<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_911151_0000950129-06-003511_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2193865</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1060466</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>747165</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>86</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950129-06-003511.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331171511
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950129-06-003511
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EMAK Worldwide, Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000911151
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-ADVERTISING AGENCIES [7311]
		IRS NUMBER:				133534145
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-23346
		FILM NUMBER:		06729995

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6330 SAN VICENTE BLVD
		CITY:			LOS ANGELES
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			90048
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3239324300

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6330 SAN VICENTE BLVD
		CITY:			LOS ANGELES
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			90048

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EMAK WORLDWIDE INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20040930

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EQUITY MARKETING INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19930824

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 IgKgQqVQgABoumzDkDceAB5anqUroEkNAaj4H/0kH/n41uWiVY1A2opKyXxZhUxs
 CRqcXP8QFNCZ3biLDaBr6Q==

 0000950129-06-003511.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 v19133e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

(Mark One)

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005

OR 

For the transition period from                                             to                                            

Commission File Number 0-23346 

EMAK WORLDWIDE, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware 

13-3534145  

(State of or other jurisdiction of 
incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. employer identification No.) 

6330 SAN VICENTE BLVD. 
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA 90048  
(Address of principal executive offices)

(323) 932-4300  
(Registrant s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:

Title of each Class 

Name of each exchange on which registered  

None

None 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, $0.001 par value 

(Title of class) 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer    

Accelerated filer    

Non-accelerated filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act). Yes     No    

As of June 30, 2005, the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity
held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $37,196,000.

Number of shares outstanding of registrant s common stock, $.001 par value,
as of March 29,
2006: 5,836,609 shares

Documents Incorporated by Reference: Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy Statement
relating to registrant s 2006 annual meeting of stockholders are incorporated by reference
into Part III of this Form 10-K.

EMAK WORLDWIDE, INC. 

INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K 
FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  
  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005  

ITEMS IN FORM 10-K  

Page  

Part I  

Item 1. Business 

2 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

7 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

10 

Item 2. Properties 

10 

Item 3. Legal Proceedings 

10 

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

10 

Part II  

Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

10 

Item 6. Selected Financial Data 

11 

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operation 

12 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

29 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

31 

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure 

60 

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 

60 

Item 9B. Other Information 

60 

Part III  

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

60 

Item 11. Executive Compensation 

60 

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

60 

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

61 

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

61 

Part IV  

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

61 

EXHIBIT 10.5    
     EXHIBIT 10.6    
     EXHIBIT 10.7    
     EXHIBIT 10.8    
     EXHIBIT 10.9    
     EXHIBIT 21    
     EXHIBIT 23    
     EXHIBIT 31.1    
     EXHIBIT 31.2    
     EXHIBIT 32.1    
     EXHIBIT 32.2    

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain expectations and projections regarding the future performance of EMAK Worldwide, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), discussed in this document are forward-looking and are
made under the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. These expectations and projections are based on currently available competitive,
financial and economic data along with the Company s operating plans and are subject to future
events and uncertainties. Readers should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date made. Actual results could vary materially from
those anticipated for a variety of reasons. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly
release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements which may be made to
reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of
unanticipated events. Readers are advised to review  Risk Factors. 

1

Table of Contents   

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

($000 s omitted, except share and per share amounts)

Except as expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, as used herein,
 EMAK,  the  Company,   we,   our,  or  us,  means EMAK Worldwide, Inc., a Delaware
corporation and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar amounts
herein are expressed in thousands. 

Overview 

EMAK is a leading global integrated marketing services company. We focus on the design and
execution of strategy-based marketing programs providing measurable results for our clients.
EMAK has expertise in the areas of: strategic planning and research, entertainment marketing,
design and manufacturing of custom promotional products, promotion, event marketing,
collaborative marketing, retail design and environmental branding. EMAK is headquartered in
Los Angeles, with operations in Chicago, Ontario (California), Frankfurt, London, Paris, the
Netherlands, Hong Kong and Shanghai.

We are a client-driven global organization serving as a strategic marketing partner for our
clients by recommending, executing and measuring a broad range of fully integrated
brand-building and sales-building programs that may or may not be promotional product-based.
We strive:

To properly position our agencies for relevance with our clients; 

To leverage the expertise of our employees; 

To consistently drive sustainable growth; and 

To effectively manage our operating expenses. 

We provide our clients with access to a broad range of intellectual properties from the worlds
of entertainment, music and sports. We maintain an infrastructure that can deliver unique,
high-quality and cost-effective products and services in a very tight time frame, with
stringent quality control.

We also develop and market consumer products, based on emerging and evergreen licensed
properties, which are sold through mass-market and specialty retailers.

Our History and Vision 

Over the last five years we acquired five agencies in pursuit of a strategy to diversify and
grow our Marketing Services skills and client base. Our acquisitions included:

In July 2001, EMAK acquired Logistix (U.K.), gaining a presence in Europe with broad-based
strategic client relationships, including research, new concept development, licensing
guidance and the development of premium-based promotions. 

In July 2002, EMAK acquired Upshot, a strategic marketing agency with expertise in
promotional, event and collaborative marketing, retail design and environmental
branding, providing us with a broader range of services. 

In September 2003, EMAK acquired SCI Promotion, a provider of gift-with-purchase
and purchase-with-purchase promotional programs to the retail department store
industry. 

In February 2004, EMAK acquired Johnson Grossfield, expanding our client base in
the Quick Service Restaurant category with the addition of the kids marketing program
of Subway Restaurants. 

In November 2004, EMAK acquired Megaprint Group, a pan-European provider of
innovative paper and board engineered (2-D) premiums, providing a complementary
service offering and expanding our client roster and geographic presence. 

While these acquired agencies leveraged our infrastructure, added new clients and
complementary service offerings, and offered new channels of
distribution or territories, as
reflected in the non-cash goodwill and other intangibles impairment charges of $30,970 we
recorded at December 31, 2005, our historical efforts at integration met with limited success.

As we move forward, our focus for 2006 and beyond is the true integration and organic growth
of our family of agencies in order to optimize the sharing of intellectual assets and the
leveraging of our infrastructure. We expect spending on marketing services to

2

Table of Contents   

outpace that of traditional advertising for the foreseeable future. We are working to position our agencies
to take advantage of this trend and to drive long-term growth in our business over the next
several years at rates that exceed the averages of traditional advertising businesses.

Business Segments 

Our
business is currently classified into two reportable business segments, namely Marketing Services and
Consumer Products. These business segments have been defined in a manner consistent with EMAK s
current organizational structure, internal reporting, allocation of
resources and operational
decision-making.

Our Marketing Services revenues for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 were $189,261,
$211,526 and $197,182, or 86%, 89% and 88% of total revenues, respectively. Our Consumer Products
revenues for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 were $29,852, $25,135 and $26,215, or
14%, 11% and 12% of total revenues, respectively.

A single client, Burger King, accounted for approximately 58%, 51% and 52% of our total revenues
for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively.

Marketing Services 

Our largest Marketing Services offering is the design and implementation of fully-integrated
promotional marketing programs which incorporate products used as free premiums or sold in
conjunction with the purchase of other products at retail. We also
create non-premium-based
integrated marketing programs that build brands and influence consumer behavior through
promotional, event and collaborative marketing, as well as retail and environmental design.

Premium-based promotions are used by both the companies sponsoring the promotions, typically
our clients, and the licensors of the entertainment, music or sports properties on which the
promotional products are based. The use of promotional products based upon entertainment,
music or sports properties allows promotional sponsors to draw upon the popular identity
developed by the intellectual property through exposure in various media such as television
programs, motion pictures and publishing. Promotions are designed to benefit sponsors by
generating consumer interest, loyalty, building market share and enhancing the sponsor s image
as a provider of value-added products and services. In addition, motion picture and
television studios and other licensors often incorporate such promotions into their own
marketing plans because of the substantial advertising expenditures made by sponsors of
promotions and because the broad exposure of the licensed property to consumers in the
sponsor s retail outlets supplements the marketing of motion pictures, television programs and
other intellectual property such as sports leagues and music labels.

Licenses for characters upon which our programs are based are generally obtained directly by
our clients (often with our assistance) from licensors, including Warner Bros., Universal
Studios, Nickelodeon, DreamWorks SKG, The Walt Disney Company, Sony Pictures Entertainment and
Twentieth Century Fox. Such licenses are typically specific to the promotional campaign and
generally do not extend beyond the end of the promotional campaign.

We perform a wide range of creative, design, development, production and fulfillment services
for our clients, including:

assisting clients in understanding the consumer through creative research and planning; 

assisting clients with promotional strategy, calendar
planning and concept development; 

evaluating intellectual properties for which licenses are available; 

advising clients as to which licenses are consistent with their marketing objectives; 

assisting clients in procuring licenses; 

proposing specific product and non-product based promotions often utilizing the properties secured by our clients; 

developing promotional concepts and designs based on the property; 

providing the development and engineering necessary to translate the property,
which often consists of two-dimensional artwork, into finished products; 

obtaining or coordinating licensor approval of product designs, prototypes and finished products; 

contracting for and supervising the manufacture of products; 

arranging for safety testing to customer and regulatory specifications by independent testing laboratories; 

arranging insurance, customs clearance and, in most instances, the shipping of finished products to the client; 

3

Table of Contents   

providing warehousing, fulfillment and billing services; 

providing creative services for packaging and point-of-sale advertising; 

developing experiential marketing campaigns to allow target
consumers to directly experience our clients  brands; 

using the internet to complement promotional programs being
conducted in the  physical world;  

developing collaborative marketing programs between retailers and manufacturers; and 

creating three dimensional environments to influence consumers  purchasing behavior
including environmental planning, store design, space planning and visual
merchandising. 

In some instances, customers obtain license rights or develop promotions concepts
independently and engage us only to design and produce specific products and services. More
often, we provide the full range of our services.

EMAK pursues promotions opportunities worldwide. Our international promotions often include
unique products and promotional programs tailored to local markets as well as the use of
program elements from promotions originally run in the United States. A number of our clients
are now running promotions globally a trend we believe will accelerate in the future.

Consumer Products 

EMAK s Consumer Products business designs, contract manufactures and markets toys and other
consumer products for sale to major mass market retailers, specialty market retailers and
various international distributors. Our products are primarily based upon trademarks,
characters and other intellectual properties we license from major entertainment companies.
In some cases, our products are based on the same licensed properties used by our Marketing
Services division.

In accordance with a planned wind down, during 2005 we significantly scaled back our Consumer
Products business. As the result of either negotiated terminations or scheduled expirations,
the majority of our licenses expired at the end of 2005, including Scooby-Doo  , Ace
Lightening, Disney s Kim Possible  , Jim Henson s Bear in the Big Blue
House  , The Powerpuff Girls  , Samurai Jack , and Codename: Kids Next
Door . Based upon the current economics of the toy
industry, we do not anticipate making continued investments in the Consumer Products business
because of its unfavorable economics and because it no longer complements our core marketing
services offerings.

The table below provides a summary of our current portfolio of licensed properties, including
the names of the licensed property and the licensor, the dates on which the license was
originally granted, when the first products were marketed under the license, the expiration
date of the current license term, the product categories covered by the license and the
geographic territories in which the licensed product can be distributed.

Property  
       
      Licensor  
       
      Grant Date  
       
      Market Date  
       
      Exp. Date  
       
      Categories  
       
      Territory  

Robot Wars   

BBC Worldwide 
       
     Jul 2000 
       
     Sep 2000 
       
     Dec 2006 
       
     Pullback, radio 
       
     United Kingdom and 

control and die 
       
     Ireland 

cast toys and 

playsets. 

Ultimate Book of Spells

BKN Consumer 
       
     Jan 2002 
       
     Sep 2002 
       
     Dec 2006 
       
     Plastic figurines 
       
     United Kingdom and 

Products 

and playsets. 
       
     Ireland 

Crayola   

Binney   Smith 
       
     May 2002 
       
     Aug 2002 
       
     Dec 2008 
       
     Bath toys, 
       
     North America and 

activities and art 
       
     Europe 

sets. 

JoJo s Circus 

Disney Consumer 
       
     Dec 2003 
       
     Jan 2005 
       
     Dec 2007 
       
     Pre-school toys, 
       
     United States 

Products 

plush, playsets and 

musical toys. 

Baby Einstein 

The Baby Einstein 
       
     Feb 2003 
       
     Jan 2004 
       
     June 2006 
       
     Puppets, plush, 
       
     United States and 

Company, LLC 

activity and infant/ 
       
     Canada 

(a Disney subsidiary) 

pre-school toys. 

Backlog 

Order backlog at March 28, 2005 and March 29, 2006 was approximately $150,000 and $110,000,
respectively. The Company expects the 2006 order backlog to be filled by December 31, 2006.
The reduced backlog is partially attributable to the wind down of Johnson Grossfield and Pop Rocket.
In addition, the 2005 backlog included a large promotional program tied to Lacasfilm's Star Wars 
movies.

4

Table of Contents   

Manufacturing 

Our products are manufactured according to EMAK and customer specifications by unaffiliated
contract manufacturers, primarily in China. Our Hong Kong staff manages the production of our
products by our contract manufacturers and performs or procures product sourcing, product
engineering, quality control inspections, independent safety testing and export/import
documentation. We believe that the presence of a dedicated staff in Hong Kong results in
lower net costs, increased ability to respond rapidly to customer orders and maintenance of
more effective quality control standards. EMAK products are also manufactured by third
parties in the United States and Europe.

We
generally retain, either for ourselves or on behalf of our clients, ownership of the molds
and tooling required for the manufacture of our products. We are not a party to any long-term
contractual arrangements with any manufacturer.

During 2005, approximately 93% of our products were manufactured in China. China currently
enjoys permanent normal trade relations ( NTR ) status under US tariff laws, which provides a
favorable category of US import duties. China s NTR status became permanent on January 1,
2002, following enactment of a bill authorizing such status upon China s accession to the
World Trade Organization ( WTO ), which occurred in December 2001. Membership in the WTO
substantially reduces the possibility of China losing its NTR status, which would result in
increased manufacturing costs for us and those of our competitors sourcing products in China.

Virtually all of the raw materials used in our products are available from numerous suppliers.
Our contract manufacturers generally do not have long-term supply contracts in place with
their raw materials suppliers. Accordingly, we are subject to variations in the prices we pay
to manufacturers for products, depending on what they pay for raw materials. An increase in
the cost of raw materials, such as petroleum, could result in price increases which EMAK may
not be able to fully pass on to customers. Any such increase could negatively impact our
business, financial condition or results of operations.

Trademarks and Copyrights 

We do not typically own trademarks or copyrights on properties on which most of our products
are based. These rights are owned or controlled by the creator of the property or by the
entity which licenses its intellectual property rights, such as a motion picture or television
producer.

Competition 

Both our Marketing Services and Consumer Products businesses operate in highly competitive
domestic and international markets.

In our core domestic Marketing Services business, EMAK competes with subsidiaries of The
Interpublic Group of Companies (including Draft Worldwide, The Zipatoni Company, Momentum and
Marketing Drive Worldwide), Arc Worldwide (a subsidiary of Publicis Groupe), 141 Worldwide (a
subsidiary WPP), Marketing Store Worldwide, Creata Promotion and Wunderman (a subsidiary of
WPP). Competition in the international promotions industry includes the companies listed
above as well as local companies in each market. We believe the principal competitive factors
affecting our Marketing Services business are the development of client marketing and
promotional strategies, unique consumer insights, creative execution, license selection,
price, product and service quality and safety and speed of production.

Our Consumer Products competitors include companies which have far more extensive sales and
development staffs and significantly greater financial resources than EMAK. Our principal
competitors are mid-sized toy companies like Playmates Holdings Limited, Play Along, Inc. and
JAKKS Pacific, Inc. However, the toy industry includes major toy and game manufacturers such
as Hasbro, Inc. and Mattel, Inc. that compete in some of the same product categories as EMAK.
We believe the principal competitive factors affecting our Consumer Products business are
license selection, price, product quality, distribution and play value.

Government Regulation 

In the United States, our business is subject to the provisions of the Consumer Product Safety
Act and the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, and may also be subject to the requirements of
the Flammable Fabrics Act or the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act, and the regulations promulgated
pursuant to such statutes. The Consumer Product Safety Act and the Federal Hazardous
Substances Act empower the Consumer Product Safety Commission to protect the public against
unreasonable risks of injury associated with promotional and consumer products, including toys
and other articles. The Consumer Product Safety Commission has the authority to exclude from
the market articles which are found to be hazardous and can require a manufacturer to repair
or repurchase such toys under certain circumstances. Any such determination by the Consumer
Product Safety Commission is subject to court review. Violations of the Acts may also result in civil and criminal
penalties. Similar laws exist in some states and cities in the United States and in many
jurisdictions throughout the world.

5

Table of Contents   

We perform quality control procedures (including the inspection of goods at factories and the
retention of independent testing laboratories) to ensure compliance with applicable product
safety requirements, both domestically and internationally. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
there can be no assurance that all of our products are or will be hazard-free. A product
recall could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
condition and could also negatively affect EMAK s reputation and the sales of our other
products.

Employees 

As of December 31, 2005, EMAK employed a total of 383 individuals, including 268 individuals
located in the United States, 60 individuals located in Europe and 55 individuals in Asia. In
addition, we utilize freelance artists and other temporary staff on an ongoing basis in order
to serve our clients needs. We believe that our relations with our employees are good.

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following persons are the executive officers of EMAK as of the date of this report. Such
executive officers are appointed annually by our Board of Directors and serve at the pleasure
of the Board. The table below provides information with respect to our executive officers:

Name  
       
      Age  
       
      Position  

James L. Holbrook, Jr.

46 

Chief Executive Officer 

Teresa L. Tormey

41 

Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel 

Jonathan Kramer

54 

Group President, Logistix Worldwide 

Emily Shannon Brown

41 

Sr. Vice President, Worldwide Operations 

James L. Holbrook, Jr.  joined EMAK in November 2005 and is currently our Chief Executive
Officer and a member of our Board of Directors. Prior to joining EMAK, Mr. Holbrook was
President and CEO for a portfolio of agencies at the Interpublic Group, one of the world s
largest advertising and marketing holding companies. From 1996 to 2004, Mr. Holbrook was CEO
and part-owner of Zipatoni, a marketing agency, which was sold to Interpublic in 2001. From
1984 to 1996 he held various sales and marketing posts with Ralston Purina Co. and from 1981
to 1984 was in brand management at Procter   Gamble. Mr. Holbrook has a master of business
administration from Washington University and a bachelor of science in economics and
philosophy from Vanderbilt University.

Teresa L. Tormey  joined EMAK in November 2002 and is currently our Chief Administrative
Officer and General Counsel, as well as our corporate Secretary. Ms. Tormey was promoted to
her current position in February 2006. Ms. Tormey joined EMAK in November 2002 as Senior Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary and was later promoted to Executive Vice President in
April 2004. Ms. Tormey is responsible for the supervision of the Company s centralized corporate
departments, including business affairs, corporate product integrity, human resources,
information technology, investor relations and office administration.
Ms. Tormey is also responsible
for our global regulatory compliance, board administration and corporate governance functions.
Ms. Tormey was previously in private law practice as a partner in the corporate finance and
transactions group of Oppenheimer Wolff   Donnelly LLP.
Ms. Tormey holds a bachelor of arts degree
in economics from the University of California at Davis and a juris doctor from Pepperdine
University School of Law.

Jonathan Kramer  joined EMAK in June 2005 as Group President and currently leads EMAK s
Logistix, Pop Rocket and SCI Promotion agencies under the Logistix Worldwide banner. Before
joining EMAK, Mr. Kramer was CEO of the J. Brown Agency, a joint venture formed between Grey
Global Group and Crossmark      to combine their respective marketing and promotion
solutions with in-store sales and merchandising execution to build sales for fast-moving
consumer goods clients. From 1994 to 2003, Mr. Kramer was CEO of the J. Brown/LMC Group, a division
of Grey Global. Prior to J.Brown/LMC Group, Mr. Kramer was Executive Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer of Local Marketing Corporation, which was sold to Grey Global in 1989 under
his management. Mr. Kramer holds a bachelor of arts degree from New York University.

Emily Shannon Brown  joined EMAK in 1995 and has risen over the past decade through EMAK s
product development, operations and client services organization.
Since September 2004, Ms. Brown
has served as Chief Operating Officer for the Equity Marketing subsidiary, responsible for
client handling, operational processing and financial management of the Burger King account.
In February 2006, Ms. Brown was promoted to the additional role of SVP, Worldwide Operations.
Prior to joining EMAK, Ms. Brown was General Manager for EPI Marketing, a marketing firm which
delivered sponsorships and partnerships, promotional marketing, and premiums to corporate
clients, as well as operated a retail toy and gift business. Prior to EPI, Ms. Brown held
marketing, operational and business management posts in the publishing and apparel industries,
including Van Dam Publishing, Beth Schaeffer Design, and Tracy Mills Inc.

6

Table of Contents   

Available Information 

Our
website address is  www.emak.com . EMAK makes available, free of charge, on or through this
website our periodic and current reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d)
of the Securities Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed
with or furnished to the SEC. Information contained on our website is not part of this
report.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors 

Set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission are important risks and uncertainties that could cause our
actual results of operation, business and financial condition to differ materially from the
results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. 

We Depend Significantly on One Key Customer 

Our success is partly dependent on a single customer, Burger King (including its franchise
purchasing cooperative Restaurant Services, Inc. ( RSI ) and various distribution companies), which accounted for
approximately 58%, 51% and 52% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and
2005, respectively. The termination or a significant reduction by Burger King of its business
with us would adversely affect our business. We have domestic and international agreements
with Burger King and RSI which guarantee that we will retain our role as the primary creative
and manufacturing agency of record for both domestic and international Burger King premiums
programs awarded through September 2006 (shipping through approximately September 2007). Our
long-term agreements provide for bi-annual determinations of our guaranteed level of Burger
King premiums business. The Burger King business is subject to significant year-to-year
variability. For instance, the revenues generated by our business with Burger King decreased
from $126,791 in 2003 to $120,606 in 2004 and to $117,257 in 2005. We
expect a further decrease in
sales to Burger King in 2006 due primarily to Burger King s existing level of filler inventory
(maintained to service non-core promotion windows), as well as the lack of currently
anticipated  blockbuster  core promotions. The success of our business with Burger King is also
partially dependent on the overall success of the Burger King system, whose sales could be
negatively impacted by such factors as increased competition and product recalls.

We Face Credit Risk 

We regularly extend credit to distribution companies in connection with our business with the
Burger King system, which includes Supply Chain Services, LLC
( SCS ), which is a subsidiary of RSI. We began selling product to SCS in October 2003. Sales to SCS
represented 84.8% of our sales to the Burger King System in 2005. Failure by SCS to honor
their payment obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our operations.
Because of SCS s established credit history with us, we do not believe that the concentration
of receivables has a negative impact to our overall credit risk. We occasionally provide SCS
with extended payment terms of up to 60 days. We also extend credit to several retailers in
connection with various promotional programs as well as with our Consumer Products business.
The mass market retail channel has experienced significant shifts in market share among
competitors in recent years, causing some large retailers to experience liquidity problems.
Failure by one or more of these retailers to honor their payment obligations to us could have
a material adverse effect on our business.

We Rely on the Continued Development of New Promotional Programs 

A large portion of our revenues come from a relatively limited number of promotional programs
which are in effect for only a limited period of time and generally are not repeated. We must
continually develop and sell new products and services for utilization in new promotional
programs as part of our clients  annual promotions calendars. There can be no assurance that
we or our customers will be able to secure licenses for additional entertainment properties on
which to base our promotional programs or that, if secured, such licenses will result in
successful products.

The Success of Our Products Depends on the Popularity of Licensed Materials 

Our promotional products are typically based on entertainment properties, such as characters
from current motion pictures or television programs. The success of these products largely
depends on the popularity of the entertainment properties on which they are based. Each
motion picture and television program is an individual artistic work, and its commercial
success is dependent on unpredictable consumer preferences. Our results of operations may be
adversely affected if the entertainment properties upon which our products are based turn out
to be less popular than we anticipate. Also, delays in the release of motion pictures or
television programs could result in delays or cancellations of our promotions.

7

Table of Contents   

Our Future Operating Results are Difficult to Predict 

We experience significant quarter-to-quarter variability in our revenues and net income
(loss). The promotions business tends to include larger promotions in the summer and during
the winter holiday season. Major movie and television release schedules also vary
year-to-year, influencing the promotional schedules of our customers, as well as the
particular promotions for which we are retained. The motion picture or television characters
on which the promotions business is often based may only be popular for short periods of time
or not at all. There may not be comparable popular characters or similar promotional
campaigns in the future. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter
comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It
is likely that in some future quarter our operating results may fall below the expectations of
securities analysts and investors.

There Are Risks Associated with Acquisitions 

If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may make investments in complementary
companies. The anticipated benefits of any acquisitions or investment may not be realized.
If we buy a company, we could have difficulty in assimilating that company s personnel and
operations. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for
us. If we make other types of acquisitions, we could have difficulty in assimilating the
acquired technology or products into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our
ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Future
acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the
incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to goodwill
and other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations and
financial condition.

Our Current Licenses Require Us to Pay Minimum Royalties 

Sales of products under trademarks or trade or brand names licensed from others account for
substantially all of our Consumer Products revenues. Product licenses allow us to capitalize
on characters, designs, concepts and inventions owned by others or developed by toy inventors
and designers. Our license agreements generally require us to make specified minimum royalty
payments, even if we fail to sell a sufficient number of units to cover these amounts. In
connection with our decision to wind down most of our Consumer Products business, we took a
pre-tax charge at December 31, 2004 of $7,722 related to minimum royalty guarantee shortfalls
on several licenses. Approximately $3,000 of this pre-tax charge was non-cash for write-offs
of long-term royalty advances. In 2005, we reached a settlement with one of our licensors
affecting several licenses. As a result $2,837 of the 2004 charge for minimum royalty
guarantee shortfalls was reversed in 2005.

Our Business is Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and to Potential Product Liability
Claims 

Our business is subject to the provisions of, among other laws, the Federal Consumer Products
Safety Act and the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, and rules and regulations promulgated
under these acts. These statutes are administered by the Consumer Product Safety Commission
( CPSC ) which has the authority to remove from the market products that are found to be
defective and present a substantial hazard or risk of serious injury or death. The CPSC can
require a manufacturer to recall, repair, or replace these products under certain
circumstances. We cannot assure that defects in our products will not be alleged or found.
Products that we develop or sell may expose us to liability from claims by users of such
products for damages including, but not limited to, bodily injury or property damage. We
currently maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are
adequate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such coverage or obtain
additional coverage on acceptable terms in the future, or that such insurance will provide
adequate coverage against all potential claims. Products that we develop or sell may also
expose us to liability for the costs related to product recalls. These costs can include
legal expenses, advertising, collection and destruction of product, and free goods. Our
product liability insurance coverage generally excludes such costs and damages resulting from
product recall.

Our Markets Are Highly Competitive 

The markets in which our businesses operate are highly competitive. Our competitors, and in
many cases their parent companies, include companies which have far more extensive sales and
development staffs and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we
do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against such
companies.

We Rely on Foreign Manufacturers 

During 2005, approximately 93% of our products were manufactured in China. Foreign
manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including transportation delays and
interruptions, political and economic disruptions, the imposition of tariffs, quotas and other
import or export controls, and changes in governmental policies. In addition, past outbreaks
of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ( SARS ) have been significantly concentrated in Asia,
particularly in Hong Kong and in the Guangdong province of China, where many of our contract
manufacturers are located. The development and manufacture of our products could suffer if a
significant

8

Table of Contents   

number of our employees in Hong Kong or the employees of our contract manufacturers in China
contract SARS or other communicable diseases, or are otherwise unable to fulfill their
responsibilities.

We do not have long-term contracts with our foreign manufacturers. Although we believe we
could secure other third-party manufacturers to produce our products, our operations could be
adversely affected if we lost our relationship with several of our current foreign
manufacturers.

Virtually all of the raw materials used in our products are available to our contract manufacturers
from numerous suppliers. Our manufacturers do not have long-term supply contracts in place with
their raw materials suppliers. Accordingly, we are subject to variations in the prices we pay to
our manufacturers for products, depending on what they pay for their raw materials. An increase in
the cost of raw materials, such as petroleum, could result in price increases which we may not be
able to fully pass on to our customers. Any such increase could negatively impact our business,
financial condition or results of operations.

We Face Foreign Currency Risk 

As part of our business, we enter into contracts for the purchase and sale of products with
entities in foreign countries. While the vast majority of our contracts are denominated in
U.S. dollars, significant fluctuations in the local currencies of the entities with which we
transact business may adversely affect these entities  abilities to fulfill their obligations
under their contracts.

Logistix
(U.K.) enters into contracts denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, GBP and Euros. Although
we attempt to reduce its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates through the
use of certain hedging techniques, changes in such exchange rates may result in changes in the
value of our commitments and anticipated foreign currency cash flows.

We May Issue Preferred Stock 

Our Board of Directors has authority to issue up to one million shares of preferred stock, and
to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any
further vote or action by our stockholders. The potential issuance of preferred stock may
have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and may discourage
bids for the Common Stock at a premium over the market price of the Common Stock and may
adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of, the holders of
Common Stock. The outstanding Series AA Stock is senior to any class of preferred stock which
might be authorized by the Board of Directors in the future.

Anti-Takeover Provisions under Our Charter Documents Could Delay or Prevent a Change of
Control and Could also Limit the Market Price of Our Stock 

Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and our bylaws, as amended, contain provisions
that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of
directors that our shareholders might consider favorable, including provisions authorizing the
board of directors to issue preferred stock and requiring advance notice for nominations for
election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon by shareholders
at meeting of our shareholders.

On March 15, 2006, our Board of Directors announced that it approved the adoption of a stockholder
rights plan (the  Rights Plan ) under which all stockholders of record as of March 26, 2006 received rights to purchase
shares of a new series of preferred stock. The Rights Plan will expire unless stockholders approve
its continuation at our 2008 annual meeting.

The Rights Plan is designed to enable all of the Company s stockholders to realize the full value
of their investment and to provide for fair and equal treatment for all stockholders in the event
that an unsolicited attempt is made to acquire the Company, and is intended as a means to guard
against abusive takeover tactics. The Rights Plan requires the Board to call a special meeting of
stockholders to consider the redemption of the Rights Plan if a third party commences an all-cash
tender offer which meets certain criteria specified in the Rights Plan.

The rights
were distributed as a non-taxable dividend. The rights will be exercisable only if a
person or group acquires 10% or more of the Company s Common Stock or announces a tender offer for
10% or more of the Common Stock. If a person or group acquires 10% or
more of the Company s Common
Stock, all rights holders except the buyer will be entitled to
acquire the Company s Common Stock
at a discount. The intended effect will be to prevent acquisitions of more than 10% of the
Company s Common Stock without first negotiating with the Board. Existing stockholders of the
Company who currently own more than 10% of the Common Stock are exempted from the terms of the
Rights Plan unless and until any of them acquires additional shares of the common stock after March
15, 2006.

The rights
will trade with EMAK  s Common Stock, unless and until they are separated upon the
occurrence of certain future events. The Board of Directors may terminate the Rights Plan or
redeem the rights at any time prior to the time the rights are triggered.

9

Table of Contents   

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 

Our corporate headquarters consists of approximately 42,000 square feet of space in Los
Angeles, California under a lease which expires December 31, 2009. We also lease an
approximately 36,000 square foot warehouse in Indianapolis, Indiana under a lease which
expires July 31, 2010. In Hong Kong, we occupy approximately 10,000 square feet of space in
Kowloon, under a lease which expires August 31, 2008. Logistix and Megaprint Group occupy
approximately 7,400 square feet and 1,900 square feet of leased space in Gerrards Cross
outside of London under leases that expire September 20, 2014 and September 19, 2011,
respectively, approximately 2,200 square feet of leased space in Paris under a lease that
expires January 31, 2013, and approximately 2,500 feet of space in Haarlem, the Netherlands
under a lease which expires November 30, 2006. Upshot occupies approximately 30,000 square
feet of leased space in Chicago, Illinois under a lease that expires March 31, 2009. SCI
Promotion occupies approximately 41,000 square feet of office and warehouse space in Ontario,
California under a lease which expires October 31, 2007. We are currently seeking a subtenant
for the Ontario, California facility which we plan to exit in the second quarter of 2006.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

EMAK is involved in various legal proceedings generally incidental to our business. While the
result of any litigation contains an element of uncertainty, management presently believes
that the outcome of any known, pending or threatened legal proceeding or claim, individually
or combined, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of our
fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.

PART II 

ITEM 5.  
       
      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

Market for the Registrant s Stock 

Our Common Stock is traded on The Nasdaq National Stock Market under
the symbol EMAK. On
March 28, 2006 there were approximately 800 beneficial holders of our Common Stock.

We currently have no plans to pay dividends on our Common Stock. We intend to retain all
earnings for use in our business. Under EMAK s current credit facility, we cannot pay
dividends on our Common Stock without the prior consent of the lender. (See Note 6 of the
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

The high and low Common Stock prices per share were as follows:

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

In
July 2002, EMAK s Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program of up to
$10,000. Through December 31, 2004, EMAK repurchased 267,650 shares at a cost of $3,505
pursuant to this program. No shares were repurchased during the year ended December 31, 2005.
On March 27, 2006, our Board of Directors adopted a resolution terminating the repurchase
program, as we are not planning on making any further stock repurchases.

10

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

The selected consolidated financial data presented below have been derived from EMAK s audited
consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the related notes
thereto and  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operation. 

11

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7.  
       
      MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION  

Overview 

Revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 decreased $13,264 (5.6%) to $223,397 as
compared to $236,661 recorded in the prior year as a result of a 6.8% decrease in revenues in our
Marketing Services segment partially offset by a 4.3% increase in Consumer Products revenues. The
decrease in Marketing Services revenues is primarily attributable to
our Logistix (U.K.) agency,
which experienced a considerable decline in revenues from 2004. The agency won an exceptionally
high percentage of promotional programs from its largest client in 2004, and experienced a lower
win rate this year compared to the prior year. In addition, the decline in revenues is
attributable to reduced revenues from certain low-margin logistical services that we decided not to
pursue this year. These low-margin services accounted for $12,334 of the decrease in revenues.
Despite the decrease in revenues, a significantly improved gross margin percentage resulted in
higher gross margin dollars than in 2004. Gross profit in the Marketing Services segment increased
from the prior year due to an increase in higher-margin, fee-based service revenues in 2005 as
compared to 2004. Gross profit in the Consumer Products improved as a result of a partial reversal
of minimum royalty guarantee shortfall accruals that were recorded in 2004.

We recorded a net loss of $39,872 for twelve months ended December 31, 2005 compared to a net loss
of $9,684 in the prior year. The higher net loss during the current period was attributable to the
following factors:

Non-cash impairment charges totaling $30,970 for the write-off of goodwill and other
intangibles attributable to the following agencies: 

Johnson Grossfield  We recorded an impairment charge of $3,431 in the third quarter of
2005 as a result of the loss of that agency s primary client in August 2005. As a result of
this loss, we decided to close the Johnson Grossfield office. 

Logistix (U.K.)  Throughout 2004, our U.K.-based Logistix agency won all of its
largest client s pan-European programs. The agency did not repeat this win rate in 2005.
Additionally, this client has reduced the number and size of its promotional programs in
Europe. Based on our most recent projections, which were formulated in the fourth quarter of
2005, we believe this pattern will continue, and as a result, we incurred a goodwill
impairment charge of $16,701 in the fourth quarter of 2005 in connection with the annual
impairment test required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 142
 Goodwill and Other Intangibles (see  Acquisitions and Impairment of Assets  below and Note 3
in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). As a result of the decreased
revenues, we have reduced staffing levels at our Logistix offices in the U.K. and Europe. 

SCI Promotion  SCI Promotion s revenues grew in 2005 compared to 2004, but its
margins were impacted by its changing client base. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we
incurred a goodwill impairment charge of $10,838 in connection with the annual impairment
test required by SFAS No. 142 (see  Acquisitions and Impairment of Assets  below and Note 3
in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). This charge is based on our most
recent projections, which were formulated in the fourth quarter of 2005. Our projections
were negatively impacted by the department store consolidation, and its industry-specific
challenges which have resulted in smaller marketing budgets, fewer programs and smaller
program sizes. Competitive pressures and materials cost increases in Asia have also
compressed margins. As a result of the recent trends in this business we have decided to
consolidate SCI Promotion s offices with our Los Angeles office. These actions will result
in the reduction of SCI Promotion s future annual operating expenses by 40%. 

Restructuring charges totaling $2,952 related to the wind down of our Consumer Products
business, the reorganization of our SCI Promotion agency, staff reductions at Logistix (U.K.),
the closure of the Johnson Grossfield office in Minneapolis and the elimination of several
executive management positions. The costs related to the restructuring charges, however,
were partially offset by a gain of $2,837 for the reversal of a portion of a charge taken
in the fourth quarter of 2004 for minimum royalty guarantee shortfalls on several consumer
products licenses. The reversal is due to a negotiated settlement with a licensor and due
to better than anticipated performance of the Scooby-Doo TM  toy line. 

12

Table of Contents   

We incurred costs totaling $1,350 in the second quarter of 2005 related to the severance
of our former CEO. 

As a result of recent tax losses, we established a valuation allowance of $8,658 against
previously recorded deferred tax assets related to our U.S. operations. As a result, we
had a net tax provision of $8,153 despite losses before taxes. 

Despite these negative items in 2005, we continued to experience positive trends at Equity
Marketing and Upshot in our Marketing Services segment:

Our Equity Marketing agency performed well during the year, despite a decrease in
revenues as compared to the prior year resulting from certain low-margin logistical
services that we decided not to pursue this year. During 2005, we executed eleven domestic
premium programs and seven international premium programs including three large promotional
programs tied to Lucasfilm s Star Wars    movies. During 2005, we saw the continuation of a
trend of higher unit volumes for domestic as well as international programs as continued
recent improvements in our primary client s business. We expect a decrease in
sales to this client in 2006 due primarily to the client s existing level of filler
inventory (maintained to service non-core promotion windows), as well as the lack of
currently anticipated  blockbuster  core promotions. 

The performance of our Upshot agency continues to improve as a result of significant new
business wins earlier in the year. In March 2005, Upshot was one of two agencies of record
selected for the promotional business of Miller Brewing Company. In its new role, Upshot
began providing promotional work for most of Miller s beer brand
portfolio, including
trademark brands such as Miller Lite and Miller Genuine Draft in the U.S., beginning in
April 2005. 

As we look ahead, we would characterize 2006 as a rebuilding year as we implement new
strategies:

To properly position our agencies for relevance with our clients; 

To leverage the expertise of our employees; 

To consistently drive sustainable growth; and 

To effectively manage our operating expenses. 

From a revenue standpoint, we enter 2006 without revenues from Johnson Grossfield. Additionally,
the wind down of our Consumer Products business will also have an impact to our 2006 revenues. We
have only two remaining toy lines for all of 2006, JoJo s Circus  and
Crayola   . In 2005 these two toy lines represented approximately 40% of our Consumer
Products revenues.

In 2006, we expect a slight decrease in gross profit margins for our Marketing Services segment
relative to 2005 levels.

We ve
reduced annualized overhead costs by approximately $4,800. These expense cuts are not yet
visible, but are expected to become more visible when we report our first quarter 2006 results.
Additionally, with the transition of the SCI Promotion office from Ontario to Los Angeles in the
second quarter, reductions are expected to be more visible in the third quarter of 2006 and beyond.

13

Table of Contents   

Results of Operation 

The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the Company s operating expenses as a
percentage of its total revenues:

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to year ended December 31, 2004  

Revenues 

Our consolidated revenues in 2005 decreased $13,264, or 5.6%, to $223,397 from $236,661 in 2004.
Our Marketing Services revenues decreased $14,344, or 6.8%, to $197,182 from $211,526 primarily the
result of a decline in international revenues at Logistix (U.K.) and a decline in revenues for
Johnson Grossfield due to the loss of that agency s primary client in August 2005. The decrease
was partially offset by an increase in revenues from SCI Promotion attributable to new client wins.
The results for 2005 include Johnson Grossfield (acquired February 2, 2004) and Megaprint Group
(acquired November 10, 2004). Revenues for the Equity Marketing business decreased as a result of
our decision not to pursue certain low margin logistical services. This was partially offset by an
increase in sales attributable to increased unit volumes for programs relative to 2004. Our
largest client s revenues represented 52% of total revenues in 2005 as compared to 51% in 2004.

In 2005, revenues for our Logistix (U.K.) business decreased as a
result of a reduction in the number and size of promotional programs for its largest client,
despite the addition of revenues from the Megaprint Group acquisition. The agency experienced
a lower win rate of promotional programs from its largest client as well as a scale back of
previously awarded programs. In addition, net foreign currency translation impact contributed
approximately $267 to the revenues for Logistix (U.K.) versus the prior year period average
exchange rates.

Our Consumer Products revenues increased $1,080 or 4.3%, to $26,215 from $25,135 in 2004. The
increase is primarily attributable to the introduction of Disney s JoJo s Circus  in 2005 and
continued revenue growth of Baby Einstein  and Crayola    product lines, partially offset by a
decline in sales of Scooby-Doo  product. Revenues for 2005 were primarily comprised of
Scooby-Doo , Crayola   , Baby Einstein  and JoJo s Circus  brands. In 2005, we began distributing
the first toy products based on JoJo s Circus , the popular Disney series produced in stop-motion
animation. The continued growth in our Crayola    line of bath toys was attributable to an expanded
product line and expanded distribution channels.

Cost of sales and gross profit 

Cost of sales decreased $15,561 to $164,926 (73.8% of revenues) from $180,487 (76.3% of
revenues) in 2004 due to lower sales volume in 2005. The gross profit percentage increased to
27.4% from 20.5% in 2004. This increase is primarily the result of a gain of $2,837 on the
partial reversal of a previously recorded minimum royalty guarantee shortfall charge in the
fourth quarter of 2004. The reversal is due to an agreement reached with one of our major
licensors to exit certain licenses early in exchange for a reduction in overall royalty
guarantee requirements. In 2004, we recorded a charge for minimum royalty guarantee
shortfalls of $7,722 on several Consumer Products licenses resulting from the decision to wind
down our consumer products business.

14

Table of Contents   

The gross profit in our Marketing Services business increased from 23.9% in 2004 to 26.7% in
2005. This increase is attributable to an improved sales mix, as we have been phasing out
certain low-margin logistical services for our largest client and increasing higher-margin fee-based revenues
from our Equity Marketing and Upshot agencies, partially offset by a decrease in gross margins
from our SCI Promotion agency resulting from competitive pressures and materials cost
increases in Asia.

The minimum royalty guarantee shortfalls (gain) contributed a positive impact of 1.2% to the gross
profit percent in 2005 and 3.2% negative impact to the gross profit in 2004. The gross profit
percentage in the Consumer Products segment increased from (8.2)% in 2004 to 33.1% in 2005 as a
result of the impact of the minimum royalty guarantee shortfalls (gain).

Salaries, wages and benefits 

Salaries, wages and benefits increased $3,780 in 2005, or 12.1%, to $35,090 (15.7% of
revenues) from $31,310 (13.2% of revenues). This increase was primarily attributable to costs
related to the departure of the Company s former CEO ($1,350), accruals for contractual bonuses
($1,200), annual employee merit pay increases, additional compensation expense resulting from
grants of restricted stock units, an increase in recruiting costs and the addition of
approximately 25 employees from the Megaprint Group acquisition. Of the $1,200 in contractual
bonuses, $900 (75%) was paid in cash and the remainder of $300 (25%) was paid in shares of our Common Stock. These
increases were partially offset by staffing reductions at Logistix (U.K.), SCI Promotion and
the elimination of several executive management positions.

Salaries, wages and benefits increased as a percentage of revenues from 13.2% to 15.7% as a
result of decreasing revenues. The full impact of staffing reductions which began in 2005
will not be visible until the second half of 2006.

Selling, general and administrative expenses 

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $2,019 in 2005, or 7.9%, to $23,587 (10.5%
of revenues) from $25,606 (10.8% of revenues) in 2004. The decrease is attributable to a reduction
in freight, creative development and marketing costs, partially offset by additional operating
expenses resulting from the inclusion of the Megaprint Group business in the current year and by
increased commissions resulting from higher Consumer Products revenues.

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased as a percentage of revenues from 10.8%
to 10.5% as a result of lower selling expenses which decreased at a faster rate than revenues.

Impairment of assets 

We recorded a charge for impairment of assets of $30,970 (13.9% of revenues) in 2005 compared
to $6,312 (2.7% of revenues) in 2004. The charge is the result of a reduction in the fair
value of certain reporting units due to a significant downturn in the forecasted cashflows
used in the annual impairment test required by SFAS No. 142. A charge of $16,701 relates to
Logistix (U.K.) agency whose largest client reduced the number and size of its promotional
programs. A charge of $10,838 relates to SCI Promotion, which includes the business of USI
(acquired in 1998). SCI Promotions s retail department store clients are coping with industry
consolidation and poor performance, resulting in tighter marketing budgets and smaller, less
frequent promotional programs. A charge of $3,431 relates to the impairment of goodwill and
other intangible assets of Johnson Grossfield as a result of the loss of that agency s primary
client in August 2005. The 2004 charge relates to a write-down of goodwill resulting from the
2002 acquisition of Upshot as a result of the loss of a significant client in the fourth
quarter of 2004. See  Critical Accounting Policies   Goodwill and Other Intangibles  below.

Integration costs 

We recorded integration costs of $81 (0.0% of revenues) in 2005 compared to $174 (0.1% of
revenues) in 2004. These are primarily travel, training and consulting costs directly related
to the integration of Megaprint Group. The costs in 2004 are primarily travel costs directly
related to the integration of SCI Promotion and Johnson Grossfield.

Restructuring 

We recorded a net restructuring charge of $2,952 (1.3% of revenues) compared to $56 (0.0% of
revenues) in 2004. This charge consists primarily of severance expense and other termination
costs resulting from our decision to wind down substantially all of our Consumer Products
business, Pop Rocket, from staff reductions at Logistix (U.K.), the closure of the Johnson
Grossfield office in Minneapolis, the reorganization of the SCI Promotion agency and the
elimination of executive management positions. The costs in 2004 are associated with the
realignment of centralized resources in our Marketing Services business, partially offset by a
reversal of a portion of the 2003 restructuring charge related to the severance for workforce
reductions at Upshot.

15

Table of Contents   

Loss on lease 

We recorded a charge of $237 (0.1% of revenues) on the Logistix (U.K.) office lease due to softness
in the commercial real estate market for one of the Company s currently sublet offices in the U.K.
Our subtenant has an option to terminate the lease and current market conditions indicate that we
may incur a loss on the new sublease. This space had been sublet by Logistix in the U.K. prior to
our acquisition. As a result of the anticipated loss we are adjusting our liabilities and
incurring this charge.

In 2004, we recorded a loss on our Chicago office lease of $311. This is due to lower than
estimated sublease income for vacated office space in the Upshot business. The office space was
sublet at rates modestly below our initial estimates, due to softness in the Chicago real estate
market.

In 2005, we recorded a loss on our Los Angeles office lease of $184 for the estimated loss on the
sublease of a portion of the premises over the term of the sublease ending
December 31, 2009 (concurrent with the expiration of the master lease term).

ERP reimplementation costs 

We recorded enterprise resource planning ( ERP ) reimplementation costs of $147 (0.1% of
revenues) in 2005 compared to $59 (0.1% of revenues) in 2004. This represents consulting
costs which were not capitalized into fixed assets. The costs were incurred in connection
with a significant upgrade and reimplementation of the Company s ERP software which is
designed to enhance management information, financial reporting, inventory management, cost
evaluation and controls while assisting in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Other income (expense) 

Other income (expense) increased $824 in 2005, to $37 (0.0% of revenues) from $(787) ((0.3)%
of revenues) in 2004. Other income is composed of a gain on foreign exchange of $342, a gain
on asset disposal of $17, other income of $27 and net interest expense of $349. Net interest
expense increased $198 to $349 in 2005 from $151 in 2004 due to reduced levels of cash and
cash equivalents and increased short-term borrowings in 2004. The foreign currency
transaction gains in 2005 were primarily a result of gains on forward contracts due to the
strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the British pound. The Company s Logistix
(U.K.) subsidiary purchases the bulk of its inventories from the Far East in U.S. dollars.

Provision (benefit) for Income Taxes 

The effective tax rate changed in 2005 to (25.7)% from 41.0% in 2004. We established a
valuation allowance of $8,658 against previously recorded deferred tax assets related to our
U.S. operations. As a result, we have a tax provision despite losses before taxes.

Net loss 

Net loss increased $30,188, to $(39,872) in 2005 ((17.8)% of revenues) from $(9,684) in 2004
((4.1)% of revenues) primarily due to the impairment of assets, the restructuring charge and
increased salaries, wages and benefits. This was partially offset by an increase in gross
margins in 2005 as compared to 2004 and the gain on the reversal of a portion of the minimum
royalty guarantee shortfalls.

Year ended December 31, 2004 compared to year ended December 31, 2003  

Revenues 

Our consolidated revenues in 2004 increased $17,548, or 8.0%, to $236,661 from $219,113 in
2003. Our Marketing Services revenues increased $22,265, or 11.8%, to $211,526 from $189,261
primarily as a result of the inclusion of revenues generated by Johnson Grossfield, SCI
Promotion and Megaprint Group as well as continued growth at Logistix (U.K.). The results for
2003 include SCI Promotion from September 3, 2003 (acquired September 3, 2003) and exclude
Johnson Grossfield (acquired February 2, 2004) and Megaprint Group (acquired November 10,
2004). Growth resulting from acquisitions and Logistix (U.K.) was partially offset by a
decrease in Burger King revenues. Revenues for the Burger King business decreased as the
volume of units for domestic programs in the first half of 2004 were lower as compared to
previous years. Burger King revenues represented 51% of total revenues in 2004 as compared to
58% in 2003.

In 2004, our Logistix (U.K.) business based in the United Kingdom executed several successful
promotional programs for its largest client both domestically and internationally. In
addition, net foreign currency translation impact contributed approximately $4,553 to revenues
for Logistix (U.K.) versus the prior year period average exchange rates.

16

Table of Contents   

Excluding the impact of the SCI Promotion, Johnson Grossfield and Megaprint Group
acquisitions, and excluding the impact of net foreign currency translation, Marketing Services
revenues decreased slightly for 2004 compared to 2003.

Our Consumer Products revenues decreased $4,717 or 15.8%, to $25,135 from $29,852 in 2003.
The decrease is primarily attributable to a decline in domestic sales of Scooby-Doo  product
and a significant one-time stocking of Kim Possible  merchandise in 2003. Our Kim Possible 
line was launched in 2003 as a Wal-Mart exclusive; distribution expanded to other major
retailers beginning in January 2004. The decrease was partially offset by increased
international sales of Scooby-Doo  product, the continued growth of Crayola    branded bath
toys, and the addition of the Baby Einstein    products. Revenues for 2004 were primarily
comprised of Scooby-Doo , Crayola   , Baby Einstein  and Kim Possible  brands. In January 2004,
we began distributing the first toy products based upon Baby Einstein , the best selling brand
of videos specifically designed for infants and toddlers. We granted exclusive distribution
to Target and Babies  R  Us for 2004. The growth in our Crayola    line of bath toys, which was
launched in 2003, was attributable to an expanded product line and expanded distribution
channels. The growth in Scooby-Doo  international revenues for 2004 was attributable to the
brand receiving more exposure on television in Europe and Latin America. The growth in
international sales of Scooby-Doo  was more than offset by a decline in domestic Scooby-Doo 
sales.

Cost of sales and gross profit 

Cost of sales increased $22,370 to $180,487 (76.3% of revenues) from $158,117 (72.2% of
revenues) in 2003 due to the higher sales volume in 2004. The gross profit percentage
decreased to 20.5% from 27.8% in 2003. This decrease is primarily the result of a charge for
minimum royalty guarantee shortfalls of $7,722 on several licenses resulting from the decision
to wind down our consumer products business.

The gross profit in our Marketing Services business decreased from 26.1% in 2003 to 23.9% in
2004. This decline is attributable to the provision of lower margin logistical services as
well as a rapid rise in raw materials costs which could not be recaptured from clients due to
long order lead times.

The minimum royalty guarantee shortfalls contributed a negative impact of 3.2% to the gross profit
percent in 2004. The gross profit percentage in Consumer Products
decreased to (8.2)% from 38.6% in 2003 primarily
as a result of the impact of minimum royalty guarantee shortfalls. This decrease is
also the result of a highly competitive retail pricing environment resulting in pricing and
markdown concessions to retailers, increased costs for plastic resin resulting from higher oil
prices and a higher mix of international sales which carry lower margins. International sales,
which are sold through distributors who bear more of the risk and incur the bulk of the selling
expenses, tend to carry lower gross margins than domestic sales. The decrease in Consumer Products
margins is also partially attributable to a significant one-time stocking of high margin Kim
Possible merchandise in the second quarter of 2003.

Salaries, wages and benefits 

Salaries, wages and benefits increased $6,787 in 2004, or 27.7%, to $31,310 (13.2% of
revenues) from $24,523 in 2003 (11.2% of revenues). This increase was primarily attributable
to the addition of approximately 75 employees from the SCI Promotion, Johnson Grossfield and
Megaprint Group acquisitions as well as annual employee merit pay increases and additional
compensation expense resulting from grants of restricted stock units.

Salaries, wages and benefits increased as a percentage of revenues from 11.2% to 13.2% as a
result of revenues increasing at a lesser rate. Due to the weakness at SCI Promotion, which
was attributable to deferrals and cancellations of scheduled promotional programs, we did not
achieve the sales volume necessary to absorb the largely fixed cost structure of this
business. In addition, the reduction in Burger King unit volume in the first half of 2004,
which resulted in lower overall Burger King revenues for the year, had a significant impact on
this metric, as our staffing levels required to service this account are largely fixed.

Selling, general and administrative expenses 

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1,030 in 2004, or 4.2%, to $25,606 (10.8%
of revenues) from $24,576 (11.2% of revenues) in 2003. The increase is primarily the result of
additional operating expenses resulting from the SCI Promotion, Johnson Grossfield and Megaprint
Group acquisitions partially offset by lower selling expenses such as freight out resulting from a
change in the terms of delivery for a significant Marketing Services client.

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased as a percentage of revenues from 11.2%
to 10.8% as a result of lower selling expenses.

17

Table of Contents   

Impairment of assets 

We recorded a charge for impairment of assets of $6,312 (2.7% of revenues) in 2004. This
charge is the result of the annual goodwill and other intangible assets impairment test
required by SFAS No. 142 and is due primarily to Upshot s loss of a significant client in the
fourth quarter of 2004. The charge is for a write-down of the goodwill resulting from the
2002 acquisition of Upshot. See  Critical Accounting Policies   Goodwill and Other
Intangibles  below.

Integration costs 

We recorded integration costs of $174 (0.1% of revenues) in 2004. These are primarily travel,
training and consulting costs directly related to the integration of SCI Promotion, Johnson
Grossfield and Megaprint Group.

Restructuring 

We recorded a net restructuring charge of $56 (0.0% of revenues) compared to $234 (0.1% of
revenues) in 2003. The charge is associated with the realignment of centralized resources in
our Marketing Services business, partially offset by a reversal of a portion of the 2003
restructuring charge related to severance for workforce reductions at Upshot.

Loss on lease 

We recorded a charge for the loss on the Chicago office lease of $311 (0.1% of revenues) in
2004. This is due to lower than estimated sublease income for vacated office space in the
Upshot business. The office space was subleased at rates modestly below our initial estimates,
due to softness in the current Chicago real estate market.

Dispute resolution charge 

We recorded a dispute resolution charge of $237 (0.1% of revenues) in 2004. This is related
to a dispute settlement liability incurred by assisting the former owner of SCI Promotion to
settle a claim for a product sold prior to our acquisition in September 2003. We chose to
facilitate the settlement of the claim in order to secure a continued business relationship
with SCI Promotion s longtime client. We retained the right to offset the amount paid toward
the settlement against future earnout payments in connection with the SCI Promotion
acquisition.

ERP reimplementation costs 

We recorded enterprise resource planning ( ERP ) reimplementation costs of $59 (0.1% of
revenues) in 2004. This represents consulting costs which were not capitalized into fixed
assets. The costs were incurred in connection with a significant upgrade and reimplementation
of the Company s ERP software which is designed to enhance management information, financial
reporting, inventory management, cost evaluation and controls while assisting in compliance
with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Other income (expense) 

Other income (expense) decreased $1,176 in 2004, to $(787) ((0.3)% of revenues) from $389
(0.2% of revenues) in 2003. Other expense is composed of a loss on foreign exchange of $628,
a loss on asset disposal of $8 and net interest expense of $151. Net interest expense
increased $82 to $151 in 2004 from $69 in 2003 due to reduced levels of cash and cash
equivalents and increased short-term debt in the fourth quarter of 2004. The foreign currency
transaction losses in 2004 were primarily a result of an effective hedge in the fourth quarter
of 2004. This loss was offset by a corresponding positive impact on cost of goods sold as a
result of the continuing weakening of the US dollar relative to the British Pound ( GBP ).
The Company s Logistix subsidiary purchases the bulk of its inventories from the Far East in
US dollars.

Provision (benefit) for Income Taxes 

The effective tax rate changed in 2004 to 41.0% from 34.0% in 2003. The increase in the
effective tax rate is the result of a net loss being generated domestically in 2004 relative
to net income in 2003 which was primarily generated internationally in territories which have
more favorable tax rates.

Net income (loss) 

Net income (loss) decreased $17,633, to $(9,684) in 2004 ((4.1)% of revenues) from $7,949 in
2003 (3.6% of revenues) primarily due to the impact of the minimum royalty guarantee
shortfalls and impairment of assets. In addition, the net loss in 2004 is due to
lower gross profit margins, increased salaries, wages and benefits and selling, general and
administrative expenses attributable to the acquisitions of SCI Promotion, Johnson Grossfield
and Megaprint Group, integration costs, restructuring loss, loss on Chicago lease,

18

Table of Contents   

dispute resolution charge and the ERP reimplementation costs. The decrease is also the result of
foreign currency transaction losses and higher interest expense.

Financial Condition and Liquidity 

Overview 

Despite significant losses in 2005, we believe that our balance sheet is relatively healthy.
The impairment charges and tax provisions did not impact our 2005 cash flows. Despite the
losses, we generated $12,093 in cash flows from operations as a result of a decreased
investment in working capital as of the end of 2005. We ended 2005 with $6,315 of cash and
cash equivalents and no debt.

We have largely completed the wind down of a majority of our Consumer Products business.
Historically, this business required disproportionately large investments in working capital
relative to the revenues it generated.

In 2006, we expect to use cash to fund operations to meet working capital needs in the
Marketing Services segment. We believe that cash from operations, cash on hand at December
31, 2005 and our credit facility will be sufficient to fund working capital needs for at least
the next twelve months. The statements set forth herein are forward-looking and actual
results may differ materially. See  Credit Facilities  below and Note 6 of the accompanying
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

2005 Compared to 2004 

At December 31, 2005, cash and cash equivalents increased by $1,909 to $6,315 compared to
$4,406 at December 31, 2004, primarily due to the cash generated from operations.

As of December 31, 2005, net accounts receivable decreased $17,805 to $29,375 from $47,180 in 2004.
This decrease was primarily due to lower revenues at Logistix (U.K.) in the fourth quarter of
2005, the reduction of Johnson Grossfield receivables as a result of the loss of business from its
primary client and is also attributable to reduced receivable levels in the Consumer Products
segment as a result of the wind down of Pop Rocket.

At December 31, 2005, inventories decreased $7,517 to $11,246 from $18,763 in 2004. This was
primarily due to a decrease in Marketing Services inventories for product scheduled for delivery in
the first quarter of 2006. This decrease is also attributable to reduced inventory levels in the
Consumer Products segment as a result of the wind down. Marketing Services inventories represent
65% and 76% of total inventories as of December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Marketing
Services inventories generally have lower risk than Consumer Products inventories, as they usually
represent product made to order.

At December 31, 2005, short-term debt decreased $6,025 to $0 from $6,025 in 2004. This
decrease is associated with the repayment of short-term borrowings used to finance the
purchase of Megaprint Group and the reduction of bank advances at Logistix (U.K.).

At December 31, 2005, accounts payable decreased $10,878 to $20,118 from $30,996 in 2004.
This decrease was attributable to the payment of liabilities related to large fourth quarter
2004 promotional programs.

At December 31, 2005, deferred revenue decreased $513 to $3,094 from $3,607 in 2004. This
decrease is primarily attributable to the timing of the shipments on a Marketing Services
promotional program.

Due to customer decreased $946 to $2,795 from $3,741 in 2004. This decrease in due to
customer was primarily due to the timing of the payment of royalty and administrative fees
collected from distribution companies on behalf of a significant Marketing Services client.

At December 31, 2005, accrued liabilities, including accrued payroll and payroll related
costs, decreased $2,059 to $11,453 from $13,512 in 2004. This decrease in accrued liabilities
is primarily attributable to the reversal of a 2004 accrual for minimum royalty guarantee
shortfalls and accrued liabilities partially offset by an increase in accrued payroll and
payroll related to severance and contractual bonus accruals.

At December 31, 2005, working capital was $12,520 compared to $17,934 at December 31, 2004.
Cash flows provided by operations for 2005 were $12,093 compared to cash flows used in
operations of $9,228 in the prior year. This change is primarily the result of the
collections of accounts receivable from large fourth quarter 2004 promotional programs. Cash
flows used in
investing activities for 2005 decreased $6,043 to $2,700 from $8,743 in the prior year. This
decrease is primarily the result of the acquisition of Johnson Grossfield in 2004 and the sale
in 2005 of a building in the Netherlands that was acquired in connection with the acquisition
of Megaprint Group, partially offset by the payment of additional consideration in 2005 in
connection with the 2004 acquisition of the Megaprint Group. Cash flows used in financing
activities for 2005 were $7,410 compared to cash flows provided

19

Table of Contents   

by financing activities of
$2,983 in the prior year. This is primarily the result of the repayment of short-term
borrowings used to finance the purchase of the Megaprint Group and the repayment of bank
advances at Logistix (U.K.).

Commitments 

Future minimum annual commitments for guaranteed minimum royalty payments under license
agreements, non-cancelable operating leases and employment agreements as of December 31, 2005
are as follows:

In 2005, the level of future guaranteed royalty commitments decreased significantly from 2004
levels as a result of negotiated settlements with certain licensors (see  Restructuring ).

We had no material commitments for capital expenditures at December 31, 2005. Letters of
credit outstanding as of December 31, 2004 and 2005 totaled $2,694 and $2,763, respectively.

Credit Facilities 

On April 24, 2001, we signed a credit facility (the  Facility ) with Bank of America. On April 26,
2004, the maturity date of the Facility was extended through June 30, 2005. Effective March 30,
2005 the maturity date of the Facility was further extended through March 31, 2006. The credit
facility was collateralized by substantially all of our assets and provided for a line of credit of
up to $20,000 with borrowing availability determined by a formula based on qualified assets.
Interest on outstanding borrowings was based on either a fixed rate equivalent to LIBOR plus an
applicable spread of between 1.50 and 2.25 percent or a variable rate equivalent to the bank s
reference rate plus an applicable spread of between zero and 0.50 percent. We were also required to
pay an unused line fee of between zero and 0.60 percent per annum and certain letter of credit
fees. The applicable spread is based on the achievement of certain financial ratios. As of
December 31, 2005, $0 was outstanding under the Facility. Effective March 29, 2006, we entered
into a new facility with Bank of America (see  Subsequent Events  below).

In
addition to the Facility, in October, 2003 the Company s Logistix (U.K.) agency in the United
Kingdom established an import/letter of credit facility with Hong Kong Shanghai Bank Corp.
( HSBC ) to provide short-term financing of product purchases in Asia. The total availability
under this facility is 1,500 GBP. The total availability under this facility was increased
from 1,000 GBP to 1,500 GBP in 2005. Under this facility HSBC may pay the agency s vendors
directly upon receipt of invoices and shipping documentation. Logistix (U.K.) in turn is
obligated to repay HSBC within 120 days. As of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005,
$1,797 and $0, respectively, were outstanding under the HSBC facility.

In connection with the acquisition of Megaprint Group, we assumed a mortgage loan secured by a
building in the Netherlands. The mortgage loan had a 24-year term and carried an interest rate
fixed at 5 percent per annum for three years from December 2002. As of December 31, 2004, the
balance on the mortgage loan was 919 Euros (approximately U.S. $1,253). During the quarter ended
June 30, 2005, we repaid the balance on the mortgage loan and subsequently sold the building. We
applied the balance of the mortgage loan against monies owed to the sellers of the Megaprint Group
(see  Acquisitions and Impairment of Assets  below). The proceeds from the sale of the building were paid to the sellers of the
Megaprint Group in the third quarter of 2005.

Megaprint Group had an overdraft facility of 750 Euros from ING Bank, Nederland. This facility was
canceled in the quarter ending September 30, 2005. As of December 31, 2004 and 2005, there were no
amounts outstanding under this facility.

Acquisitions and Impairment of Assets 

On July 17, 2002, we consummated the acquisition of UPSHOT, a marketing agency with expertise in
promotion, event marketing, collaborative marketing and environmental branding. We financed the
acquisition through our existing cash reserves. The acquisition was consummated pursuant to an
Asset Purchase Agreement, dated May 22, 2002, by and among EMAK, Promotional Marketing, LLC
( Promotional Marketing ) and HA-LO Industries, Inc. ( HA-LO ) (the  Upshot Purchase Agreement ).
Under the terms of the Upshot Purchase Agreement, we acquired the principal assets of Promotional
Marketing (consisting of the principal assets used in connection
with the operation of the UPSHOT business) for $9,206 in cash plus related transaction costs of
$685. This purchase price is net of $106 received in the fourth quarter of 2002 for a closing
balance sheet working capital adjustment. We assumed the principal current liabilities of the
UPSHOT business in connection with the acquisition. HA-LO, which is the parent company of
Promotional Marketing, was in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings as of the acquisition date, and our
acquisition of the UPSHOT business was approved by the United States bankruptcy court. In 2004, we
recorded a charge for impairment of assets of $6,312 as a result of the annual impairment test

20

Table of Contents   

required by SFAS No. 142. The charge was due primarily to Upshot s loss of a significant client in
the fourth quarter of 2004. The carrying value of the Upshot goodwill was $8,245 as of December
31, 2005. See  Critical Accounting Policies   Goodwill and Other Intangibles  below.

On September 3, 2003, we acquired substantially all of the assets of SCI Promotion, a privately
held promotional marketing services company based in Ontario, California. We financed the
acquisition through our existing cash reserves. The acquisition was consummated pursuant to an
Asset Purchase Agreement dated September 3, 2003, by and among EMAK, SCI Promotion and Joseph J.
Schmidt, III (the  SCI Promotion Purchase Agreement ). Under the terms of the SCI Promotion
Purchase Agreement, we acquired substantially all of the assets of SCI Promotion for a cash
purchase price of approximately $5,900 (before closing balance sheet working capital adjustment),
plus additional earnout consideration of up to $3,500 based upon future performance of the acquired
business. Net of a holdback of $250, we paid $5,683 in cash plus related transaction costs of $538.
We also assumed the operating liabilities of the business in connection with the acquisition. The
earnout consideration is based upon the business achieving targeted levels of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) over the period from 2003 through 2006.
The earnout payments, if required, are payable 50% in cash and 50% in shares of our common stock.
An earnout of $800 was paid for 2003 performance. No earnouts were payable based upon 2004 or
2005 performance.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, we incurred a goodwill impairment charge of $10,838 in connection
with the annual impairment test required by SFAS No. 142 for SCI Promotion.
This charge is based on our most recent projections, which were formulated in the fourth quarter of
2005. Our projections were negatively impacted by the continuing trend of department store consolidation, and its
industry-specific challenges which have resulted in smaller marketing budgets, fewer programs and
smaller program sizes. Competitive pressures and materials cost increases in Asia have also
compressed margins. See  Critical Accounting Policies   Goodwill and Other Intangibles  below.
Included in the impairment analysis for SCI Promotion is $8,318 of goodwill
related to the business of U.S. Import   Promotion, Co. ( USI ), which is our seasonal toy and
promotions business catering to the oil and gas retailers. USI was acquired in 1998 and later
consolidated with SCI because its client base and offerings were complementary. SCI Promotion
goodwill and other intangibles was $2,651 as of December 31, 2005.

On February 2, 2004, we acquired certain assets of Johnson Grossfield, Inc. ( JGI-MN ) a privately
held promotional marketing services company based in Minneapolis, Minnesota (the  Johnson
Grossfield Acquisition ). We financed the Johnson Grossfield Acquisition through our existing cash
reserves. The Johnson Grossfield Acquisition was consummated pursuant to an Asset Purchase
Agreement dated January 16, 2004, by and among the Company, Johnson Grossfield, Inc., a Delaware
corporation wholly owned by us ( Johnson Grossfield ), JGI-MN, Marc Grossfield and Thom Johnson
(the  Johnson Grossfield Purchase Agreement ). Under the terms of the Johnson Grossfield Purchase
Agreement, we purchased the assets of JGI-MN s promotional agency business for approximately $4,600
in cash and 35,785 shares of our common stock (which, based upon the January 30, 2004 closing
market price of $14.80, had a value of $530), plus additional earnout consideration of up to $4,500
based upon future performance of the acquired business. We also assumed the operating liabilities
of the promotional agency business in connection with the acquisition. The earnout consideration
is based upon the acquired business achieving targeted levels of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) over the period from 2004 through 2008. The earnout
payments, if required, are payable 50% in cash and 50% in shares of our Common Stock (based upon a contractually agreed
value of $13.97 per share). On April 19, 2005, we reached agreement with the sellers of Johnson Grossfield on the amount of earnout
attributable to 2004 performance. Such earnout consideration totaled $257, of which $148 was
payable in cash and the remainder payable in shares of our Common Stock
(10,616 shares with a market value of $109 as of April 19, 2005). This earnout consideration was recorded as goodwill in the second
quarter of 2005. No earnout was payable based upon 2005 performance.

On August 9, 2005, we were notified by the Subway Franchisee Advertising Fund Trust ( SFAFT ) that
following completion of fulfillment on Subway Restaurant s kids meal programs by Johnson Grossfield
in November 2005, the relationship between Johnson Grossfield and Subway Restaurants would be
terminated. As a result, in 2005 we recorded a charge of $3,431 for the impairment of goodwill
and other intangible assets of Johnson Grossfield. Johnson Grossfield goodwill and other
intangibles was $0 as of December 31, 2005. See  Critical Accounting Policies   Goodwill and Other
Intangibles  below.

On November 10, 2004, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Megaprint Group Limited
( Megaprint Group ), a privately held creative promotions agency headquartered in the United
Kingdom. We financed the Megaprint Group acquisition through short-term debt. We paid 1,824 GBP
(approximately US $3,388) in cash (net of a hold back for working capital adjustments of 180 GBP),
plus related transaction costs of 305 GBP (approximately US $566). Under the terms of the Share
Purchase Agreement, we were committed to pay, subject to offset for any shortfall in the target
level of net working capital at December 31, 2004, a minimum of 850 GBP and up to a maximum of
1,300 GBP in 2005 based on the performance of Megaprint Group for the year ended December 31, 2004.
The Company accrued a liability for the minimum payment of 850 GBP as purchase price as of the
acquisition date. We also committed to pay additional consideration up to a maximum of 2,450 GBP based on future performance
through 2009. The additional consideration is based upon the business achieving targeted levels of
margin after direct overhead ( MADO ) over the period from 2005 through 2009. The additional
consideration, if any, will be recorded as goodwill. No earnout was payable based upon the 2005
performance.

During the second quarter of 2005, an additional 256 GBP (approximately $461) was paid to the
sellers of Megaprint Group for a working capital adjustment. The additional consideration was
recorded as goodwill in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.

21

Table of Contents   

Included in net current liabilities for the Megaprint Group as of the acquisition date was a
mortgage loan for a building in the Netherlands. The balance of the mortgage loan as of the
acquisition date totaled approximately 900 Euros (approximately $1,200). The building was recorded
under fixed assets and was recorded at the same value as the balance of the mortgage loan. The
building and mortgage loan were held in trust by the Megaprint Group on behalf of its former
shareholders (the  Sellers ). In June 2005, we repaid the mortgage loan. The amount repaid of 900
Euros (approximately $1,090) was applied against monies owed to the Sellers for the 2004 Earnout
Payment. As a result, in June 2005, we paid the sellers 199 GBP (approximately $360) of the 850
GBP owed for the 2004 Earnout Payment. Subsequent to the repayment of the mortgage loan, the
building was sold in June 2005 for 747 Euros (approximately $939). The proceeds from the sale were
paid to the Sellers in the third quarter of 2005.

Effective January 1, 2005, the Megaprint Group was consolidated with the Logistix (U.K.) reporting
unit, because its client base and service offerings were complementary to Logistix. As a result,
the balance of Megaprint Group goodwill and other intangibles is analyzed in connection with the
annual impairment test for the Logistix (U.K.) reporting unit. Throughout 2004, Logistix (U.K.)
won all of its largest client s pan-European programs. The agency had a long string of consecutive
wins, and it did not repeat this win rate in 2005. Additionally, this client has reduced the
number and size of its promotional programs. We currently believe this pattern will continue, and
as a result, we incurred a goodwill impairment charge of $16,701 in the fourth quarter of 2005 in
connection with the annual impairment test required by SFAS No. 142. Logistix (U.K.) goodwill and
other intangibles was $2,659 as of December 31, 2005. See  Critical Accounting Policies   Goodwill
and Other Intangibles  below.

Restructuring 

In 2003, we recorded a restructuring charge of $424 which represents severance for workforce
reductions at our Upshot division. Our Upshot business did not achieve the level of contribution
we were expecting that year which was primarily attributable to reduced marketing expenditures by a
couple of its larger clients. In order to bring our cost structure in line with the then current
business volume, we eliminated eight positions at Upshot in December 2003. This charge was
partially offset by a $190 reversal of a restructuring reserve that we established in 1998 relating
to former consumer products licenses. This reversal was attributable to the expiration of certain
contractual rights.

In 2004, we implemented a restructuring plan in connection with the realignment of centralized
resources in our Marketing Services business in order to combine and streamline the operations. In
connection with this plan we recorded a restructuring charge of $81. This charge represents
severance for one employee in our Los Angeles office, who was terminated, and is reflected as a
restructuring charge in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. This charge was
partially offset by a restructuring gain of $25 that represents a reversal of a portion of the 2003
restructuring charge related to the severance for workforce reductions at Upshot.

In 2004, we finalized a decision to pursue the wind down of a substantial majority of our Consumer
Products business. Our determination was to significantly scale back this business during 2005
while exiting a substantial majority of the business permanently as soon as is feasible. As a
result of the wind down, in the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $7,722
relating to minimum royalty guarantee shortfalls on several Consumer Products licenses. This
charge was determined based on contractual commitments as of December 31, 2004 and reflected our
decision not to fully exploit these licenses. Approximately $3,000 of this pre-tax charge was
non-cash for write-offs of long-term royalty advances. The charge was recorded as minimum royalty
guarantee shortfalls in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2004.

On May 18, 2005, we reached a settlement with one of our licensors affecting several licenses.
Under the terms of the settlement, we agreed to forgo our rights to certain licensed properties for
2006 and 2007 in exchange for a reduction in the overall royalty guarantees. We retained product
distribution rights under the licenses for 2005. As a result of this settlement, our overall
commitment for royalty guarantees was reduced by approximately $4,000. We were required to pay the
licensor a total of $1,800 through March 31, 2006. As a result of this settlement and higher than
expected Scooby-Doo  revenues that exceeded our initial estimates, $2,837 of the 2004 charge for
minimum royalty guarantee shortfalls was reversed in 2005. The reversal was recorded as a minimum
royalty guarantee shortfall gain in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for the
year ended December 31, 2005. We continue to monitor royalty accruals in light of the wind down and
continue our negotiations with licensors for the termination of other license agreements.

In 2005, in connection with the Consumer Products wind down, we incurred a charge for one-time employee termination
benefits and other costs totaling approximately $746. Such costs are recorded as a restructuring
charge in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the
year ended December 31, 2005. The entire amount is attributable to the Consumer Products segment.
Of the $746 of costs incurred to date, $513 has been paid as of December 31, 2005.

In 2005, we eliminated several centralized corporate positions as a result of a realignment of
centralized resources. As a result, we incurred a charge for one-time employee termination
benefits and other costs totaling approximately $622 in 2005. Such costs are recorded as a
restructuring charge in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2005. The entire amount is attributable to the corporate segment. Of the $622 of costs
incurred to date, $261 has been paid as of December 31, 2005. We expect to incur additional costs
in 2006 of approximately $165 related to additional restructuring in the first quarter. All remaining costs are expected to be paid by August 31, 2006.

22

Table of Contents   

In 2005, we eliminated several positions at Logistix (U.K.) as a result of a less than optimal
staff utilization rate resulting from a decrease in revenues. In connection with this decision, we
incurred charges for one-time employee termination benefits and other costs totaling $568 in 2005.
Such costs are recorded as a restructuring charge in the consolidated statements of operations. The
entire amount is attributable to the Marketing Services segment. Of the $568 of costs incurred to
date, $137 has been paid as of December 31, 2005.

In 2005, we made the determination to close Johnson Grossfield s Minneapolis office effective
October 31, 2005. We recorded a charge of approximately $192 for one-time employee termination
benefits related to the closure of the Minneapolis office. Such costs are recorded as a
restructuring charge in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for 2005. The entire
amount is attributable to the Marketing Services segment. Of the $192 of costs incurred to date,
$96 has been paid as of December 31, 2005. These costs are expected to be paid by June 30, 2006.

In 2005, we made a decision to reorganize and consolidate SCI Promotion s offices in Ontario,
California with our Los Angeles office. We recorded a charge for one-time employee termination
benefits and other costs totaling $640 in 2005. Such costs are recorded as a restructuring charge
in the consolidated statements of operations. The entire amount is attributable to the Marketing
Services segment. Of the $640 of costs incurred to date, $110 has been paid as of December 31,
2005.

In 2005, we made the determination to sublease approximately 15,000 square feet of our Los Angeles office space. The
space was sublet effective December 15, 2005 for a term ending December 31, 2009 (the expiration of
the master lease term). We recorded a charge of $184 for the estimated loss on the sublease over
the term. Such costs are recorded as a restructuring charge in the consolidated statement of
operations for 2005. The entire amount is attributable to the corporate segment. Of the $184 of
costs incurred to date, the amount of loss will be amortized againist this amount beginning in
2006.

Income Taxes 

We assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets and the need for a valuation allowance based
on the requirements of SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes . SFAS No. 109 requires us to
analyze all positive and negative evidence to determine if, based on the weight of available
evidence, we are more likely than not to realize the benefit of our net deferred tax assets. The
recognition of a valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets and the related tax provision
is based upon our conclusions regarding, among other considerations, our estimates of future
earnings based on information currently available. Because of the operating losses we have
incurred over the past couple of years and based on current projections of 2006 taxable income, we
established a non-cash valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. We do not expect to
record tax expense or benefits on U.S.-based operating results until we are consistently profitable
on a quarterly basis. At that time, the valuation allowance will be reassessed and could be
eliminated, resulting in the recognition of the deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance
provided against deferred tax assets is $14,613 at December 31, 2005; $8,658 of this amount
represents deferred tax assets established in prior years with the balance reflecting deferred tax
assets generated as the result of 2005 taxable losses. We recorded a tax provision of $8,153 in
2005 as the result of establishing a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets during the
fourth quarter of 2005 (see disclosure in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this
Form 10-K).

Stock Repurchase 

On July 24, 2001, our Board of Directors authorized up to $10,000 for the repurchase of our
Common Stock over a twelve month period. In the period from August 2, 2001 through July 11,
2002, we spent $5,605 to purchase 454,715 shares at an average price of $12.33 per share
including commissions. On July 12, 2002, our Board of Directors authorized up to $10,000 for
the repurchase of our Common Stock. We spent $3,505 to repurchase 267,650 shares at an
average price of $13.10 per share including commissions under this authorization through
December 31, 2004. The Company made no additional purchases during the year ended December
31, 2005. On March 27, 2006, the Company s Board of Directors adopted a resolution
terminating the repurchase program, as the Company is not planning on making any further stock
repurchases.

Inflation 

The effect of inflation on our operations during 2005 was insignificant. We will continue our
policy of controlling costs and adjusting prices to the extent permitted by competitive
factors.

Related Party Transactions 

On July 15, 2003, the Company entered into an agreement with U.S. Capital Investors, Inc. ( USCI ),
an entity controlled by Jeffrey S. Deutschman, pursuant to which USCI served as an advisor to the
Company with respect to potential mergers and acquisitions through December 31, 2003 (the  2003
Agreement ). On August 23, 2004, the Company entered into another advisory agreement with USCI for
services during calendar 2004 (the  2004 Agreement ). Mr. Deutschman currently serves on the Board
of Directors of the Company as

23

Table of Contents   

the representative of the holder of the Company s Series AA Stock.
The Company s agreements with USCI provided for the payment of a discretionary success fee for
completed acquisition transactions in an amount determined by an independent committee of the
Board. The 2003 Agreement set forth guidelines for fees payable upon successful completion of an
acquisition transaction of $200 for up to $10,000 of consideration, 1.5% of consideration from
$10,000 to $25,000 and 1% of consideration over $25,000; provided, however, that the success fee
for the first transaction under the agreement had an initial fee guideline of $275 for up to
$10,000 of consideration. Notwithstanding the guidelines, the independent committee had absolute
discretion in determining the amount, if any, of the success fee for any transaction. The 2004
Agreement did not include success fee guidelines. The USCI agreements provided for the payment of a
refundable advance against success fees in the aggregate amount of $275 under the 2003 Agreement
and $322 under the 2004 Agreement. The Company believes that these agreements enhanced its ability
to analyze and close merger and acquisition transactions in a more cost effective manner than with
traditional outside advisory firms. In connection with the acquisition of SCI Promotion, USCI
earned a success fee of $275. This success fee is recorded as a transaction cost of the SCI
Promotion acquisition. In connection with the February 2004 acquisition of Johnson Grossfield,
USCI earned a success fee of $125. This success fee is recorded as a transaction cost of the
Johnson Grossfield acquisition. In connection with the acquisition of Megaprint Group in November
2004, USCI earned a success fee of $322. This success fee is recorded as a transaction cost of the
Megaprint Group acquisition. The Company did not extend the arrangement with USCI after 2004.

Subsequent Events 

On March 15, 2006, our Board of Directors announced that it approved the adoption of a stockholder
rights plan under which all stockholders of record as of March 26, 2006 would will receive rights to
purchase shares of a new series of preferred stock. The Rights Plan will expire unless
stockholders approve its continuation at our 2008 annual meeting.

The Rights Plan is designed to enable all of the Company s stockholders to realize the full value
of their investment and to provide for fair and equal treatment for all stockholders in the event
that an unsolicited attempt is made to acquire the Company, and is intended as a means to guard
against abusive takeover tactics. The Rights Plan requires the Board to call a special meeting of
stockholders to consider the redemption of the Rights Plan if a third party commences an all-cash
tender offer which meets certain criteria specified in the Rights Plan.

The rights will be distributed as a non-taxable dividend. The rights will be exercisable only if a
person or group acquires 10% or more of the Company s Common Stock or announces a tender offer for
10% or more of the Common Stock. If a person or group acquires 10% or
more of the Company s Common
Stock, all rights holders except the buyer will be entitled to acquire the Company s Common Stock
at a discount. The intended effect will be to prevent acquisitions of more than 10% of the
Company s Common Stock without first negotiating with the Board. Existing stockholders of EMAK who
currently own more than 10% of the Common Stock are exempted from the terms of the Rights Plan
unless and until any of them acquires additional shares of the Common Stock after March 15, 2006.

The rights will trade with the Company s Common Stock, unless and until they are separated upon the
occurrence of certain future events. The Board of Directors may terminate the Rights Plan or
redeem the rights at any time prior to the time the rights are triggered.

On March 27, 2006, our Board of Directors adopted a resolution terminating our stock repurchase program,
as we are not planning on making any further stock repurchases.

On March 29, 2006, we signed a new credit facility (the  New Facility ) with Bank of America. The
maturity date of the New Facility is March 29, 2009. The New Facility is secured by substantially
all of our Company s assets and provides for a line of credit of up to $25,000 with borrowing
availability determined by a formula based on qualified assets. Interest on outstanding borrowings
will be based on either a fixed rate equivalent to LIBOR plus an applicable spread of between 2.50
and 3.00 percent or a variable rate equivalent to the bank s reference rate plus an applicable
spread of between 0.75 and 1.25 percent. The Company is also required to pay an unused line fee of
between 0.375 and 0.50 percent per annum and certain letter of credit fees. The applicable spread
is based on the levels of borrowings relative to qualified assets. The New Facility also requires
the Company to comply with certain restrictions and covenants as amended from time to time. The
Facility may be used for working capital and other corporate financing purposes. The New Facility does not permit the payment of dividends on Series AA Preferred Stock in 2006.
The restriction on dividends may be removed in 2007 subject to 2006 audited results and compliance
with covenants.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In September 2004, the consensus of EITF Issue No. 04-10,  Applying Paragraph 19 of Financial
Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) FASB Statement No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information,  in Determining Whether to Aggregate Operating Segments That Do
Not Meet the Quantitative Thresholds,  was published. EITF Issue No. 04-10 addresses how an
enterprise should evaluate the aggregation criteria of SFAS No. 131 when determining whether
operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds may be aggregated in accordance
with SFAS No. 131. The consensus in EITF 04-10 should be applied for fiscal years ending after
September 15, 2005. Adoption of this issue did not have a
significant effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

24

Table of Contents   

In June 2005, the FASB issued EITF Issue No. 05-06, Determining the Amortization Period for
Leasehold Improvements Purchased after Lease Inception or Acquired in a Business Combination,
( EITF 05-06 ) to address issues related to the amortization period for leasehold improvements
acquired in a business combination or placed in service after and not contemplated at the beginning
of the lease term. The Task Force reached a consensus that these types of leasehold improvements
should be amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the assets or a term that includes
required lease periods and renewals that are deemed to be reasonably assured at the date of the
acquisition or the date the leasehold improvements are purchased. This consensus does not apply to
preexisting leasehold improvements, but should be applied to leasehold improvements that are
purchased or acquired in reporting periods beginning after June 29, 2005. The application of this
consensus did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs An Amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4.  SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  of Accounting
Research Bulletin ( ARB ) No. 43,  Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins,  to
clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and
wasted material ( spoilage ). Among other provisions, the statement requires that items such as
idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight, and rehandling costs be recognized as
current-period charges regardless of whether they meet the criterion of  so abnormal  as stated in
ARB No. 43. Additionally, SFAS No. 151 requires that the allocation of fixed production overheads
to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No.
151 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. We are currently evaluating the
effect that the adoption of SFAS No. 151 will have on its results of operations and financial
position, but do not expect it to have a material impact.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) ( SFAS No. 123(R) ), Share-Based
Payment, which replaced SFAS No. 123 and superseded APB Opinion No. 25. SFAS No. 123(R) requires
all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized
in the financial statements based on their fair values. The pro forma disclosures previously
permitted under SFAS No. 123 will no longer be an alternative to financial statement recognition.
Under SFAS No. 123(R), we must determine the appropriate fair value method to be used for valuing
share-based payments, the expense attribution method for compensation cost and the transition
method to be used at the time of adoption. The transition methods include prospective and
retroactive adoption options. The prospective method requires that compensation cost be recorded
for all unvested stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units beginning in the first
quarter of adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), whereas the retroactive method requires recording
compensation cost for all unvested stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units
beginning with the first period restated.

In April 2005, the Securities Exchange Commission amended Rule S-X to delay the effective date for
compliance with SFAS No. 123(R). Based on the amended rule, we are required to adopt SFAS No.
123(R) on January 1, 2006. In 2006, we plan to use the prospective method of adoption under SFAS
No. 123(R), and for new grants, to attribute expense to the service periods through the
straight-line method. In December 2005, the Board of Directors approved the acceleration of
vesting of all outstanding unvested stock options primarily to avoid future compensation expense
for those stock options, all of which were out-of-the money. Our directors and CEO entered into
restriction agreements with respect to their accelerated options prohibiting the resale of shares
acquired upon exercise until the original vesting dates of the options. See Item 8  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Stock-Based
Compensation.  The future compensation expense to be recorded upon adoption of SFAS 123R that is
eliminated as a result of the acceleration of the vesting of these options is approximately $1,100.
We are evaluating the requirements of SFAS No. 123(R) and expect the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)
may negatively impact our results of operations; however, the amount and materiality of the impact
will depend on the amount and type of share-based payments granted in future periods.

In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143  ( FIN 47 ), which requires an entity to
recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred
if the liability s fair value can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 is effective for fiscal years
ending after December 15, 2005. FIN 47 did not have a material impact on our consolidated
statements of operations and financial condition.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections-a replacement of
APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.  This Statement requires retrospective application to
prior periods  financial statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable
to determine the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. This
pronouncement was effective December 15, 2005. Currently, we do not have changes in accounting
principle; therefore, the adoption of SFAS 154 does not have any impact on our financial position
or results of operations.

In October 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) 13-1,  Accounting for Rental Costs
Incurred During a Construction Period.  FSP 13-1 requires rental costs associated with ground or
building operating leases that are incurred during a construction period to be recognized as rental
expense. FSP 13-1 applies to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. Retrospective
application in accordance with FASB SFAS No. 154  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,  is
permitted but not required. We do not believe that the adoption of FSP 13-1 will have a
significant impact on our operations or financial position.

25

Table of Contents   

Critical Accounting Policies 

We make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. The accounting policies described
below are those we consider most critical in preparing our consolidated financial statements.
Management has discussed the development and selection of each of these critical accounting
policies with the audit committee of the board of directors and the audit committee has reviewed
each of the disclosures included below. These policies include significant judgment made by
management using information available at the time the estimates are made. As described below,
however, these estimates could change materially if different information or assumptions were used.

Revenue Recognition  

For product related sales, we record revenues when title and risk of loss pass to the
customer. When a right of return exists, our practice is to estimate and provide for any
future returns at the time of sale, in accordance with SFAS No. 48,  Revenue Recognition When
Right of Return Exists.  Accruals for customer discounts and rebates and defective returns
are recorded as the related revenues are recognized.

Service revenues include all amounts that are billable to clients under service contracts.
Service related revenues are recognized on a time and materials basis, or on a straight-line
basis, depending on the contract. In the case of fee and production arrangements, the
revenues are recognized as the services are performed, which is generally ratably over the
period of the client contract. Revenues from time and materials service contracts are
recognized as the services are rendered. Revenues from fixed price retainer contracts are
recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term. Losses on contracts are
recognized during the period in which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably
estimable. Reimbursements, including those relating to travel and other out-of-pocket
expenses, and other similar third-party costs, such as printing costs, are included in
revenues, and an equivalent amount of reimbursable expenses are included in cost of sales.
Service revenues for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 totaled $22,129, $24,692
and $31,526, respectively. Unbilled revenues represent revenues recognized in advance of
billings rendered based on work performed to date on certain service contracts. Unbilled
revenues as of December 31, 2004 and 2005 totaled $2,100 and $1,322, respectively. Unbilled
revenues are recorded in accounts receivable in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
Unbilled revenues are expected to be billed and collected within the next six months.

In May 2003, the EITF issued Issue No. 00-21,  Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with
Multiple Deliverables.  EITF Issue No. 00-21 provides guidance on how to determine when an
arrangement that involves multiple revenue-generating activities or deliverables should be
divided into separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and if this
division is required, how the arrangement consideration should be allocated among the separate
units of accounting. The guidance in this Issue is effective for revenue arrangements entered
into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003. Under the contractual arrangements with
Burger King, creative services are a separate deliverable from manufacturing services. As a
result, we are required to record the creative revenues when the specification and engineering
package is delivered to and accepted by Burger King.

Our revenue recognition policies are in compliance with the Securities and Exchange
Commission s Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 101:  Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements  and SAB No. 104  Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements. 

Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts  

The allowances for doubtful accounts receivable and sales returns represent adjustments to
customer trade accounts receivable for amounts deemed partially or entirely uncollectible.
Management believes the accounting estimate related to such allowances is a  critical
accounting estimate  because significant changes in it could materially affect key financial
measures including revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses. In addition,
the allowances require a high degree of judgment since they involve the estimation of the
impact of both current and future economic factors as it relates to each of our customers 
ability to pay amounts owed to us. In the case of our Consumer Products segment, we must
estimate the impact of retail sell through on customer discounts and returns.

We regularly extend credit to distribution companies in connection with our business with the
Burger King system, which includes Supply Chain Services, LLC ( SCS ), a subsidiary of Burger
King s franchisee purchasing cooperative, Restaurant Services, Inc. ( RSI ). We began selling
product to SCS in October 2003. Because of SCS s established credit history with us, we do
not believe that the concentration of receivables has a negative impact to our overall credit
risk. Failure by SCS or one or more distribution companies to honor their payment obligations
to us could have a material adverse effect on our operations. RSI and, beginning in October
2003, SCS, accounted for 17.9%, 80.2% and 84.8% of the products purchased from us by the
Burger King system for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. SCS
accounted for 19.2% and 30.3% of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2004 and 2005,
respectively.

We also extend credit to several retailers in the Consumer Products business. The mass market
retail channel has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors in recent
years, causing some large retailers to experience liquidity problems.

26

Table of Contents   

Failure by one or more
of these retailers to honor their payment obligations to us could have a material adverse
effect on our operations.

We have procedures to mitigate the risk of exposure to losses from bad debts. Revenue is
recognized provided that: there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance; persuasive
evidence of an agreement exists documenting the specific terms of the transaction; the sales
price is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is reasonably assured. Our credit limits
and payment terms are established based on the underlying criteria that collectibility must be
reasonably assured at the levels set for each customer. Extensive evaluations are performed
on an on-going basis throughout the fiscal year of the financial performance, cash generation,
financing availability and liquidity status of each customer. Each customer is reviewed at
least annually, with more frequent reviews being performed if necessary based on the
customer s financial condition and the level of credit being extended. For customers who are
experiencing financial difficulties, management performs additional financial analyses prior
to shipping to those customers on credit. Customer terms and credit limits are reviewed and
adjusted, if necessary, to reflect the results of the review. We use a variety of financial
transactions to ensure collectibility of accounts receivable of customers deemed to be a
credit risk, including requiring letters of credit and requiring cash on delivery.

We record allowances for doubtful accounts receivable and sales returns at the time revenue is
recognized based on management s assessment of the business environment, customers  financial
condition, historical collection experience, accounts receivable aging, retail sell through
and customer disputes. When a significant event occurs, such as a bankruptcy filing of a
customer, the allowance is reviewed for adequacy and adjusted to reflect the change in
estimated receivable impairment. We believe that our allowances for doubtful accounts
receivable and sales returns at December 31, 2005 are adequate.

Goodwill and Other Intangibles  

SFAS No. 141,  Business Combinations  and SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
were approved by FASB effective June 30, 2001 for business combinations consummated after June
30, 2001. SFAS No. 141 eliminates the pooling-of-interests method for business combinations
and requires use of the purchase method. SFAS No. 142 changes the accounting for goodwill and
certain other intangible assets from an amortization approach to a non-amortization
(impairment) approach. The statement requires amortization of goodwill recorded in connection
with previous business combinations to cease upon adoption of the statement by calendar year
companies on January 1, 2002. We have adopted the provisions of these statements for the
acquisition of Logistix effective July 1, 2001 and for all other acquisitions effective
January 1, 2002. Accordingly, beginning on January 1, 2002, we have foregone all related
goodwill amortization expense.

Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, the carrying value of assets acquired, including
goodwill, are reviewed annually. During such a review we estimate the fair value of the
reporting unit to which the assets were assigned by discounting the reporting unit s estimated
future cash flows before interest. We compare the discounted future cash flows to the
carrying value of the acquired net assets to determine if an impairment loss has occurred. If
such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the
amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds their estimated fair values. In the
fourth quarter of 2005, we performed the annual impairment test required by SFAS No. 142 and
determined that the goodwill resulting from the acquisitions of Logistix (U.K.) and SCI
Promotion was impaired as of December 31, 2005. As a result, we recorded a non-cash charge in
the amount of $16,701 and $10,838 to write-down the carrying value of the Logistix (U.K.) and
SCI Promotion goodwill, respectively. In addition, we recorded a non-cash charge of $3,431
relating to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets of Johnson Grossfield as a
result of the loss of its most significant client. In 2004, we recorded a non-cash charge in
the amount of $6,312 to write-down the carrying value of the Upshot goodwill.

Management believes the accounting estimate related to the valuation of its goodwill and other
intangibles is a  critical accounting estimate  because significant changes in assumptions
could materially affect key financial measures, including net income and goodwill.

Our valuation method requires us to make projections of revenue, operating expenses and
working capital investment for each reporting unit over a multi-year period. Additionally,
management must make an estimate of its weighted average cost of capital to be used as a
discount rate. Changes in these projections or estimates could result in a reporting unit
either passing or failing the first step in the SFAS No. 142 impairment model, which could
significantly change the amount of impairment recorded.

Royalties  

We enter into agreements to license intellectual properties such as trademarks, copyrights
and patents. The agreements may call for minimum amounts of royalties to be paid in advance
and throughout the term of the agreement, which are non-refundable in the event that product
sales fail to meet certain minimum levels. Advance royalties resulting from such
transactions are stated at the lower of the amounts paid or the amounts estimated to be
recoverable from future sales of the related products. Furthermore, minimum guaranteed
royalty commitments are reviewed on a periodic basis to ensure that amounts are recoverable
based on
estimates of future sales of the products under license. A loss provision will be recorded in
the consolidated statements of operations to the extent that future minimum royalty guarantee
commitments are not recoverable. Estimated future sales are projected based on historical
experience, including that of similar products, and anticipated advertising and marketing
support by the licensor. In the

27

Table of Contents   

fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded a pre-tax charge of
$7,722 relating to minimum royalty guarantee shortfalls on several consumer products licenses.
These shortfalls are the result of our decision to wind down its consumer products business,
Pop Rocket which resulted in a decrease in expectations of future sales under several
licenses.

On May 18, 2005, we reached a settlement with one of our licensors affecting several licenses.
Under the terms of the settlement, we agreed to forgo its rights to certain licensed
properties for 2006 and 2007 in exchange for a reduction in the overall royalty guarantees.
We retained product distribution rights under the licenses for 2005. As a result of this
settlement, our overall commitment for royalty guarantees was reduced by approximately $4,000.
We were required to pay the licensor a total of $1,800 through March 31, 2006. As a result
of this settlement and higher than expected Scooby-Doo  revenues that exceeded our initial
estimates, $2,837 of the 2004 charge for minimum royalty guarantee shortfalls was reversed in
2005. The reversal was recorded as a minimum royalty guarantee shortfall gain in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005. We
continue to monitor royalty accruals and continue our negotiations with the licensors for the
termination of several of its license agreements.

Management believes the accounting estimate related to minimum guaranteed royalty commitments is a
 critical accounting estimate  because changes in sales projections could materially affect key
financial measures including, gross profit, net income and other assets.

Inventories  

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventory obsolescence reserves are
recorded for damaged, obsolete, excess and slow-moving inventory. Management believes the
accounting estimate related to inventory allowance is a  critical accounting estimate  because
changes in it could materially affect key financial measures including, gross profit, net income
and inventories. In addition, the valuation requires a high degree of judgment since it involves
estimation of the impact resulting from both current and expected future events. As more fully
described below, valuation of our Consumer Product inventory could be impacted by changes in public
and consumer preferences, demand for product, or changes in the buying patterns and inventory
management of customers.

Although the significant majority of our inventories are composed of made-to-order promotional
product, in the Consumer Products segment orders are subject to cancellation or change at any time
prior to shipment since actual shipments of products ordered and order cancellation rates are
affected by consumer acceptance of product lines, strength of competing products, marketing
strategies of retailers and overall economic conditions. Unexpected changes in these factors could
result in excess inventory in a particular product line, which would require management to make a
valuation estimate on such inventory.

We base our production schedules for consumer products on customer orders, historical trends,
results of market research and current market information. We ship products in accordance with
delivery schedules specified by our customers, which usually request delivery within three months.
In anticipation of retail sales in the traditional holiday season in the fourth quarter, we
significantly increase our production in advance of the peak selling period, resulting in a
corresponding build-up of consumer product inventory levels in the second and third quarters of the
year. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times cause risk to our
consumer products business associated with the underproduction of popular products and the
overproduction of products that do not have significant consumer demand. Retailers are also
attempting to manage their inventories more tightly, requiring us to ship products closer to the
time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase inventory
valuation risk since we may not be able to meet demand for certain products at peak demand times,
or that our own inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before
orders are placed.

Additionally, current conditions in the domestic and global economies are extremely uncertain. As
a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in various parts of the economy,
including the markets in which we participate. Economic changes may affect the sales of our
consumer products and its corresponding inventory levels, which would potentially impact the
valuation of our inventory.

At the end of each quarter, management within the Consumer Products business segment performs a
detailed review of its inventory on an item by item basis and identifies which products are
believed to be obsolete or slow-moving. Management then applies an allowance for inventory
obsolescence to such inventory based on certain expectations, including customer and consumer
demand for product and the aging of the inventory, which are impacted by the factors discussed
above.

Management believes that the allowance for inventory obsolescence at December 31, 2005 is adequate
and proper. However, the impact resulting from the aforementioned factors could cause actual
results to vary. Any incremental obsolescence charges would negatively affect the results of
operations of the Consumer Products business segment.

28

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes our obsolescence reserve at December 31:

The increase from 2004 to 2005 in the allowance for obsolescence was mainly due to the
specific identification of excess inventory that was impaired as of year end 2005. Management
believes that its allowance for obsolescence at year end 2005 is adequate and proper.
However, the impact resulting from the aforementioned factors could cause actual results to
vary. Any incremental obsolescence charges would negatively affect our results of operations.

Income Taxes  

Our income tax provision and related income tax assets and liabilities are based on actual and
expected future income, U.S. and foreign statutory income tax rates, and tax regulations and planning
opportunities in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. We believe that the accounting
estimate related to income taxes is a  critical accounting estimate  because significant judgment
is required in interpreting tax regulations in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, determining our
worldwide tax positions, and assessing the likelihood of realizing certain tax benefits. Actual
results could differ materially from those judgments, and changes in judgments could materially
affect our consolidated financial statements.

Certain income and expense items are accounted for differently for financial reporting and income
tax purposes. As a result, the effective tax rate reflected in our consolidated statements of
operations is different than that reported in our tax returns filed with the taxing authorities.
Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax
return, and some differences reverse over time, such as depreciation and amortization expense.
These timing differences create deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income tax
assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in our tax returns
in future years for which we have already recorded a tax benefit in its consolidated statement of
operations. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred income tax assets if, based on
the weight of available evidence, management believes expected future taxable income is not likely
to support the use of a deduction or credit in that jurisdiction. We evaluate the level of our
valuation allowances at least annually, and more frequently if actual operating results differ
significantly from forecasted results.

We assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets and the need for a valuation allowance based
on the requirements of SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  SFAS No. 109 requires us to
analyze all positive and negative evidence to determine if, based on the weight of available
evidence, we are more likely than not to realize the benefit of our net deferred tax assets. The
recognition of a valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets and the related tax provision
is based upon our conclusions regarding, among other considerations, our estimates of future
earnings based on information currently available. Because of the operating losses we incurred in
2004 and 2005, and based on current projections of 2006 taxable income, we established a non-cash
valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. We do not expect to record tax expense or
benefits on U.S.-based operating results until we are consistently profitable on a quarterly basis.
At that time, the valuation allowance will be reassessed and could be eliminated, resulting in the
recognition of the deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance provided against deferred tax
assets is $14,613 at December 31, 2005, $8,658 of this amount represents deferred tax assets
established in prior years with the balance reflecting deferred tax assets generated as the result
of 2005 taxable losses. We recorded a tax provision of $8,153 in 2005 as the result of
establishing a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets during the fourth quarter of 2005
(see disclosure in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K).

ITEM 7A.  
       
      QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Impact of Interest Rate Changes 

The amounts borrowed under our Bank of America credit facility are at variable interest rates,
and we are subject to market risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations. As of December
31, 2005, we had no amount outstanding under our facility. As of December 31, 2005, the
marginal interest rate on available borrowings under our credit facility was 7.5%.

Impact of Foreign Currency Fluctuation 

Approximately 11% of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, and we are subject to
market risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In certain
instances, we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts in order to reduce exposure to
changes in foreign currency exchange rates that affect the value of our firm commitments and
certain
anticipated foreign currency cash flows. We currently intend to continue to enter into such
contracts to hedge against future material foreign currency exchange rate risks.

29

Table of Contents   

As of December 31, 2005, our Logistix (U.K.) subsidiary entered into foreign currency forward
contracts aggregating 2,203 GBP to sell Euros in exchange for GBP and to sell GBP in exchange
for U.S. dollars. The contracts will expire by September 2006. At December 31, 2005, these
foreign currency forward contracts had an estimated fair value of 45 GBP ($77 U.S. dollars).
These foreign currency forward contracts are designated as a cash flow hedge of inventory purchases from vendors and cash
receipts from customers related to Marketing Services programs. The fair value of the foreign currency
forward contracts is recorded in prepaid expenses in the consolidated balance sheet as of
December 31, 2005. The unrealized gain on the contracts is reflected in accumulated other
comprehensive income.

30

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
 EMAK Worldwide, Inc. and Subsidiaries

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2004 and 2005
and the related consolidated statements of operations, of stockholders  equity and mandatorily
redeemable preferred stock, of comprehensive income (loss) and of cash flows present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of EMAK Worldwide, Inc. and its subsidiaries
(the  Company ) at December 31, 2004 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our
audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). These standards require that we plan and perform
the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Los Angeles, California 
March 30, 2006

31

Table of Contents   

EMAK
WORLDWIDE, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  
(in thousands, except share and per share data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

32

Table of Contents   

EMAK
WORLDWIDE, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  
(in thousands, except share and per share data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

33

Table of Contents   

EMAK
WORLDWIDE, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY AND MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK  
(in thousands, except share data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

34

Table of Contents   

EMAK WORLDWIDE, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 

(in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

35

Table of Contents   

EMAK WORLDWIDE, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

(in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements .

36

Table of Contents   

EMAK WORLDWIDE, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

DECEMBER 31, 2005 
(IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA) 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

EMAK Worldwide, Inc., a Delaware corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ), is a leading
global integrated marketing services company. We focus on the design and execution of
strategy-based marketing programs providing measurable results for our clients. EMAK has
expertise in the areas of: strategic planning and research, entertainment marketing, design
and manufacturing of custom promotional products, promotion, event marketing, collaborative
marketing, retail design and environmental branding. EMAK is headquartered in Los Angeles,
with operations in Chicago, Ontario (California), Frankfurt, London, Paris, the Netherlands,
Hong Kong and Shanghai. The Company primarily sells to customers in the United States and
Europe. The Company s functional currency is the U.S. dollar.

Principles of Consolidation 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries. All significant accounts and transactions between the Company and its
subsidiaries have been eliminated in consolidation.

Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

The Company considers all highly liquid short-term investments with a maturity at the date of
purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Short-term investments included in
cash and cash equivalents are valued at cost, which approximates fair value as of December 31,
2004 and 2005.

Marketable Securities 

In accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No.
115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,  the Company
determines the appropriate classification of marketable securities at the time of purchase and
re-evaluates such designation at each balance sheet date. Marketable securities are
classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair value. The Company had no marketable
securities as of December 31, 2004 and 2005.

The cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of
discounts to maturity. Such amortization, interest income, realized gains and losses and
declines in value judged to be other than temporary are included in interest income and
expense. The cost of securities sold is based on specific identification.

Revenue Recognition 

For product related sales, the Company records revenues when title and risk of loss pass to
the customer. When a right of return exists, the Company s practice is to estimate and provide
for any future returns at the time of sale, in accordance with SFAS No. 48,  Revenue
Recognition When Right of Return Exists.  Accruals for customer discounts and rebates and
defective returns are recorded as the related revenues are recognized.

Service revenues include all amounts that are billable to clients under service contracts.
Service-related revenues are recognized on a time and materials basis, or on a straight-line
basis, depending on the contract. In the case of fee and production arrangements, the
revenues are recognized as the services are performed, which is generally ratably over the
period of the client contract. Revenues from time and materials service contracts are
recognized as the services are rendered. Revenues from fixed price retainer contracts are
recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term. Losses on contracts are
recognized during the period in which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably
estimable. Reimbursements, including those relating to travel and other out-of-pocket
expenses, and other similar third-party costs, such as printing costs, are included in
revenues, and an equivalent amount of reimbursable expenses are included in cost of sales.
Service revenues, excluding reimbursements for outside costs, for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 totaled $18,508, $16,985
and $21,900, respectively. Unbilled revenues represent revenues recognized in advance of
billings rendered based on work performed to date on certain service contracts. Unbilled
revenues as of December 31, 2004 and 2005 totaled $2,100 and $1,322, respectively. Unbilled
revenues are recorded in accounts receivable in the accompanying consolidated

37

Table of Contents   

balance sheets as of December 31, 2004 and 2005. Unbilled revenues are expected to be billed
and collected within the next six months.

In May 2003, the Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) issued Issue No. 00-21,  Accounting for
Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.  EITF Issue No. 00-21 provides guidance on
how to determine when an arrangement that involves multiple revenue-generating activities or
deliverables should be divided into separate units of accounting for revenue recognition
purposes, and if this division is required, how the arrangement consideration should be
allocated among the separate units of accounting. The guidance in this Issue is effective for
revenue arrangements entered into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003. Under
contractual arrangements with Burger King, creative services are a separate deliverable from
manufacturing services. As a result, the Company is required to record the creative revenues
when the specification and engineering package is delivered to and accepted by Burger King.

The Company s revenue recognition policies are in compliance with the Securities and Exchange
Commission s Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 101,  Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements,  and SAB No. 104,  Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements. 

Inventories 

Inventories consist of (a) production-in-process which primarily represents tooling costs
which are deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the products and deferred costs on
service contracts for which revenue has been deferred and (b) purchased finished goods held
for sale to customers and purchased finished goods in transit to customers  distribution
centers. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market. As of December 31,
2004 and 2005, inventories consisted of the following:

Fixed Assets 

Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation
and amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives as follows:

Leasehold improvements   lesser of lease term or life of related asset 
Furniture, fixtures, equipment, hardware and software   3-7 years

Betterments, which extend the life or add value to fixed assets are capitalized and depreciated
over their remaining useful life. Repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.

In October 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 144,  Accounting
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  SFAS No. 144 requires that long-lived assets
be measured at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell, whether reported
in continuing operations or in discontinued operations. SFAS No. 144 is effective for 2002 and
generally is to be applied prospectively. The Company adopted SFAS No. 144 beginning January 1,
2002. The impact of such adoption did not have a material effect on the Company s financial
statements.

Goodwill and Other Intangibles 

Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  the carrying value of
assets acquired, including goodwill, are reviewed annually. During such a review the Company will
estimate the fair value of the reporting unit to which the assets were assigned by discounting the
reporting unit s estimated future cash flows before interest. As of December 31, 2005 the Company had six reporting
units: Equity Marketing, Upshot, SCI Promotion, Logistix (U.K.), Logistix (U.S.) and Pop Rocket. The Company compares the discounted future cash flows to the carrying value of the acquired
net assets to determine if an impairment loss has occurred. If such assets are considered to be
impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of
the assets exceeds their estimated fair values. In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company
performed the impairment test required by SFAS No. 142 and determined that a portion of the
goodwill resulting from acquisitions was impaired as of December 31, 2005. As a result, the
Company recorded a non-cash charge in the amount of $30,970 to write-down the carrying value of
goodwill and other intangibles related to several acquisitions (see Note 3). In the fourth quarter
of 2004, we recorded a non-cash charge in the amount of $6,312 to write-down the carrying value of
the Upshot goodwill (see Note 3).

The change in the carrying amount of goodwill from $41,723 as of December 31, 2004 to $12,855 as of
December 31, 2005 reflects: a decrease of $28,445 for impairments of goodwill (see Note 3), a
decrease due to a foreign currency translation adjustment of $1,828, an adjustment to reflect the decrease to
goodwill for the Upshot acquisition of $75, an adjustment to reflect the net increase to goodwill
for Megaprint Group of $1,223 (see Note 4) and $257 for earnout consideration related to the
acquisition of Johnson Grossfield (see Note 4). The $75

 38

Table of Contents   

adjustment to goodwill for the Upshot acquisition reflects the return of purchase price from the
seller as a result of the settlement of claims made by the Company. All of the goodwill balance
relates to the Marketing Services segment.

The change in the carrying amount of identifiable intangibles from $3,686 as of December 31, 2004
to $712 as of December 31, 2005 reflects: a decrease of $2,525 for impairments of identifiable
intangible assets (see Note 3), a decrease of $344 for amortization
expense and a decrease due to a foreign currency
translation adjustment of $105. A portion of identifiable intangibles are subject to amortization
and are reflected as other intangibles in the consolidated balance sheets.

Other intangibles are summarized as follows:

The Equity Marketing trademark is being amortized over an estimated useful life of 10 years.

In December 2005, as a result of the annual impairment test, the Company changed its estimate
of useful life of the Logistix trademark from having an indefinite life to an estimated useful
life of 10 years. The Logistix trademark will be amortized prospectively beginning December
31, 2005. The licensing, royalty and standstill agreements along with the customer contracts
and related customer relationships acquired in the purchase of Logistix were amortized over
the lives of the respective agreements which ranged from 2 to 3 years and were fully amortized
as of December 31, 2003. The sales order backlog was also acquired in the purchase of
Logistix and was fully amortized as of December 31, 2001.

The customer contracts and related customer relationships acquired in the purchase of Upshot
are amortized over the lives of the respective agreements which range from 6 to 12 months and
were fully amortized as of December 31, 2003. Sales order backlog was also acquired in the
purchase of Upshot and was fully amortized as of December 31, 2002.

The customer contracts and related customer relationships acquired in the purchase of SCI
Promotion were being amortized over an estimated useful life of 5 years. In December 2005, as
a result of the annual impairment test which resulted in a write-down of the remaining balance
of SCI Promotion customer contracts and related customer relationships (see Note 3), the
Company changed its estimate of the remaining life of the SCI Promotion customer relationships
to one year. Sales order backlog was also acquired in the purchase of SCI Promotion and was
fully amortized as of December 31, 2003.

The
customer relationship and non-competition agreements acquired in the purchase of Johnson
Grossfield was being amortized over estimated useful lives of 2 years to 12 years. In 2005,
the Company was notified the relationship between Johnson Grossfield and Subway Restaurants
would be terminated. As a result, the entire remaining balance of Johnson Grossfield customer
relationships was written off. (See Note 3).

The customer relationships acquired in the purchase of Megaprint Group were being amortized
over an estimated useful life of 15 years. In December 2005, the Company performed the annual
impairment test which resulted in a write-off of the remaining balance of Megaprint Group
customer contracts and related customer relationships. Sales order backlog was also acquired
in the purchase of Megaprint Group and was fully amortized as of December 31, 2005. (See Note
3).

Useful lives for customer contracts and related customer relationships are determined based on
the average historical lives of customer relationships for each respective acquisition.
Useful lives for licensing, royalty and standstill agreements, non-competition agreements and
sales order backlog are based on the terms of the underlying contractual agreements. For the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, amortization expense related to other
intangibles amounted to $309, $363 and $344, respectively.

39

Table of Contents   

The expected future amortization expense related to other intangibles is as follows:

Due to Customer 

Pursuant to the terms of certain contracts between the Company and a promotions customer, the
Company collects fees from the customer s distribution companies on behalf of that customer.
Once these fees are collected from the distribution companies, the Company remits the fees to
the customer. As of December 31, 2004 and 2005, the amounts due to customer were $3,741 and
$2,795, respectively.

Income Taxes 

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income
Taxes,  which requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected
future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements or tax
returns, but not both. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined
based on the difference between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and
liabilities using the tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected
to reverse. (See Note 9).

Stock-Based Compensation 

In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  
Transition and Disclosure.  SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,  to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the
fair-value for stock-based employee compensation. In addition, SFAS No. 148 amends the
disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and
interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. SFAS No. 148 is effective
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2002.

On December 15, 2005, the Board of Directors approved the acceleration of vesting of unvested and
 out-of-the-money  non-qualified stock options previously awarded to employees, officers and
directors with option exercise prices equal to or greater than $7.18 effective as of December 15,
2005. Both the Company s non-employee directors and the Chief Executive Officer have entered into
a Resale Restriction Agreement which imposes restrictions on the sale of any shares received
through the exercise of accelerated options until the earlier of the original vesting dates set
forth in the option or their termination of service. The accelerated options represented all of
the outstanding Company options.

The Board of Directors  decision to accelerate the vesting of these options was in anticipation of
compensation expense to be recorded subsequent to the applicable effective date of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment ( SFAS 123R ) which, as
amended, is January 1, 2006 for the Company. SFAS 123R requires companies to recognize the
grant-date fair value of stock options issued to employees as an expense in the income statement,
and as of the applicable effective date will require the Company to recognize the compensation
costs related to share-based payment transactions, including stock options. In addition, the Board
of Directors considered that because these options had exercise prices in excess of the current
market value, they were not fully achieving their original objectives of incentive compensation and
employee retention. The future compensation expense to be recorded upon adoption of SFAS 123R that
is eliminated as a result of the acceleration of the vesting of these options is approximately
$1,100.

40

Table of Contents   

At December 31, 2005, the Company currently has three stock-based compensation plans that are
described in Note 8. In accordance with provisions of SFAS No. 123, the Company applies APB
Opinion 25 and related interpretations in accounting for its stock plans and, accordingly, does not
recognize compensation cost for grants whose exercise price equals the market price of the stock on
the date of grant. If the Company had elected to recognize compensation cost based on the fair
value of the options granted at grant date as prescribed by SFAS No. 123, net income (loss) and
earnings (loss) per share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated in the table
below:

(a) Determined under fair value based method for all awards, net of tax. 

Because the SFAS No. 123 method of accounting has not been applied to options granted prior to
January 1, 1995, the resulting pro forma compensation cost may not be representative of the
cost to be expected in future years.

The fair value of each stock option is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following assumptions:

The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2003, 2004 and 2005 is $5.89, $6.23
and $1.79, respectively.

The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of
traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition,
option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the
expected stock price volatility. Because the Company s stock options have characteristics
significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective
input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, the existing models, in
management s opinion, do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value
of its stock options.

Net Income Per Share 

Basic net income (loss) per share ( EPS ) is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to
common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period.
Net income (loss) available to common stockholders represents reported net income (loss) less
preferred stock dividend requirements and undistributed earnings allocated to participating
preferred stock.

Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to
issue shares of the Company s stock, $0.01 par value ( Common Stock ) were exercised or converted
into Common Stock. Diluted EPS includes in-the-money options and warrants using the treasury stock
method and also includes the assumed conversion of preferred stock using the if-converted method.
Options and warrants to purchase 1,318,666, 2,757,378 and 2,650,636 shares of the Company s Common
Stock, for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, were excluded from the
computation of diluted EPS as they would have been anti-dilutive. For the years ended December 31,
2003, 2004 and 2005, preferred stock convertible into 1,694,915 shares of Common Stock was excluded
from the computation of diluted EPS.

41

Table of Contents   

Earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2003 reflects a restatement pursuant to Emerging
Issues Task Force Issue No. 03-6,  Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under SFAS No.
128, Earnings Per Share  ( EITF 03-6 ). EITF 03-6 requires that companies with participating
securities calculate earnings per share using a two-class method. The Company s Series A cumulative
participating mandatorily redeemable preferred stock ( Series A Stock ) qualified as  participating
securities  since it was entitled to dividends declared on the
Company s Common Stock; therefore,
EITF 03-6 required the allocation of a portion of undistributed earnings to preferred stock. As a
result, earnings per basic common share, as reported in the prior years, was reduced by $0.26 to
$0.87 for the year ended December 31, 2003. The earnings per diluted common share, as reported in
the prior years, was reduced by $0.20 to $0.83 for the year ended December 31, 2003. EITF 03-6 had
no impact on 2004 and 2005 per share amounts because of the net loss. The Series A Stock was
exchanged by the holder for an equivalent number of shares of non-participating preferred stock on
December 30, 2004 (See Note 8.)

The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted EPS
computation for  income available to common shareholders  and other disclosures required by SFAS
No. 128,  Earnings per Share  and EITF 03-6:

Royalties 

The Company enters into agreements to license intellectual properties such as trademarks,
copyrights and patents. The agreements may call for minimum amounts of royalties to be paid
in advance and throughout the term of the agreement, which are non-refundable in the event
that product sales fail to meet certain minimum levels. Advance royalties resulting from such
transactions are stated at the lower of the amounts paid or the amounts estimated to be
recoverable from future sales of the related products. Furthermore, minimum guaranteed
royalty commitments are reviewed on a periodic basis to ensure that amounts are recoverable
based on estimates of future sales of the products under license. A loss provision is
recorded in the consolidated statements of operations to the extent that future minimum
royalty guarantee commitments are not recoverable. Estimated future sales are projected based
on historical experience, including that of similar products, and anticipated advertising and
marketing support by the licensor. (See Note 2.)

Concentration of Risk 

Burger King accounted for approximately 58%, 51% and 52% of the Company s total revenues for
the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. The Company regularly extends
credit to distribution companies in connection with its business with Burger King, which
includes Supply Chain Services, LLC ( SCS ), a subsidiary of Burger King s franchisee
purchasing cooperative Restaurant Services, Inc ( RSI ). The Company began selling product to
SCS in October 2003. Because of RSI s established credit history, as well as the payment
history of SCS, the Company does not believe that this increase in concentration of
receivables has negatively impacted the overall credit risk. Failure by SCS or one or more
distribution companies to honor their payment obligations could have a material adverse effect
on the Company s operations. The largest such distribution company accounted for 17.9%, 80.2%
and 84.8% of the products purchased from us by the Burger King system for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. The largest such distribution company
accounted for 19.2% and 30.3% of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2004 and 2005,
respectively.

The Company purchases 93% of its manufactured products from suppliers located in China. China
currently enjoys normal trade relations ( NTR ) status under US tariff laws, which provides a
favorable category of US import duties. China s NTR status became permanent on January 1,
2002, following enactment of a bill authorizing such status upon China s accession to the
World Trade Organization, which occurred in December 2001. This substantially reduces the
possibility of China losing its NTR status, which would result in increased costs for the
Company. The impact of such an event on the Company could be somewhat mitigated by the
Company s ability to source product for the U.S. market from countries other than China.
However, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to obtain manufactured
products under acceptable terms.

42

Table of Contents   

Supplemental Cash Flow Information 

During 2005, the Company sold a portion of its excess inventory to a customer in exchange for
credits toward future purchases of advertising media. The credits were valued at $431 and can be
used over a period of five years. In 2004, the Company sold excess inventory for credits valued at
$438. The value of the remaining credits as of December 31, 2005 was $716, net of $153 credits
utilized in 2005. These credits are recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheet.

Comprehensive Income 

The Company computes comprehensive income (loss) pursuant to SFAS No. 130,  Reporting
Comprehensive Income.  This statement establishes standards for the reporting and display of
comprehensive income (loss) and its components in financial statements and thereby reports a
measure of all changes in equity of an enterprise that result from transactions and other
economic events other than transactions with owners. Total comprehensive income (loss) for
the Company includes net income (loss) and other comprehensive income (loss) items, including
unrealized gains or losses on foreign exchange forward contracts and cumulative foreign
currency translation adjustments.

Shipping and Handling Costs 

In accordance with the Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 00-10,  Accounting for Shipping and
Handling Fees and Costs,  the Company classifies all amounts billed to customers related to
shipping and handling as revenues. Shipping and handling costs are recorded in selling,
general and administrative expenses. For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005
such costs totaled $2,312, $1,799, and $1,003, respectively.

Foreign Currency Translation 

Net foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities
of foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar are recognized as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders  equity. For subsidiaries
with transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency, net foreign
exchange transaction gains or losses are included in determining net income. For the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, the net transaction gain (loss) on
foreign exchange of $438, $(628) and $342 were recorded in other income (expense) in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

In accordance with the SFAS No. 52,  Foreign Currency Translation,  the financial statements
of Logistix and Megaprint Group are translated into U.S. dollars as follows: assets and
liabilities at year-end exchange rates; income and expenses at average exchange rates; and
shareholders  equity at historical exchange rates. Since the functional currency of Logistix
and Megaprint Group is the British Pound ( GBP ), the resulting translation adjustment is
recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheet. Translation adjustments are not tax-effected since they relate to
investments which are permanent in nature.

Derivative Instruments 

The Company adopted SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, 
as amended which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and for
hedging activities. SFAS No. 133 requires that an entity recognize derivatives as either assets or
liabilities on the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value. The accounting for
changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the
resulting designation.

The Company designates its derivatives based upon criteria established by SFAS No. 133. For a
derivative designated as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss is recognized in earnings in the
period of change together with the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributed to the
risk being hedged. For a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the
derivative s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The
ineffective portion of the gain or loss is reported in earnings immediately.

The Company uses derivatives to manage exposures to foreign currency. The Company s objective for
holding derivatives is to decrease the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with
changes in foreign currency. The Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to
minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on foreign currency receivables,
investments, and payables. The gains and losses on the foreign exchange forward contracts offset
the transaction gains and losses on the foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables
recognized in earnings. The Company does not enter into foreign exchange forward contracts for
trading purposes. Gains and losses on the contracts are included in other income (expense) in the
consolidated statement of operations and offset foreign exchange gains or losses from the
revaluation of intercompany balances or other current assets, investments, and liabilities
denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting entity.

As of December 31, 2005, our Logistix subsidiary entered into foreign currency forward contracts
aggregating 2,203 GBP to sell Euros in exchange for GBP and to sell
GBP in exchange for U.S. dollars.
The contracts will expire by September 2006. At December 31, 2005, these foreign currency forward
contracts had an estimated fair value of 45 GBP ($77 U.S. dollars). These foreign currency forward
contracts are designated as a cash flow hedge of inventory purchases
from vendors and cash receipts from customers related to Marketing
Services programs. The fair value of the

43

Table of Contents   

foreign currency forward contracts is recorded in prepaid expenses in the consolidated balance
sheet as of December 31, 2005. The unrealized gain on the contracts is reflected in accumulated
other comprehensive income.

Advertising 

Production costs of commercials and programming are charged to expense in the period during
which the production is first aired. The costs of other advertising, promotion and marketing
programs are charged to expense in the period incurred.

Reclassifications 

Certain
reclassifications have been made to the 2004 Consolidated Financial
Statements to conform them to the 2005 presentation. Borrowings and
Repayments under line of credit have been broken out and shown as
gross amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In September 2004, the consensus of EITF Issue No. 04-10,  Applying Paragraph 19 of Financial
Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) FASB Statement No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information,  in Determining Whether to Aggregate Operating Segments That Do
Not Meet the Quantitative Thresholds,  was published. EITF Issue No. 04-10 addresses how an
enterprise should evaluate the aggregation criteria of SFAS No. 131 when determining whether
operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds may be aggregated in accordance
with SFAS No. 131. The consensus in EITF 04-10 should be applied for fiscal years ending after
September 15, 2005. Adoption
of this issue did not have a significant effect on the Company s consolidated financial condition or
results of operations.

In June 2005, the FASB issued EITF Issue No. 05-06, Determining the Amortization Period for
Leasehold Improvements Purchased after Lease Inception or Acquired in a Business Combination,
( EITF 05-06 ) to address issues related to the amortization period for leasehold improvements
acquired in a business combination or placed in service after and not contemplated at the beginning
of the lease term. The Task Force reached a consensus that these types of leasehold improvements
should be amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the assets or a term that includes
required lease periods and renewals that are deemed to be reasonably assured at the date of the
acquisition or the date the leasehold improvements are purchased. This consensus does not apply to
preexisting leasehold improvements, but should be applied to leasehold improvements that are
purchased or acquired in reporting periods beginning after June 29, 2005. The application of this
consensus did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition.

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs An Amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4.  SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  of Accounting
Research Bulletin ( ARB ) No. 43,  Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins,  to
clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and
wasted material ( spoilage ). Among other provisions, the statement requires that items such as
idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight, and rehandling costs be recognized as
current-period charges regardless of whether they meet the criterion of  so abnormal  as stated in
ARB No. 43. Additionally, SFAS No. 151 requires that the allocation of fixed production overheads
to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No.
151 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company is currently
evaluating the effect that the adoption of SFAS No. 151 will have on its results of operations and
financial position, but does not expect it to have a material impact.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) ( SFAS No. 123(R) ), Share-Based
Payment, which replaced SFAS No. 123 and superseded APB Opinion No. 25. SFAS No. 123(R) requires
all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized
in the financial statements based on their fair values. The pro forma disclosures previously
permitted under SFAS No. 123 will no longer be an alternative to financial statement recognition.
Under SFAS No. 123(R), we must determine the appropriate fair value method to be used for valuing
share-based payments, the expense attribution method for compensation cost and the transition
method to be used at the time of adoption. The transition methods include prospective and
retroactive adoption options. The prospective method requires that compensation cost be recorded
for all unvested stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units beginning in the first
quarter of adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), whereas the retroactive method requires recording
compensation cost for all unvested stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units
beginning with the first period restated.

In April 2005, the Securities Exchange Commission amended Rule S-X to delay the effective date for
compliance with SFAS No. 123(R). Based on the amended rule, we are required to adopt SFAS No.
123(R) on January 1, 2006. In 2006, the Company plans to use the prospective method of adoption
under SFAS No. 123(R), and for new grants, to attribute expense to the service periods through the
straight-line method. In December 2005, the Board of Directors approved the acceleration of
vesting of all outstanding unvested stock options primarily to avoid future compensation expense
for those stock options, all of which were out-of-the money. The Company s directors and CEO
entered into restriction agreements with respect to their accelerated options prohibiting the
resale of shares acquired upon exercise until the original vesting dates of the options. The
future compensation expense to be recorded upon adoption of SFAS 123R that is eliminated as a
result of the acceleration of the vesting of these options is approximately $1,100. The Company is
evaluating the requirements of SFAS No. 123(R) and expects the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) may
negatively impact its results of operations; however, the amount and materiality of the impact will
depend on the amount and type of share-based payments granted in future periods.

44

Table of Contents   

In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143  ( FIN 47 ), which requires an entity to
recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred
if the liability s fair value can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 is effective for fiscal years
ending after December 15, 2005. FIN 47 did not have a material impact on the Company s
consolidated statements of operations and financial condition.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections-a replacement of
APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.  This Statement requires retrospective application to
prior periods  financial statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable
to determine the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. This
pronouncement will be effective December 15, 2005. Currently, the Company does not have changes in
accounting principle; therefore, the adoption of SFAS 154 will not have any impact on its financial
position or results of operations.

In October 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) 13-1,  Accounting for Rental Costs
Incurred During a Construction Period.  FSP 13-1 requires rental costs associated with ground or
building operating leases that are incurred during a construction period to be recognized as rental
expense. FSP 13-1 applies to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. Retrospective
application in accordance with FASB SFAS No. 154  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,  is
permitted but not required. The Company does not believe that the adoption of FSP 13-1 will have a
significant impact on its operations or financial position.

2. RESTRUCTURING CHARGE AND MINIMUM ROYALTY GUARANTEE SHORTFALLS 

In 2003, the Company recorded a restructuring charge of $424 which represents severance for
workforce reductions at Upshot. The Upshot business did not achieve the expected level of
contribution in 2003 which is primarily attributable to reduced marketing expenditures by some of
its larger clients. In order to bring its cost structure in line with the current business volume,
the Company eliminated eight positions at Upshot in December 2003. All but $25 of this
restructuring charge was paid as of December 31, 2004 (a $25 restructuring gain was recorded in
2004 see below). This charge was partially offset by a $190 reversal of a restructuring reserve
that the Company established in 1998 relating to former Consumer Products licenses. This reversal
is attributable to the expiration of certain contractual rights.

In 2004, the Company formulated and implemented a restructuring plan in connection with the
realignment of centralized resources in its Marketing Services business in order to combine and
streamline the operations. In connection with this plan the Company recorded a restructuring
charge of $81. This charge represents severance for one employee in the Company s Los Angeles
office, whose position was eliminated, and is reflected as a restructuring charge in the
accompanying consolidated statement of operations. All of this restructuring charge was paid as of
December 31, 2004. During the third quarter of 2004 there was a restructuring gain of $25 that
represented a reversal of a portion of the 2003 restructuring charge related to the severance for
workforce reductions at Upshot.

In 2004, management finalized a decision to pursue the wind down
of a substantial majority of the
Company s Consumer Products business, Pop Rocket. As a result of the Pop Rocket wind down, in the
fourth quarter of 2004, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $7,722 relating to minimum royalty
guarantee shortfalls on several of its consumer products licenses. This charge was determined
based on contractual commitments as of December 31, 2004 and reflected the Company s decision not
to fully exploit these licenses. Approximately $3,000 of this pre-tax charge was a non-cash
write-off of long-term royalty advances. The charge was recorded as minimum royalty guarantee
shortfalls in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31,
2004.

On May 18, 2005, the Company reached a settlement with one of its licensors affecting several
licenses. Under the terms of the settlement, the Company agreed to forgo its rights to certain
licensed properties for 2006 and 2007 in exchange for a reduction in the overall royalty
guarantees. The Company retained product distribution rights under the licenses for 2005. As a
result of this settlement, its overall commitment for royalty guarantees was reduced by
approximately $4,000. The Company was required to pay the licensor a total of $1,800 through March
31, 2006. As a result of this settlement and higher than expected Scooby-Doo  revenues that
exceeded the initial estimates, $2,837 of the 2004 charge for minimum royalty guarantee shortfalls
was reversed in 2005. The reversal was recorded as a minimum royalty guarantee shortfall gain in
the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005. The
Company continues to monitor royalty accruals in light of the wind down and continues its
negotiations with licensors for the termination of other license agreements.

In 2005, in connection with the wind down of Pop Rocket, the Company incurred a charge for one-time
employee termination benefits and other costs totaling approximately $746. Such costs are recorded
as a restructuring charge in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year
ended December 31, 2005. The entire amount is attributable to the Consumer Products segment. Of
the $746 of costs incurred to date, $513 has been paid as of December 31, 2005.

In 2005, the Company eliminated several centralized corporate positions as a result of a
realignment of centralized resources. As a result, the Company incurred a charge for one-time
employee termination benefits and other costs totaling approximately $622 in 2005. Such costs are
recorded as a restructuring charge in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the
year ended December 31, 2005. The entire amount is attributable to the Corporate segment. Of the
$622 of costs incurred to date, $261 has been paid as of December 31,

45

Table of Contents   

2005. The Company expects to incur additional costs in 2006 of approximately $165. The remaining
costs are expected to be paid by August 31, 2006.

In 2005, the Company eliminated several positions at Logistix (U.K.) as a result of a less than
optimal staff utilization rate resulting from a decrease in revenues. In connection with this
decision, the Company incurred charges for one-time employee termination benefits and other costs
totaling $568 in 2005. Such costs are recorded as a restructuring charge in the consolidated
statements of operations. The entire amount is attributable to the Marketing Services segment. Of
the $568 of costs incurred to date, $137 has been paid as of December 31, 2005.

In 2005, the Company made the determination to close Johnson Grossfield s Minneapolis office
effective October 31, 2005. The Company recorded a charge of approximately $192 for one-time
employee termination benefits related to the closure of the Minneapolis office. Such costs are
recorded as a restructuring charge in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for
2005. The entire amount is attributable to the Marketing Services segment. Of the $192 of costs
incurred to date, $96 has been paid as of December 31, 2005. The remaining costs are expected to be
paid by June 30, 2006.

In 2005, the Company made a decision to reorganize and consolidate SCI Promotion s offices in
Ontario, California with its Los Angeles office. The Company recorded a charge for one-time
employee termination benefits and other costs totaling $640 in 2005. Such costs are recorded as a
restructuring charge in the consolidated statements of operations. The entire amount is
attributable to the Marketing Services segment. Of the $640 of costs incurred to date, $110 has
been paid as of December 31, 2005.

In 2005,
the Company made the determination to sublease approximately
15,000 square feet of our Los Angeles office space.
The space was sublet effective December 15, 2005 for a term ending December 31, 2009 (the
expiration of the master lease term). The Company recorded a charge of $184 for the estimated loss
on the sublease over the term. Such costs are recorded as a restructuring charge in the
consolidated statement of operations for 2005. The entire amount is attributable to the corporate
segment. Of the $184 of costs incurred to date, $0 has been amortized as of December 31, 2005.

3. IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS 

Refer to Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   Goodwill and Other Intangibles 
for discussion of goodwill impairment.

During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company performed its annual impairment review for goodwill
and other intangible assets and recorded a non-cash charge of $6,312. The charge was required to
reduce the carrying value of goodwill at Upshot. The Upshot impairment charge reflects the
reporting unit s lower than expected performance in 2004 and revised future projections resulting
from the loss of a significant client in the fourth quarter of 2004. This charge was calculated in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142 utilizing a present value based valuation technique
based on the best available projections as of December 31, 2004 of Upshot s future cash flows
before interest. This impairment charge was recorded as impairment of assets in the accompanying
consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004 and was reflected in the
Marketing Services segment.

On August 9, 2005, the Company was notified by the Subway Franchisee Advertising Fund Trust
( SFAFT ) that following completion of fulfillment on Subway Restaurant s kids meal programs by
Johnson Grossfield in November 2005, the relationship between Johnson Grossfield and Subway
Restaurants will be terminated. As a result, the Company recorded a charge of $3,431 for the
impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets of Johnson Grossfield. Of the $3,431 impairment
charge $1,449 was attributable to goodwill and $1,982 was attributable to other intangible assets.
The carrying value remaining of the goodwill and other intangible assets as of December 31, 2005
was $0. The impairment of assets charge was recorded in the consolidated statement of operations
for the year ended December 31, 2005 and was reflected in the Marketing Services segment.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, we incurred a goodwill impairment charge of $10,838 for the SCI
Promotion reporting unit in connection with the annual impairment test required by SFAS No. 142.
This charge was calculated utilizing a discounted cash flow model based on the best available
projections as of December 31, 2005 of SCI Promotion s future cash flows. Such projections were
formulated in the fourth quarter of 2005 and were negatively impacted
by the continuing trend of department store
consolidation, and its industry-specific challenges which have resulted in smaller marketing
budgets, fewer programs and smaller program sizes. Competitive pressures and materials cost
increases in Asia have also compressed margins. Included in the impairment analysis for the SCI
Promotion reporting unit is $8,318 of goodwill related to the business of U.S. Import   Promotion,
Co. ( USI ), which is the Company s seasonal toy and promotions business catering to the oil and
gas retailers. USI was acquired in 1998 and later merged with SCI because its client base and
offerings were complementary to SCI s. Of the $10,838 impairment charge, $10,578 was attributable
to goodwill and $260 was attributable to other intangible assets of SCI Promotion. The remaining
carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets of SCI Promotion as of December 31, 2005 was
$2,580 and $71, respectively. The impairment of assets charge was recorded in the consolidated
statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 and was reflected in the Marketing
Services segment.

46

Table of Contents   

Effective January 1, 2005, the Megaprint Group was consolidated with the Logistix (U.K.) reporting
unit, because its client base and service offerings were complementary to Logistix. As a result,
the balance of Megaprint Group goodwill and other intangibles is analyzed in connection with the
annual impairment test for the Logistix (U.K.) reporting unit. Throughout 2004, Logistix (U.K.)
won all of its largest client s pan-European programs. The agency had a long string of consecutive
wins, and it did not repeat this win rate in 2005. Additionally, this client has reduced the
number and size of its promotional programs. Based on our most recent projections, which were
formulated in the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company believes this pattern will continue, and as a
result, the Company incurred an impairment charge of $16,701 in the fourth quarter of 2005. This
charge was calculated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142 utilizing a discounted cash
flow model based on the best available projections as of December 31, 2005 of Logistix (U.K) s
future cash flows. Of the $16,701 impairment charge, $16,418 was attributable to goodwill and $283
was attributable to other intangible assets of Logistix (U.K.) and Megaprint Group. The remaining
carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets of Logistix (U.K.), including Megaprint
Group, as of December 31, 2005 was $2,659. The impairment of assets charge was recorded in the
consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 and was reflected in the
Marketing Services segment. The entire remaining balance of $629 of other intangible assets for
Logistix (U.K.) represents the Logistix trademark.

4. ACQUISITIONS 

On July 17, 2002, the Company consummated the acquisition of Upshot, a marketing agency with
expertise in promotion, event, collaborative and environmental marketing. The Company
financed the acquisition through its existing cash reserves.
The acquisition was consummated pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated May 22, 2002,
by and among the Company, Promotional Marketing, LLC ( Promotional Marketing ) and HA-LO
Industries, Inc. ( HA-LO ) (the   Upshot Purchase Agreement ). Under the terms of the Upshot
Purchase Agreement, the Company acquired the principal assets of Promotional Marketing
(consisting of the principal assets used in connection with the operation of the Upshot
business) for $9,206 in cash plus related transaction costs of $685. The Company assumed the
principal current liabilities of the Upshot business in connection with the acquisition. In
2005, $75 of purchase price was returned from the seller as a result of a settlement of claims
made against funds escrowed as security for warranties and indemnification pursuant to the
Upshot Purchase Agreement.

The Upshot acquisition has been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The
financial statements reflect the allocation of the purchase price to the acquired net assets based
on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. During 2003, the preliminary allocation
of the purchase price was adjusted to revise the estimated value of prepaid expenses ($72
increase), deferred tax assets ($1,852 increase), accrued liabilities ($168 decrease) and
non-current liabilities ($4,874 increase). These adjustments resulted in a net increase to goodwill
of $2,782. The adjustments to increase non-current liabilities are attributable to a final
determination of an unfavorable lease liability for Upshot s Chicago, Illinois office totaling
$2,975 and to an adjustment totaling $1,900 due to the finalization of an exit plan (see Note 2)
both of which were contemplated as of the close of the transaction. The unfavorable lease
liability reflects the present value of the lease payments in excess of market for the remaining
term of the Chicago office lease. The increase in deferred tax assets reflects the tax benefit
associated with the increase in non-current liabilities. Subsequent to these adjustments, the
Company s allocation of purchase price for the acquisition, based upon estimated fair values is as
follows:

The intangible assets of $187 are comprised of customer contracts and related customer
relationships and sales order backlog, and are being amortized over estimated useful lives
ranging from 6 to 12 months. Intangible assets associated with the Upshot acquisition are
accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. 
Goodwill has an indefinite life and is not amortized.

In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company performed the annual impairment test required by
SFAS No. 142 and determined that the goodwill resulting from the acquisition of Upshot was
impaired as of December 31, 2004. As a result, the Company recorded a non-cash charge in the
amount of $6,312 to write-down the carrying value of the Upshot goodwill (see Note 3).

On September 3, 2003, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of SCI Promotion, a
privately held promotional marketing services company based in Ontario, California. The Company
financed the acquisition through its existing cash reserves. The acquisition was consummated
pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement dated September 3, 2003 (the  SCI Promotion Purchase
Agreement .) Under the terms of the SCI Promotion Purchase Agreement, the Company acquired
substantially all of the assets of SCI Promotion for a cash

47

Table of Contents   

purchase price of approximately $5,900 (before closing balance sheet working capital adjustment),
plus additional earnout consideration of up to $3,500 based upon future performance of the acquired
business. Net of a holdback of $250, the Company paid $5,683 in cash plus related transaction
costs of $538. The Company also assumed the operating liabilities of the business in connection
with the acquisition. The earnout consideration is based upon the business achieving targeted
levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) over the period
from 2003 through 2006. The earnout payments, if required, are payable 50% in cash and 50% in
shares of the Company s Common Stock. The additional consideration, if any, will be recorded as
goodwill. An earnout of $800 was recorded for 2003 performance and used to offset a receivable
from the seller. No earnouts were payable based upon the 2004 or 2005 performance.

The SCI Promotion acquisition has been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The
financial statements reflect the allocation of the purchase price to the acquired net assets based
on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. During 2004, the preliminary allocation
of the purchase price was adjusted to revise the estimated value of prepaid expenses ($64
decrease), receivable from seller ($55 decrease) and accrued liabilities ($13 increase). The
allocation reflects a receivable from the seller resulting from a closing balance sheet working
capital adjustment of $800, accruing interest at the rate of 5% per annum, that offset additional
earnout consideration based on the results for 2003. The additional earnout consideration was
recorded as additional goodwill in 2004. The Company s allocation of purchase price for the
acquisition, based upon estimated fair values is as follows:

The intangible assets of $728 are comprised of customer contracts and related customer
relationships and sales order backlog, and were being amortized over estimated useful lives ranging
from 4 months to 5 years. Intangible assets associated with the SCI Promotion acquisition are
accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  Goodwill
has an indefinite life and is not amortized.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company performed the annual impairment test required by
SFAS No. 142 and determined that the goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from the
acquisition of SCI Promotion were impaired as of December 31, 2005. As a result, the Company
recorded a non-cash charge in the amount of $2,520 to write-down the carrying value of the SCI
Promotion goodwill and other intangibles. (See Note 3.)

On February 2, 2004 (effective January 31, 2004), the Company acquired certain assets of Johnson
Grossfield, Inc. ( JGI-MN ), a privately held promotional marketing services company based in
Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Company financed the acquisition through its existing cash reserves.
The acquisition was consummated pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement dated January 16, 2004 (the
 Johnson Grossfield Purchase Agreement ). Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company
purchased the assets of JGI-MN s promotional agency business for approximately $4,325 in cash (net
of a holdback of $250) and 35,785 shares of the Company s Common Stock (which, based upon the
January 30, 2004 closing market price of $14.80, had a value of $530), plus related transaction
costs of $184 and a commitment to pay additional earnout consideration of up to $4,500 based upon
future performance of the acquired business. During 2004, additional consideration was paid in the
amount of $105 as a working capital adjustment. The Company also assumed the operating liabilities
of the promotional agency business in connection with the acquisition. The earnout consideration
was based upon the acquired business achieving targeted levels of EBITDA over the period from 2004
through 2008. The earnout payments, if required, were payable 50% in cash and 50% in shares of the
Company s Common Stock. The additional consideration, if any, would be recorded as goodwill. On
April 19, 2005, the Company reached agreement with the sellers of Johnson Grossfield on the amount
of earnout attributable to 2004 performance. Such earnout consideration totaled $257, of which
$148 was paid in cash and the remainder payable in shares of the Company s Common Stock (10,616
shares valued at $109 as of April 19, 2005). This earnout consideration was recorded as goodwill
in the second quarter of 2005. No earnout was payable based upon the 2005 performance.

48

Table of Contents   

The Johnson Grossfield acquisition has been accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. The financial statements reflect the allocation of the purchase price to the
acquired net assets based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The
Company s allocation of purchase price for the Johnson Grossfield acquisition, based upon
estimated fair values is as follows:

The intangible assets of $2,393 were comprised of customer relationships and a non-competition
agreement, and were being amortized over estimated useful lives ranging from 2 years to 12 years.

In 2005, as a result of the loss of Johnson Grossfield s primary client, the Company recorded an
impairment charge to write-off the entire remaining balance Johnson Grossfield goodwill and other
intangible assets (see Note 3).

On November 10, 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Megaprint
Group Limited ( Megaprint Group ), a privately held creative promotions agency headquartered
in the United Kingdom. The Company financed the Megaprint Group acquisition through
short-term debt. The Company paid 1,824 GBP (approximately $3,388) in cash (net of a hold
back for working capital adjustments of 180 GBP), plus related transaction costs of 305 GBP
(approximately $566). Under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, the Company is
committed to pay, subject to offset for any shortfall in the target level of net working
capital at December 31, 2004, a minimum of 850 GBP and up to a maximum of 1,300 GBP in 2005
based on the performance of Megaprint Group for the year ended December 31, 2004 ( 2004
Earnout Payment ). The Company has accrued a liability for the minimum payment of 850 GBP as
purchase price as of the acquisition date. The Company is also committed to pay additional
consideration up to a maximum of 2,450 GBP based on future performance through 2009. The
additional consideration is based upon the business achieving targeted levels of margin after
direct overhead ( MADO ) over the period from 2005 through 2009. During 2005, the preliminary
allocation of the purchase price was adjusted to revise the estimated value of accrued
liabilities ($706 increase). During 2005, an additional 256 GBP (approximately $461) was paid
to the sellers of Megaprint Group for a working capital adjustment. The additional
consideration was recorded as goodwill in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The
Company s preliminary allocation of purchase price for the acquisition, based upon estimated
fair values is as follows:

Included in net current liabilities for the Megaprint Group was a mortgage loan for a building in
the Netherlands (see Note 6). The balance of the mortgage loan as of the acquisition date totaled
approximately 900 Euros (approximately $1,200). The building was recorded under fixed assets and
was recorded at the same value as the balance of the mortgage loan. The building and mortgage loan
were held in trust by the Megaprint Group on behalf of its former shareholders (the  Sellers ). In
June 2005, the Company repaid the mortgage loan. The amount repaid of 900 Euros (approximately
$1,090) was applied against monies owed to the Sellers for the 2004 Earnout Payment. As a result,
in June 2005, the Company paid the sellers 199 GBP (approximately $360) of the 850 GBP owed for the
2004 Earnout Payment. Subsequent to the repayment of the mortgage loan, the building was sold in
June 2005 for 747 Euros (approximately $939). The proceeds from the sale were paid to the Sellers
in the third quarter of 2005.

The intangible assets of $338 are comprised of sales order backlog and customer relationships, and
were being amortized over estimated useful lives ranging from 7 months to 15 years.

Effective January 1, 2005, the Megaprint Group was consolidated with the Logistix (U.K.)
reporting unit, because its client base and service offerings were complementary to Logistix.
In the fourth quarter of 2005, in connection with the Company s annual impairment test of the
Logistix reporting unit, the Company determined that the goodwill and other intangible assets
resulting from the acquisitions of Logistix and Megaprint Group were impaired as of December
31, 2005 (See Note 3).

49

Table of Contents   

Pro Forma Financial Data 

The following selected unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations are presented as if
the Johnson Grossfield and Megaprint Group acquisitions had occurred as of the beginning of the
period immediately preceding the period of acquisition and as if the SCI Promotion acquisition had
occurred at the beginning of 2003 after giving effect to certain adjustments for the amortization
of intangibles, reduced interest income and related income tax effects.

The pro forma data is for informational purposes only and does not necessarily reflect the results
of operations had the businesses operated as one during the period. No effect has been given for
synergies, if any, that may have been realized through the acquisitions.

Refer to Note 1 for further discussion of the method of computation of earnings per share.

5. FIXED ASSETS, NET 

Fixed assets, net is summarized as follows:

For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, depreciation expense related to fixed
assets was $1,636, $1,704 and $1,821, respectively.

6. LINE OF CREDIT 

On April 24, 2001, the Company signed a credit
facility (the  Facility ) with Bank of America. On
April 26, 2004, the maturity date of the Facility was extended through June 30, 2005. Effective
March 30, 2005, the maturity date of the Facility was further extended through March 31, 2006. The
credit facility was collateralized by substantially all of the Company s assets and provided for a
line of credit of up to $20,000 with borrowing availability determined by a formula based on
qualified assets. Interest on outstanding borrowings was based on either a fixed rate
equivalent to LIBOR plus an applicable spread of between 1.50 and 2.25 percent or a variable rate
equivalent to the bank s reference rate plus an applicable spread of between zero and 0.50 percent.
The Company was also required to pay an unused line fee of between zero and 0.60 percent per annum
and certain letter of credit fees. The applicable spread was based on the achievement of certain
financial ratios. As of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, $2,975 and $0, respectively, was
outstanding under the Facility. Effective, March 29, 2006, the Company entered into a new facility
with Bank of America (see Note 14  Subsequent Events ). 

In addition to the Facility, in October, 2003 the Company s Logistix agency in the United Kingdom
established an import/letter of credit facility with Hong Kong Shanghai Bank Corp. ( HSBC ) to
provide short-term financing of product purchases in Asia. The total availability under this
facility is 1,500 GBP. The total availability under this facility was increased from 1,000 GBP to
1,500 GBP in 2005. Under this facility HSBC may pay the agency s vendors directly upon receipt of
invoices and shipping documentation. Logistix (U.K.) in turn is obligated to repay HSBC within 120
days. As of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, $1,797 and $0, respectively, were outstanding
under this facility.

50

Table of Contents   

As of December 31, 2004 and 2005, the marginal interest rate on available borrowings under the
Facility was 3.9% and 7.5%, respectively. As of December 31, 2004 and 2005, the marginal interest
rate on available borrowings under the HSBC Facility was 4.2% and 6.25%, respectively. Letters of
credit outstanding as of December 31, 2004 and 2005 totaled $2,694 and $2,763, respectively.

In connection with the acquisition of Megaprint Group, the Company assumed a mortgage loan (subject
to the guaranty of the former Megaprint Group shareholders) secured by a building in the
Netherlands which the Company held in trust for the benefit of the former shareholders of Megaprint
Group. The mortgage loan had a 24-year term and carried an interest rate fixed at 5 percent per
annum for three years from December 2002. During the quarter ended June 30, 2005, the Company
repaid the remaining balance on the mortgage loan and subsequently sold the building as directed by
the former Megaprint Group shareholders. The Company applied the balance of the mortgage loan
against monies owed to the former Megaprint Group shareholders. The proceeds from the sale of the
building were paid to the sellers of Megaprint Group in the third quarter of 2005 (see Note 4). As
of December 31, 2004, the balance on the mortgage loan was 919 Euros (approximately US $1,253).

Megaprint Group had an overdraft facility of 750 Euros from ING Bank, Nederland. This facility was
cancelled in the quarter ended September 30, 2005. As of December 31, 2004, there were no amounts
outstanding under this facility.

7. DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN 

The Company has a 401(k) Tax Deferred Savings Plan (the  401(k) Plan ), which became effective
on January 1, 1992. The 401(k) Plan covers substantially all of its eligible employees, as
defined under the 401(k) Plan. The Company makes annual contributions to the 401(k) Plan
consisting of a discretionary matching contribution equal to a determined percentage of the
employee s contribution. Costs related to contributions to the 401(k) Plan for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2004, and 2005 were $522, $599 and $730, respectively.

8. EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS 

The Company currently has three equity based compensation plans: the 2000 Stock Option Plan
(the  2000 Employee Plan ), 2004 Non-Employee Director Stock Incentive Plan (the  Non-Employee
Director Plan ) and the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Stock Incentive Plan  and collectively
with 2000 Employee Plan and the Non-Employee Director Plan referred to as the  Equity
Compensation Plans ). A total of 2.1 million shares of Common Stock are reserved for issuance
pursuant to awards granted and to be granted under the Equity Compensation Plans. An
aggregate of 683,914 shares were available for grant under the Equity Compensation Plans as of
December 31, 2005. The 2000 Employee Plan expires in 2010. The Non-Employee Director Plan
and the Stock Incentive Plan expire in 2014.

The Company previously had a 1996 Stock Option Plan, which expired in 2001, and a Non-Employee
Director Stock Option Plan, which expired in 2003 (collectively, the  Expired Plans ). An
aggregate of 713,620 shares are reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding options
granted under these Expired Plans.

The 2000 Employee Plan provides for option grants at exercise prices not less than the fair
market value on the date of grant in the case of qualified incentive stock options, and not
less than par value in the case of non-qualified options. Under the terms of the 2000
Employee Plan, the Company may issue awards of restricted stock and restricted stock units
upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate.

The Non-Employee Director Plan provides for the annual grant of incentive awards which may
consist of stock options, restricted stock grants or restricted stock units. The Non-Employee
Director Plan is administered by the Board of Directors or, if the Board so determines, by a
committee of the Board.

The Stock Incentive Plan provides for the grant of incentive awards which may consist of stock
options, restricted stock grants, restricted stock units, stock bonuses, stock appreciation rights
or performance units. The Stock Incentive Plan is administered by the Board of Directors or, if
the Board so determines, by a committee of the Board.

51

Table of Contents   

Transactions involving the Stock Compensation Plans and the Expired Plans are summarized as
follows:

The following table summarizes information about the Company s equity awards outstanding and
exercisable as of December 31, 2005:

Warrants 

On March 29, 2000 and June 20, 2000, the Company granted Crown EMAK Partners, LLC ( Crown )
15,000 warrants to purchase additional shares of preferred stock. On March 19, 2004, these
warrants were exchanged for warrants to purchase Common Stock. (See  Preferred Stock  below).

Preferred Stock 

On March 29, 2000, Crown EMAK Partners, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ( Crown ),
invested $11,900 in the Company in exchange for Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase additional
Preferred Stock. Under the terms of the investment, Crown acquired 11,900 shares of Series A
mandatorily redeemable senior cumulative participating convertible preferred stock, par value $.001
per share, (the  Series A Stock ) with a conversion price of $14.75 per common share. In
connection with such purchase, the Company granted to Crown five year warrants (collectively, the
 Warrants ) to purchase 5,712 shares of Series B senior cumulative participating convertible
preferred stock, par value $.001 per share, (the  Series B Stock ) at an exercise price of $1,000
per share, and 1,428 shares of Series C senior cumulative participating convertible preferred
stock, par value $.001 per share, (the  Series C Stock ) at an exercise price of $1,000 per share.
The Warrants were immediately exercisable. The conversion prices of the Series B Stock and the
Series C Stock were $16.00 and $18.00 per common share, respectively. On June 20, 2000, Crown paid
an additional $13,100 in exchange for an additional 13,100 shares of Series A Stock with a
conversion price of $14.75 per common share. In connection with such purchase, the Company granted
to Crown additional Warrants to purchase another 6,288 shares of Series B Stock and another 1,572
shares of Series C Stock. Each share of Series A Stock is convertible into 67.7966 shares of Common
Stock, representing 1,694,915 shares of Common Stock in aggregate. Each share of Series B Stock
and Series C Stock was convertible into 62.5 and 55.5556 shares of Common Stock, respectively,
representing 916,666 shares of Common Stock in aggregate. Also in connection with such purchase,
the Company agreed to pay Crown a commitment fee in the aggregate amount of $1,250, paid in equal
quarterly installments of $62.5 commencing on June 30, 2000 and ending on March 31, 2005. The
Company paid $62.5 in fees for the year ended December 31, 2005.

On March 19, 2004, the Company entered into a Warrant Exchange Agreement with Crown whereby Crown
received new warrants to purchase an aggregate of 916,666 shares of Common Stock ( New Warrants )
in exchange for cancellation of the existing Warrants to purchase shares of Series B Stock and
Series C Stock (which, upon issuance, would also have been convertible into 916,666 shares of
Common Stock). The New Warrants consist of warrants to purchase 750,000 shares and 166,666 shares
of Common Stock at exercise prices of $16.00 and $18.00 per common share, respectively. Of each
tranche, 47.6% expire on March 29, 2010 and 52.4% expire on
June 20, 2010. As a result of the exchange transaction, Crown received an extension of time in
which to exercise its right to purchase

52

Table of Contents   

additional equity in the Company, and the Company obtained
an elimination of the preferred rights and preferences as well as the preferred dividend associated
with the Series B Stock and Series C Stock. The exchange was recorded as a reduction to preferred
stock of $531 and an increase to additional paid-in-capital of $487, net of transaction costs of
$44. The exchange was approved by an independent committee of the Board, which relied upon a
fairness opinion provided by an outside advisory firm.

On December 30, 2004, the Company entered into an Exchange Agreement with Crown whereby Crown
received 25,000 shares of Series AA mandatorily redeemable senior cumulative preferred stock, par
value $0.001 per share, (the  Series AA Stock ) with a conversion price of $14.75 per common share,
in exchange for 25,000 shares of Series A Stock. The Series AA Stock has substantially the same
rights and preferences as the Series A Stock, but does not participate in cash dividends paid on
Common Stock. The exchange was effected in response to the impact of EITF 03-6 on reported
earnings. Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the
Company s affairs, Crown, as holder of the Series AA Stock, will be entitled to payment out of
assets of the Company available for distribution of an amount equal to the greater of (a) the
liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (the  Liquidation Preference ) plus all accrued and
unpaid dividends or (b) the aggregate amount of payment that the outstanding preferred stock holder
would have received assuming conversion to Common Stock immediately prior to the date of
liquidation of capital stock, before any payment is made to other stockholders.

The Series AA Stock is subject to mandatory redemption at the option of the holder at 101% of the
aggregate Liquidation Preference plus accrued and unpaid dividends if a change in control occurs.

Crown has voting rights equivalent to the number of shares of Common Stock into which their Series
AA Stock is convertible on the relevant record date. Crown is also entitled to receive a quarterly
dividend equal to 6% of the Liquidation Preference per share outstanding, payable in cash. Total
dividends for the year ended December 31, 2005 amounted to $1,500, of which $375 was paid in
January 2006 and recorded in accounts payable in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of
December 31, 2005.

Crown currently holds 100% of the outstanding shares of Series AA Stock and has designated one
individual to the Board of Directors of the Company.

The Series AA Stock is recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at its Liquidation
Preference net of issuance costs. The issuance costs total approximately $1,951.

Stock Repurchase 

On July 24, 2001, the Company s Board of Directors authorized up to $10,000 for the repurchase
of the Company s Common Stock over a twelve month period. In the period from August 2, 2001
through July 11, 2002, the Company spent $5,605 to purchase 454,715 shares at an average price
of $12.33 per share including commissions. On July 12, 2002, the Company s Board of Directors
authorized up to an additional $10,000 for the repurchase of the
Company s Common Stock. The
Company spent $3,505 to repurchase 267,650 shares at an average price of $13.10 per share
including commissions under this authorization through December 31, 2004. The Company made no
additional purchases during the year ended December 31, 2005. On
March 27, 2006, the Company s Board of Directors adopted a
resolution terminating the repurchase program, as the Company is not
planning on making any further stock repurchases.

53

Table of Contents   

9. INCOME TAXES 

In accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes,  deferred income taxes reflect
the impact of temporary differences between values recorded for assets and liabilities for
financial reporting purposes and the values utilized for measurement in accordance with
current tax laws.

Consolidated pre-tax income (loss) consists of the following:

The provision (benefit) for income taxes consist of:

Income taxes recorded by the Company differ from the amounts computed by applying the
statutory United States Federal income tax rate to income before income taxes. The following
schedule reconciles income tax expense at the statutory rate and the actual income tax expense
as reflected in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

Other reflects the effects of permanent differences such as tax free municipal interest income
earned in 2003, 2004 and 2005, and the impact of foreign earnings/losses which are taxed at
different rates. In 2005, the company recorded a tax provision despite recording pre-tax losses as
a result of establishing a valuation allowance against previously recorded deferred tax assets (see
below).

54

Table of Contents   

The tax effects of the significant temporary differences giving rise to the Company s deferred tax
assets (liabilities) for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005 are as follows:

The Company assesses the realizability of its deferred tax assets and the need for a valuation
allowance based on the requirements of SFAS No. 109. SFAS No. 109 requires the Company to analyze
all positive and negative evidence to determine if, based on the weight of available evidence, we
are more likely than not to realize the benefit of our net deferred tax assets. The recognition of
a valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets and the related tax provision is based upon
management s conclusions regarding, among other considerations, estimates of future earnings based
on information currently available. Because of the operating losses the Company has incurred over
the past two years and based on current projections of 2006 taxable income, the Company established
a non-cash valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets. The Company does not expect to
record tax expense or benefits on U.S.-based operating results until it is consistently profitable
on a quarterly basis. At that time, the valuation allowance will be reassessed and could be
eliminated, resulting in the recognition of the deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance
provided against deferred tax assets is $14,613 at December 31,
2005; $8,658 of this amount
represents deferred tax assets established in prior years with the balance reflecting deferred tax
assets generated as the result of 2005 taxable losses. We recorded a tax provision of $8,153 in
2005 as the result of establishing a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets during the
fourth quarter of 2005.

Federal net operating loss ( NOL ) carryforwards totaled approximately $2,606 as of December 31,
2005. The federal net operating losses related to 2004 were carried back and utilized in prior
years. A portion of the 2005 loss will be carried back and utilized in prior years. As of
December 31, 2005, for the reason s discussed above, management established a full valuation
allowance against the remaining balance of federal NOL carryforwards.

State net operating loss carryforwards totaled approximately $6,532 and $13,102 as of December 31,
2004 and 2005, respectively. Their use is limited to future taxable earnings of the Company. As
the states do not currently provide for a carryback provision, the state net operating losses will
have a 10-year carryforward period. Management considered all available evidence and determined
that a valuation allowance of $223 was required as of December 31, 2004 for those NOL carryforwards
that are not expected to provide future tax benefits. As of December 31, 2005, for the reason s
discussed above, management established a full valuation allowance against the remaining balance of
state NOL carryforwards.

A deferred U.S. tax liability has not been provided on the unremitted earnings of Logistix (U.K.)
because it is the intent of the Company to permanently reinvest these earnings in the United
Kingdom. Undistributed pre-tax earnings of Logistix, which have been or are intended to be
permanently invested in accordance with APB No. 23,  Accounting for Income Taxes   Special Areas, 
aggregated $5,705 and $4,330 at December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively. The determination of the
tax liability upon repatriation is not practicable.

On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act (the  Jobs Act ) was signed into law. Among its
various provisions, the Jobs Act creates a temporary incentive for
U.S. corporations to repatriate
accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain
qualifying dividends. On December 21, 2004, the FASB issued FSP 109-2. FSP 109-2 allows companies
additional time beyond the financial reporting period in which the Jobs Act was enacted to evaluate
the effect of the Jobs Act on a company s plan for reinvestment or repatriation of unremitted
foreign earnings for the purposes of applying SFAS No. 109. The Company repatriated $2,650 in
foreign earnings during 2005 from a newly formed controlled foreign corporation ( CFC ) in Hong
Kong. The repatriation related to the 2005 earnings of the CFC and had no impact on the Company s
2005 tax provision as a result of the net losses and the establishment of the deferred tax asset
valuation allowance. Management s domestic reinvestment plan for the reinvestment and repatriation
of foreign earnings under the Jobs Act was completed and approved by Mr. Holbrook, the Company s
Chief Executive Officer, on December 14, 2005. The Company s Board of Directors approved this
domestic reinvestment plan on December 15, 2005. The Company decided not to repatriate any
earnings of Logistix (U.K.).

55

Table of Contents   

10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

Operating Leases 

The Company has operating leases for its properties and equipment, which expire at various
dates through 2014.

Future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases are as follows:

Aggregate rental expenses for operating leases were $3,879, $3,873 and $3,922 for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively.

Guaranteed Royalties 

For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004, and 2005, the Company incurred $4,278, $3,996 and
$4,168, respectively, in royalty expense. In addition, the Company decided to wind down its
consumer products business. The result of the decision was a charge in 2004 for minimum royalty
guarantee shortfalls of $7,722. In 2005, we reached a settlement with one of our licensors
affecting several licenses. As a result of this settlement and Scooby-Doo  revenues that exceeded
our initial estimates, $2,837 of the 2004 charge for minimum royalty guarantee shortfalls was
reversed in 2005. License agreements for certain copyrights and trademarks require minimum
guaranteed royalty payments over the respective terms of the licenses.

As of December 31, 2005, the Company has committed to pay total minimum guaranteed royalties
as follows:

Employment Agreement 

The Company has employment agreements with key executives. Guaranteed compensation under
these agreements are as follows:

Legal Proceedings 

The Company is involved in various legal proceedings generally incidental to its business.
While the result of any litigation contains an element of uncertainty, management presently
believes that the outcome of any other known, pending or threatened legal proceeding or claim,
individually or combined, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

Dispute Resolution Charge 

In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $237 related to a
dispute settlement liability incurred by assisting the former owner of SCI Promotion to settle
a claim for a product sold prior to its acquisition in September 2003. The Company chose to
facilitate settlement of the claim in order to secure a continued business relationship with
SCI Promotion s longtime client. The Company retained the right to offset the amount paid
toward the settlement against future earnout payments in connection with the SCI Promotion
acquisition. (See Note 4.)

56

Table of Contents   

11. INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION AND MAJOR CUSTOMERS 

The Company s revenues are highly dependent on obtaining major contracts from a limited number
of customers. Approximately 58%, 51% and 52% of the Company s consolidated revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, were from one customer in the
Marketing Services segment.

The Company has identified two reportable segments through which it conducts its continuing
operations: Marketing Services and Consumer Products. The factors for determining the
reportable segments were based on the distinct nature of their operations. They are managed
as separate business units because each requires and is responsible for executing a unique
business strategy. The Marketing Services segment designs and produces promotional products
used as free premiums or sold in conjunction with the purchase of other items at a retailer or
quick service restaurant and provides various services such as strategic planning and
research, entertainment marketing, promotion, event marketing, collaborative marketing, retail
design and environmental branding. Marketing Services programs are used for marketing
purposes by both the companies sponsoring the promotions and the licensors of the
entertainment properties on which the promotional programs are often based. The Marketing
Services segment is managed as an integrated business. The Marketing Services segment
provides a global offering of marketing services that draws upon the offerings of each of its
agencies. The Consumer Products segment designs and contracts for the manufacture of toys and
other consumer products for sale to major mass market and specialty retailers, who in turn
sell the products to consumers.

Earnings of industry segments and geographic areas exclude interest income, interest expense,
depreciation expense, and other unallocated
corporate expenses. Identified assets are those assets used in the operations of the segments and include
inventory, receivables, goodwill and other intangibles. Corporate assets consist of cash,
certain corporate receivables, fixed assets and certain trademarks.

The
primary measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by the chief
operating decision maker is segment income (loss) before provision
(benefit) for income taxes.

Industry Segments 

57

Table of Contents   

Information about the Company s operations by geographical area is as follows:

12. Related Party Transactions 

On July 15, 2003, the Company entered into an agreement with U.S. Capital Investors, Inc. ( USCI ),
an entity controlled by Jeffrey S. Deutschman, pursuant to which USCI served as an advisor to the
Company with respect to potential mergers and acquisitions through December 31, 2003 (the  2003
Agreement ). On August 23, 2004, the Company entered into another advisory agreement with USCI for
services during calendar 2004 (the  2004 Agreement ). Mr. Deutschman currently serves on the Board
of Directors of the Company as the representative of the holder of the Company s Series AA Stock.
The Company s agreements with USCI provided for the payment of a discretionary success fee for
completed acquisition transactions in an amount determined by an independent committee of the
Board. The 2003 Agreement set forth guidelines for fees payable upon successful completion of an
acquisition transaction of $200 for up to $10,000 of consideration, 1.5% of consideration from
$10,000 to $25,000 and 1% of consideration over $25,000; provided, however, that the success fee
for the first transaction under the agreement had an initial fee guideline of $275 for up to
$10,000 of consideration. Notwithstanding the guidelines, the independent committee had absolute
discretion in determining the amount, if any, of the success fee for any transaction. The 2004
Agreement did not include success fee guidelines. The USCI agreements provided for the payment of
a refundable advance against success fees in the aggregate amount of $275 under the 2003 Agreement
and $322 under the 2004 Agreement. The Company believes that these agreements enhanced its ability
to analyze and close merger and acquisition transactions in a more cost effective manner than with
traditional outside advisory firms. In connection with the acquisition of SCI Promotion, USCI
earned a success fee of $275. This success fee is recorded as a transaction cost of the SCI
Promotion acquisition. In connection with the February 2004 acquisition of Johnson Grossfield,
USCI earned a success fee of $125. This success fee is recorded as a transaction cost of the
Johnson Grossfield acquisition. In connection with the acquisition of Megaprint Group in November
2004, USCI earned a success fee of $322. This success fee is recorded as a transaction cost of the
Megaprint Group acquisition. The Company did not extended its arrangement with USCI beyond 2004.

58

Table of Contents   

13. SUMMARIZED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) 

(1.)
Changes primarily attributable to the impairment charges in the
fourth quarter. (See Note 3).

14. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 

On March 15, 2006, the Company s Board of Directors announced that it approved the adoption of a
stockholder rights plan (the  Rights Plan ) under which all stockholders of record as of March 26,
2006 would receive rights to purchase shares of a new series of preferred stock. The Rights Plan
will expire unless stockholders approve its continuation at the Company s 2008 annual meeting.

The Rights Plan is designed to enable all of the Company s stockholders to realize the full value
of their investment and to provide for fair and equal treatment for all stockholders in the event
that an unsolicited attempt is made to acquire the Company, and is intended as a means to guard
against abusive takeover tactics. The Rights Plan requires the Board to call a special meeting of
stockholders to consider the redemption of the Rights Plan if a third party commences an all-cash
tender offer which meets certain criteria specified in the Rights Plan.

The rights will be distributed as a non-taxable dividend. The rights will be exercisable only if a
person or group acquires 10% or more of the Company s Common Stock or announces a tender offer for
10% or more of the Common Stock. If a person or group acquires 10% or
more of EMAK s Common Stock,
all rights holders except the buyer will be entitled to acquire the
Company s Common Stock at a
discount. The intended effect will be to prevent acquisitions of more than 10% of the Company s
Common Stock without first negotiating with the Board. Existing stockholders of the Company who
currently own more than 10% of the Common Stock are exempted from the terms of the Rights Plan
unless and until any of them acquires additional shares of the Common
Stock after March 15, 2006.

The rights
will trade with the Company s Common Stock, unless and until they are separated upon the
occurrence of certain future events. The Board of Directors may terminate the Rights Plan or
redeem the rights at any time prior to the time the rights are triggered. Additional details
regarding the Rights Plan will be outlined in a summary to be mailed to all stockholders following
the record date.

On
March 27, 2006, the Company s Board of Directors adopted a
resolution terminating its stock repurchase program, as the Company is not planning on making any further stock repurchases.

59

Table of Contents   

On March 29, 2006, the Company signed a new credit facility (the  New Facility ) with Bank of
America. The maturity date of the New Facility is March 29, 2009. The New Facility is secured by
substantially all of the Company s assets and provides for a line of credit of up to $25,000 with
borrowing availability determined by a formula based on qualified assets. Interest on outstanding
borrowings will be based on either a fixed rate equivalent to LIBOR plus an applicable spread of
between 2.50 and 3.00 percent or a variable rate equivalent to the bank s reference rate plus an
applicable spread of between 0.75 and 1.25 percent. The Company is also required to pay an unused
line fee of between 0.375 and 0.50 percent per annum and certain letter of credit fees. The
applicable spread is based on the levels of borrowings relative to qualified assets. The New
Facility also requires the Company to comply with certain restrictions and covenants as amended
from time to time. The Facility may be used for working capital and other corporate financing
purposes. The New Facility does not permit the payment of dividends on Series AA Preferred Stock in 2006.
The restriction on dividends may be removed in 2007 subject to 2006 audited results and compliance
with covenants.

ITEM 9.  
       
      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

Inapplicable.

ITEM 9A.  
       
      CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e)
promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) , that are designed
to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it
files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms and
that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company s management, including
its Chief Executive Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company carried out an evaluation, under the
supervision and with the participation of the Company s management, including the Company s
Chief Executive Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, of the effectiveness of the design
and operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2005.
Based on the evaluation of these disclosure controls and procedures, the Chief Executive
Officer and Principal Accounting Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and
procedures were effective.

There were no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting, as defined
in Rule 13a-15(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act, during the quarter ended December 31,
2005, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company s internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.  
       
      OTHER INFORMATION  

Inapplicable

PART III 

ITEM 10.  
       
      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

Information regarding our Executive Officers required by Item 10 of Part III is set forth in Item 1
of Part I  Business Executive Officers.  Information required by Item 10 of Part III regarding our
Directors appears under the caption  ELECTION OF DIRECTORS  in our Proxy Statement relating to our
2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and is incorporated herein by reference. Information relating
to our Policy on Business Conduct and to our compliance with Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act is also
set forth in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.  
       
      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

Information relating to this item appears under the captions  ELECTION OF DIRECTORS ,
 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND RELATED MATTERS  and  REPORT OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE ON
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  
       
      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

Information relating to this item appears under the caption  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  in our Proxy Statement
relating to our 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by
reference.

60

Table of Contents   

ITEM 13.  
       
      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  

Information relating to this item appears under the caption  ELECTION OF DIRECTORS  in our
Proxy Statement relating to our 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 14.  
       
      PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  

Information relating to this item appears under the caption  RATIFICATION OF SELECTION OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2006
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV 

ITEM 15.  
       
      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

(a)  List of documents filed as part of this Report.

1. Financial Statements:

Note: 
       
     All other supplementary schedules are omitted since
they are not applicable or the required information can be obtained from
the consolidated financial statements. 

3. Exhibits:

3.1 
       
     Certificate of Incorporation. (1) 

3.2 
       
     Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation dated July 16, 2004. (2) 

3.3 
       
     Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation dated September 15, 2004. (2) 

3.4 
       
     Amended and Restated Bylaws. (3) 

3.5 
       
     Certificate of Designation of Series AA Senior Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company, dated December 30, 2004. (4) 

3.6 
       
     Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Designation of
Series AA Senior Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company dated
September 2, 2005. (5) 

3.7 
       
     Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock dated March 15, 2006. (6) 

3.8 
       
     Rights Agreement dated as of March 15, 2006 between the
Company and Continental Stock Transfer   Trust Company. (6) 

10.1 
       
     Securities Purchase Agreement by and between Crown Acquisition
Partners, LLC and Equity Marketing, Inc., dated March 29, 2000. (7) 

61

Table of Contents   

(1) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, and incorporated
herein by reference. 

(2) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and incorporated
herein by reference. 

(3) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated March 17, 2005, and incorporated herein by
reference. 

62

Table of Contents   

(4) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated January 5, 2005, and incorporated herein by
reference. 

(5) 
       
     Previously filed with the Registrant s Proxy Statement for the
2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders dated April 28, 2005 and incorporated
herein by reference. 

(6) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated March 15, 2006, and incorporated herein by
reference. 

(7) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2000, and incorporated
herein by reference. 

(8) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated April 11, 2000, and incorporated herein by
reference. 

(9) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and incorporated
herein by reference. 

(10) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1998, and incorporated
herein by reference. 

(11) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, and incorporated
herein by reference. 

(12) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003, and incorporated
herein by reference. 

(13) 
       
     Previously filed with the Registrant s Proxy Statement for the
2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders dated April 26, 2004 and incorporated
herein by reference. 

(14) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, and
incorporated herein by reference. 

(15) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated November 15, 2005, and incorporated herein by
reference. 

(16) 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated December 21, 2005, and incorporated herein by
reference. 

(*) 
       
     Filed herewith 

(b) 
       
     Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K 

See Item 3. above.

(c) 
       
     Financial Statement Schedule 

See Item 2. above.

63

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on the 31 st  day of March, 2006.

EMAK WORLDWIDE, INC. 

By:

/s/ James L. Holbrook, Jr. 

James L. Holbrook, Jr. 

Chief Executive Officer 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

We, the undersigned directors and officers of EMAK Worldwide, Inc. do hereby severally
constitute and appoint James L. Holbrook, Jr., Teresa L. Tormey and Roy Dar and each of them,
our true and lawful attorneys and agents, to do any and all acts and things in our name and
behalf in our capacities as directors and officers and to execute any and all instruments for
us and in our names in the capacities indicated below, which said attorneys and agents, or any
of them, may deem necessary or advisable to enable said corporation to comply with the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any rules, regulations and requirements of
the Securities and Exchange Commission, in connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
including specifically, but without limitation, power and authority to sign for us or any of
us, in our names in the capacities indicated below, any and all amendments hereto; and we do
each hereby ratify and confirm all said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, shall do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

64

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on 
Financial Statement Schedule 

To the Board of Directors

of EMAK Worldwide, Inc.:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to
in our report dated March 30, 2006
appearing in the 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders of EMAK Worldwide, Inc. also included an audit
of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion,
this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Los Angeles, CA

March 30, 2006

65

Table of Contents   

EMAK WORLDWIDE, INC. 

SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

(in thousands) 

(A) 
       
     Represents product returns, credits applied and accounts receivable written off, net
of recoveries. 

66

<EX-10.5>
 2
 v19133exv10w5.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.5

exv10w5 

Exhibit 10.5 

EXECUTED 
ORIGINAL 

SECOND AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE  

This SECOND AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE (this  Second Amendment ) is made and entered into as
of the 8 th  day of November, 2002, by and between LEXINGTON SAN VICENTE ASSOCIATES, LLC,
a California limited liability company ( Landlord ), and EQUITY MARKETING, INC. a Delaware
corporation ( Tenant ).

R E C I T A L S :

A. Miracle Mile, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company, predecessor-in-interest to Landlord, and Tenant entered into that certain Office Lease, dated July 17, 1998
(the
 Office Lease ), as amended by that certain First Amendment to Office Lease dated February 9,
1999 (the  First Amendment ) (the Office Lease and the First Amendment are hereafter
collectively referred to herein as the  Lease ), whereby Landlord leased to Tenant and Tenant
leased from Landlord those certain premises consisting of approximately 57,128 rentable
square
feet (the  Premises ) located on the first (1 st ), third (3 rd ), fourth
(4 th ) and fifth (5 th ) floors of that
certain office building located at 6330 San Vicente Boulevard, Los Angeles, California
( Building ).

B. Landlord and Tenant desire to extend the term of the Lease and make
modifications to the Lease.

A G R E E M E N T :

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and the mutual covenants contained
herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is
hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows.

1.    Capitalized Terms .  All capitalized terms when used herein shall have the same
meaning as is given such terms in the Lease unless expressly superseded by the terms of this
Second Amendment.

2.    Extension of Term .  Landlord and Tenant acknowledge that the Lease Term is
scheduled to expire on December 31, 2005, pursuant to the terms of the Lease. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in the Lease, the Lease Term is hereby extended to and
shall
expire on December 31, 2009 (the  New Expiration Date ), unless otherwise extended or sooner
terminated as provided in the Lease, as hereby amended. Notwithstanding anything contained in
the Lease to the contrary, Landlord and Tenant hereby acknowledge and agree that (i) for all
purposes under the Lease, the initial Lease Term under the Lease shall be deemed to expire on
December 31, 2002, (ii) the period of time commencing on January 1, 2003 (the  New Term
Commencement Date ) and terminating on the New Expiration Date shall be referred to herein
as the  New Term,  and (iii) notwithstanding anything in Section 2.2 of the Office Lease to
the
contrary, Tenant shall have one (1) remaining Option Term, which shall be applicable following
the expiration of the New Term, subject to and in accordance with the terms of Section 2.2 of
the
Office Lease.

3.    Rent.  

3.1
 Base Rent .  Commencing on the New Term Commencement Date and continuing throughout
the New Term, Tenant shall pay to Landlord monthly installments of Base Rent for the Premises as
follows:

3.2
 Tenant s Share of Direct Expenses .  Throughout the New Term, Tenant shall
continue to pay Tenant s Share of Direct Expenses in accordance with the terms of the Lease;
provided, however, that effective as of the New Term Commencement Date, the Base Year shall be the
calendar year 2003.

4.
 Improvements in the Premises .  Landlord and Tenant hereby acknowledge and agree
that Tenant is currently in occupancy of the Premises and, except as set forth in this Section 4,
(i) Tenant shall continue to accept the Premises in its currently existing,  as-is  condition, and
(ii) Landlord shall not be obligated to provide or pay for any improvement work or services
related to the improvement of the Premises. Further, Tenant acknowledges that neither Landlord nor
any agent of Landlord has made any representation or warranty regarding the condition of the
Premises or with respect to the suitability of any of the same for the conduct of Tenant s
business.

4.1
 Improvement Allowance .  Tenant shall be entitled to a one-time
allowance for the design, purchase and installation of improvements (the  Improvements )
which
are affixed to certain portions of the Premises located on the first (1 st ) and
fifth (5 th ) floors of the
Building, as set forth on Exhibit A, attached hereto (the  Improvement Space ), in an amount
equal to Two Hundred Thirty-Four Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($234,000.00) (the
 Improvement Allowance ). Tenant s construction and installation of the Improvements shall be
made in accordance with the terms of Article 8 of the Office Lease. Notwithstanding anything
contained in Section 4.3, below, to the contrary, in no event shall Landlord be obligated to
disburse any portion of the Improvement Allowance before
August 1, 2003; provided, however,
that Tenant may incur costs related to the construction of the Improvements prior to August 1,
2003. In the event that the Improvement Allowance is not fully utilized by Tenant by August 1,
2005, then such unused amounts shall revert to Landlord and Tenant shall have no further
rights
with respect thereto.

4.2
 HVAC Work Allowance .  In addition to the Improvement Allowance,
Tenant shall be entitled to a one-time allowance for the cost of repairs of and maintenance to
the
Premises  HVAC system (the  HVAC Work ), in an amount equal to Fifty Thousand and No/100
Dollars ($50,000.00) (the  HVAC Work Allowance ). The HVAC Work shall be completed by

Tenant in accordance with the terms of the Office Lease (including without limitation, Articles 7
and 8 thereof). In the event that the HVAC Work Allowance is not fully utilized by Tenant on or
before December 31, 2003, then such unused amounts shall revert to Landlord and Tenant shall have
no further rights with respect thereto. Notwithstanding Tenant s right, as set forth herein, to the
HVAC Allowance, Landlord and Tenant hereby acknowledge and agree that Tenant shall be responsible,
at Tenant s sole cost and expense, for the repair of, and maintenance to, the Premises  HVAC system
in accordance with the terms of Article 7 of the Lease.

4.3
 Disbursement of Improvement Allowance and HVAC Work
Allowance .  Subject to the
terms of Sections 4.1 and 4.2, above, following the completion of the Improvements or the HVAC
Work, as the case may be, Landlord shall, within thirty (30) days following receipt of invoices
marked as paid, unconditional mechanics  lien releases and such other information as Landlord may
reasonably request with respect to the Improvements and/or the HVAC Work, as the case may be,
reimburse Tenant for the cost of the Improvements and/or the HVAC Work, as the case may be;
provided, however, that in no event shall Landlord s disbursements for the Improvements exceed the
Improvement Allowance nor shall Landlord s disbursements for the HVAC Work exceed the HVAC Work
Allowance.

5.    Parking Charges.  

5.1
 Unreserved Passes .  Effective as of the New Term Commencement Date
and continuing throughout the New Term, notwithstanding anything in the Lease to the contrary,
the Parking Charge payable by Tenant with respect to each unreserved pass leased by Tenant
shall be as follows: (i) during the first (1 st ) year of the New Term, the Parking
Charge payable
by Tenant shall equal Ninety and No/100 Dollars ($90.00) per month for each pass rented by
Tenant; and (ii) on each anniversary of the New Term Commencement Date, the monthly
Parking Charge payable by Tenant for each unreserved pass rented by Tenant shall be increased
to the product of (a) the Parking Charge applicable to unreserved passes under the Lease, as
amended hereby, immediately prior to such anniversary of the New Term Commencement Date,
and (b) 1.03. Following the expiration of the New Term, if Tenant leases the Premises during
the remaining Option Term, the Parking Charge payable by Tenant for Tenant s unreserved
parking passes shall be the prevailing rate then charged by Landlord for such passes.

5.2
 Reserved Passes .  Effective as of the New Term Commencement Date,
notwithstanding anything in the Lease to the contrary, the Parking Charge payable by Tenant
for
each reserved parking pass rented by Tenant shall be as follows: (i) during the first
(1 st ) year of
the New Term, the Parking Charge payable by Tenant shall equal One Hundred Ten and No/100
Dollars ($110.00) per month for each pass rented by Tenant; and (ii) on each anniversary of
the
New Term Commencement Date, the monthly Parking Charge payable by Tenant for each
reserved pass rented by Tenant shall be increased to the product of (a) the Parking Charge
applicable to reserved passes under the Lease, as amended hereby, immediately prior to such
anniversary of the New Term Commencement Date, and (b) 1.03. Following the expiration of
the New Term, if Tenant leases the Premises during the remaining Option Term, the Parking
Charge payable by Tenant for Tenant s reserved parking passes shall be the prevailing rate
then
charged by Landlord for such passes.

6.  Storage
Space .  In addition to Tenant s rights to lease the Storage Premises in
accordance with the terms of Section 29.30 of the Office Lease, Tenant shall be entitled, at
any
time following the commencement of construction within the Improvement Space, but subject to
availability, to lease up to an additional 3,000 square feet of storage space (which may, at
Landlord s option, be provided in up to two (2) increments) (the  Additional Storage
Premises ).
In no event shall Landlord be required to perform any demolition or tenant improvement work or
convert any space (whether then comprised of office space, retail space, parking or other non-
storage space) to storage space for purposes of providing the same to Tenant. In the event
that
Landlord shall rent Additional Storage Premises to Tenant in accordance with the terms hereof,
Tenant shall pay to Landlord, monthly storage rent in an amount equal to $0.75 per square foot
per month for the first year of such lease, with three percent (3%) annual increases
thereafter.
All storage rent shall be due on a monthly basis concurrently with Tenant s payment of the
Base
Rent due with respect to the Premises, and shall constitute Additional Rent under the Lease,
as
amended hereby. Tenant shall give prompt notice to Landlord in case of fire or accidents in or
about the Additional Storage Premises or of defects therein or in the fixtures or equipment
related thereto. Tenant acknowledges and agrees that Landlord shall have no obligation to
provide any security for the Additional Storage Premises. Notwithstanding the foregoing,

Landlord hereby acknowledges and agrees that the access control services provided by Landlord
pursuant to the terms of Section 6.1.7 of the Lease shall apply with respect to Tenant s lease of
the Additional Storage Premises to the extent the Additional Storage Premises are located in the
Building and not the  6310 Building,  as that term is defined below. The Additional Storage
Premises, if leased by Tenant, shall be leased by Tenant in its then existing,  as-is  condition.
Tenant shall be fully responsible for repairing any damage to the Additional Storage Premises to
the extent such damage results from or relates to Tenant s use thereof. Tenant s insurance
obligations under the Lease shall also pertain to Tenant s use of the Storage Premises. The exact
location of the Additional Storage Premises shall be determined by Landlord in its sole and
absolute discretion and may be located in the Building and/or in the building located at 6310 San
Vicente Boulevard (the  6310 Building ). Tenant hereby acknowledges and agrees, however, that (i)
the 6310 Building is currently owned by an affiliate of Landlord and that any rights to storage
space in the 6310 Building shall terminate to the extent that such affiliate of Landlord shall sell
the 6310 Building, and (ii) to the extent Tenant shall lease storage space pursuant to the terms
hereof in the 6310 Building, Tenant shall execute commercially reasonable documentation consistent
with the terms of this Section 6 which may be provided by Landlord or Landlord s affiliate in
connection with Tenant s lease of storage space at the 6310 Building. Tenant hereby acknowledges
that, to the extent Additional Storage Space is not available as set forth herein, Landlord shall
have no liability to Tenant in connection therewith and all of the terms of the Lease, as amended
hereby, shall remain in full force and effect.

7.  Deletions .  Landlord and Tenant hereby acknowledge and agree that Section 1.3
(Hold Space) (except for the definition of  Original Tenant  and  Permitted Assignee ), and
Section 1.4 (Expansion Space) (except for the definition of  Market Rent Review Period, 
 Comparable Buildings,   Comparable Deals,   Market Rent  and  Triggering Default ) of the
Office Lease are hereby deleted in then: entirety and are of no further, force and effect.

8.    Brokers.   Landlord and Tenant hereby warrant to each other that they have had
no dealings with any real estate broker or agent in connection with the negotiation of mis
Second
Amendment other man Winco Asset Management (the  Broker ) and that they know of no real
estate broker or agent other than the Broker who is entitled to a commission in connection
with
this Second Amendment. Landlord shall pay a brokerage commission to the Broker in
connection with this Second Amendment pursuant to the terms of a separate written agreement.
Each party agrees to indemnify and defend the other party against and hold the other party
harmless from any and all claims, demands, losses, liabilities, lawsuits, judgments, and costs
and
expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys  fees) with respect to any
leasing
commission or equivalent compensation alleged to be owing on account of the indemnifying
party s dealings with any real estate broker or agent other than the Broker. The provisions of
this
 Section 8  shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of the Lease, as amended
hereby.

9.    No Further Modification.   Except as specifically set forth in this Second
Amendment, all of the terms and provisions of the Lease shall remain unmodified and in full
force and effect. In the event of any conflict between the terms and conditions of the Lease
and
the terms and conditions of this Second Amendment, the terms and conditions of this Second
Amendment shall prevail.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have caused this Second Amendment to be executed on
the day and date first above written.

Landlord : 

LEXINGTON SAN VICENTE ASSOCIATES, 

LLC, a California limited liability company 

By:

Its Manager 

Lexington Commercial Holdings, Inc., 

a California Corporation 

/s/ Alisa J. Freundlich 

Alisa J. Freundlich 

Chief Operating Officer 

Tenant : 

EQUITY MARKETING, INC., a Delaware 

corporation 

By: 
       
     Larry Madden 

Its:

CFO 

By: 
       
     /s/ Larry Madden 

Its:

Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.6>
 3
 v19133exv10w6.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.6

exv10w6 

Exhibit 10.6 

Dated the                    day of                              2005, 

WIDE HARVEST INVESTMENT   LIMITED 

and

EMAK HONG KONG LIMITED

TENANCY
AGREEMENT   
of

Suite Nos. 1 ,2, 3 and 4 on the 18th Floor of Tower 6, 
China Hong Kong City, China Ferry Terminal, 
Canton Road, Kowloon.

BAKER   McKENZIE 
Solicitors   Notaries 
14th Floor 
Hutchison House 
Harcourt Road Central 
Hong Kong

THIS
AGREEMENT  is dated the                     day of                               2005

BETWEEN the parties described as the Landlord and the Tenant respectively in Part I of the First
Schedule

WHEREBY IT IS AGREED as follows :

SECTION I 
INTERPRETATION AND AGREEMENT 

In this Agreement the expressions set out in the Schedules hereto shall where the
context so admits have the meanings respectively ascribed to them therein.

1.2  
       
      Joint and several liability  

In this Agreement where the context so permits or requires words importing the
singular number include the plural number and vice versa and words importing a gender
include all other genders and where there are two or more persons included in the
expression  the Tenant  covenants expressed to be made by the Tenant shall be deemed to be
made by such persons jointly and severally.

The headings and covering pages are intended for guidance only and do not form part
of this Agreement nor shall any of the provisions of this Agreement be construed or
interpreted by reference thereto or in any way affected or limited thereby.

2  
       
         Premises Term and Rent  

The Landlord shall let and the Tenant shall take, in the state and condition as it
is,  ALL THAT  the premises more particularly described and set out in Part II of the First
Schedule ( Premises ) TOGETHER with the use in common with the Landlord and all others
having the like right of the entrances, staircases, landings, lavatories, corridors and
passages in the Building as defined in Part II of the First Schedule insofar as the same are
necessary for the proper use and enjoyment of the Premises  AND TOGETHER  with the use in
common with others having the like right of the lifts escalators and central
air-conditioning service serving the Premises whenever the same shall be operating for the
term set out in Part III of the First Schedule ( Term )  YIELDING AND PAYING  therefor
throughout the Term such rent, Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge (which are unless
the context otherwise requires collectively included in the term  Rent ) and other charges
as are from time to time payable in advance and in accordance with the provisions set out in
the Second Schedule.

SECTION II 
DEPOSIT 

1.1 
       
     The Tenant shall on the signing hereof deposit with the Landlord the sum or sums
specified in Part V of the First Schedule to secure the due observance and performance
by the Tenant of the covenants, agreements, stipulations, terms and conditions herein
contained and on the part of the Tenant to be observed and performed. 

1.2 
       
     The deposit shall be retained by the Landlord throughout the Term (SUBJECT to the
Landlord s right to forfeit the deposit under clause 1 of Section IX hereof) without
interest and the Tenant hereby specifically authorises the Landlord (but without
prejudice to any other right or remedy) to apply the deposit in payment of the amount of
any rent, rates, Government rent (if any), Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge
and other charges payable hereunder by the Tenant and any costs expenses loss or damage
sustained by the Landlord as the result of any non-observance or non-performance by the
Tenant of any of the covenants, agreements, stipulations, obligations or conditions. 

1.3 
       
     In the event of any deduction being made by the Landlord from the deposit the
Tenant shall, as a condition precedent to the continuation of the tenancy, forthwith on
demand by the Landlord make a further deposit (to be held by the Landlord in manner as
aforesaid) equal to the amount so deducted and failure by the Tenant so to do shall
entitle the Landlord to determine this Agreement and forthwith to re-enter upon the
Premises in which event the deposit shall be forfeited to the Landlord. 

2  
       
      Refund of deposit  

Subject as aforesaid the deposit shall be refunded to the Tenant by the Landlord without
interest within forty five (45) days after the expiration or sooner determination of this
Agreement and delivery of vacant possession to the Landlord or after settlement of the last
outstanding claim by the Landlord against the Tenant for any arrears of rent, rates,
Government rent (if any), Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge and other charges and
for any breach non-observance or non-performance of any of the covenants agreements
stipulations terms and conditions herein contained and on the part of the Tenant to be
observed or performed whichever is the later.

-2-

3  
       
      Increase in deposit  

If there shall for whatever reason be any increase in the rent and/or Management Fee and
Air-Conditioning Charge and/or rates and Government rent (if any) during the Term, the
Tenant shall upon such increase becoming applicable pay to the Landlord as a condition
precedent to the continuation of the tenancy by way of increase in the said deposit a sum
proportional to the said increase to restore the ratio of deposit to die rent and Management
Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge and rates and Government rent (if any) to that previously
subsisting.

4  
       
      Transfer of deposit  

In the event that the Premises and/or this Agreement shall be assigned by the Landlord to any
person(s), the Landlord shall be entitled as incidental to such assignment to transfer
directly the Deposit or the balance thereof to the assignee, after making any deduction in
manner aforesaid (whether with or without the consent of the Tenant) PROVIDED that the
assignee shall undertake with the Tenant to refund such deposit or balance thereof in
accordance with the provisions hereof, whereupon the Landlord shall be released from any and
all further obligations to the Tenant in respect of the said Deposit, and the Tenant shall
thereafter have no claim whatsoever against the Landlord in respect thereof. The Tenant shall
if required by the Landlord (but not at the cost of the Tenant) enter into, sign, and execute
such agreements, deeds or documents in such form and substance to the satisfaction of the
Landlord, to release the Landlord from its obligation in respect of the refund of the
deposit or balance thereof. In the event of there being a bank guarantee the Tenant will upon
request provide a substitute guarantee in favour of the assignee in exchange for that provided
to the Landlord.

SECTION III 
TENANT S OBLIGATIONS 

The Tenant hereby agrees with the Landlord as follows:-

1.  
       
      Rent and Management Fee, etc.  

1.1 
       
     To pay the rent as set out in Part I of the Second Schedule in advance in
respect of the Premises and clear of all deductions on the first day of each calendar
month, the first and last of such payments to be apportioned according to the number of
days in the month included in the Term. 

1.2 
       
     To pay and discharge at the same time and in the same manner as the rent is
payable the Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge and any other service and
maintenance charges payable by the owner or occupier of the Premises or (as the case
may be) the Landlord including (without limitation) 

- 3 -

such charges as may be demanded from time to time by the Building Manager or
Management Committee or similar Management Body for the time being of the
Building (if any) and/or those charges payable in respect of the Premises pursuant
to or by virtue of the Deed of Mutual Covenant and Management Agreement relating
to the Building, and subject to revision in accordance with
Clause 1.5 of Section III, the Management Fee and Air-Conditioning-Charge
payable at the Commencement of the Term is set out in Part II of the Second
Schedule. 

1.3 
       
     If the day on which the rent, the Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge or
additional outgoings or other payments fall due under this Agreement is a public
holiday, the relevant payment of rent, Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge
or additional outgoings or otherwise shall be due and payable on the preceding business
day. For the avoidance of doubt,  business day  means a day on which banks are
ordinarily open for business in Hong Kong. 

1.4 
       
     If payment is made by the Tenant by cheque, such cheque must be good for payment
and reach the office of the Landlord before 3:3 0 p.m. in the afternoon if such payment
is made on any weekday except Saturday, and before 11:30 a.m. if such payment is made on
a Saturday, failing which the payment shall be deemed to have been paid by the Tenant on
the following business day, and the Tenant shall be deemed to have defaulted in making
due payment 

1.5 
       
     If at any time and from time to time during the Term the operating cost relative
to the supply of the air-conditioning and/or the costs and expenses for the provision of
management services to the Building and/or the Premises shall have risen over the costs
prevailing at the commencement of the Term the Landlord shall be entitled to serve one
(1) month s notice in writing upon the Tenant to increase the charges or any of them by
appropriate amount(s) and thereafter such increased charges shall prevail. The
Landlord s assessments of the appropriate increase shall be conclusive and binding on
the Tenant. 

1.6 
       
     If the Tenant should require air-conditioning outside the normal
air-conditioning supply hours set out in the Fifth Schedule, subject to the Tenant s
giving to the Landlord not less than 24 hours prior notice in writing, additional
air-conditioning will normally be provided on condition mat the additional
air-conditioning shall be applied in units of one hour and at least two hours on each
occasion at such rate as may be charged by the Landlord from time to time. 

2  
       
      Rates and Government Rent (if any)  

- 4 -

2.1 
       
     To pay and discharge punctually during the Term all rates, Government rent
(if any), taxes, assessments, duties, charges, impositions and outgoings of an
annual or recurring nature whatsoever now or hereafter to be assessed imposed or
charged on the Premises or upon the owner or occupier in respect of the Premises or
any part thereof by the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
or other lawful authority (Property Tax alone excepted)
on the 1 st  day of the months of January, April, July and October. 

2.2 
       
     Without prejudice to the generality of clause 2.1, the Tenant shall pay to the
Landlord all rates and Government rent (if any) imposed on the Premises by the
Government and as and when demanded by the Landlord, who shall settle the same with the
Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

2.3 
       
     In the event of the Premises not yet having been assessed to rates and/or the
Government rent (if any), the Tenant shall pay to the Landlord a sum (which shall be
computed on the basis of the prevailing percentages of the rateable value of the
Premises for rates and/or the Government rent (if any) for the corresponding quarter)
as shall be required by the Landlord as a deposit by way of security for the due
payment of rates and/or Government rent (if any) subject to adjustment on actual rates
and/or the Government rent (if any) assessment being received by the Landlord from the
Government of Hong Kong Administrative Special Region. 

3  
       
      Water         electricity charges  

To pay and discharge punctually during the Term all charges (including all deposits)
in respect of water, electric light, power and telephones as may be shown by the separate
meter or meters installed upon the Premises or by accounts rendered to the Tenant.

To use the Premises only for the purposes set out in Part IV of the First Schedule hereto
and for no other purpose whatsoever.

5  
       
      Entry by Landlord  

5.1 
       
     To permit the Landlord and its agents with or without workmen and all persons
authorised by it and with or without appliances at all reasonable times upon prior
notice to enter upon the Premises and if necessary, to remain at the Premises: 

(a) 
       
     to take inventories of fixtures and fittings therein and to
carry out any maintenance works or repairs to the Landlord s installations
inside the Premises which are in the opinion of the Landlord necessary and
proper 

- 5 -

to be done;

(b) 
       
     to examine the state and condition thereof and of the fixtures and fittings
therein, including but not limited to the central air-conditioning unit; 

(c) 
       
     to execute any works of renewal cleaning alteration or repair
to any adjacent or neighbouring premises or to the Building without any claim
for damages or indemnity against the Landlord; and 

(d) 
       
     to do such work as may be deemed necessary to preserve the exterior walls
or any part of the structure of the Building from injury or damage from any
excavation or other building works as may be made or authorised in the vicinity
of the Building 

and the Tenant shall deposit with the Landlord a key or key(s) to the Premises to
enable the Landlord to enter into the Premises in the event of emergency, and
unless key(s) are so deposited with the Landlord, in the event of emergency the
Landlord or its agents may without notice enter upon the Premises forcibly, and
the Tenant shall at its own expense reinstate the entrance door to the Premises to
its original state and condition without any claim for damages or indemnity
against the Landlord.

5.2 
       
     To permit the Landlord and all persons authorised by it at all reasonable times
to show the Premises to prospective tenants during the last three months of the Term or
to prospective purchasers at any time during the Term. 

Upon receipt of notice from the Landlord to forthwith make good all defects and wants
of repair for which the Tenant is responsible hereunder and if the Tenant should not within
seven (7) days after the service of such notice proceed diligently with the making good of
all defects and the carrying out of such repair then to permit the Landlord to enter upon the
Premises and to make good the said defects and carry out such repair. The costs thereof shall
be paid by the Tenant and be a debt due from the Tenant to the Landlord and be forthwith
recoverable by action.

7  
       
      Close windows  

To keep all windows and doors of the Premises closed and to permit the Landlord or its
servants and agents and others from time to time during the Term to enter upon the Premises
for the purpose of closing any doors or windows.

- 6 -

8  
       
      Notify Landlord of damage  

To notify the Landlord or its agent of any accidents to or defects in the water pipes
electrical wires or fittings fixtures or other facilities provided by the Landlord within the
Premises whether or not the Tenant is liable hereunder for the repair of the same forthwith
upon the Tenant s becoming aware (whether actually or constructively) of the same arising.

9  
       
      Interior fitting out  

9.1 
       
     To fit out the interior of the Premises at the Tenant s expense in accordance
with the requirements and provisions set out in the Third Schedule. 

9.2 
       
     Fitting out works in the Premises to be carried out by the Tenant shall be
carried out in accordance with plans drawings and specifications as that have been
first submitted under clause 10 below and have been approved in writing by the
Landlord. Such works shall be carried out in a good and proper workmanlike fashion with
good quality materials and with all necessary Government licences permits authorities
permissions and consents. 

9.3 
       
     Upon completion of the fitting out work to the satisfaction of the Landlord,
the Tenant shall throughout the Term maintain the Premises in good repair and condition
to the satisfaction of the Landlord. The Tenant will not cause or permit to be made
any alteration variation or addition to the approved interior design or layout of the
Premises and may not commence any further fitting out works upon the Premises without
the prior written consent of the Landlord. Any fitting out of the Premises adjoining a
common area shall be of a style nature and standard as may be required by the Landlord
and the work shall be carried out at the cost of the Tenant. In carrying out any
approved work the Tenant shall obey and cause his servants agents contractors and
workmen to obey and comply with all instructions and directions prescribed by the
Landlord, the Landlord s agent, or the Building Manager of the Building. 

9.4 
       
     To employ at the Tenant s expense only such contractors as are nominated by the
Landlord from time to time for the purpose of designing and carrying out and installing
all the necessary building services and builders  work as hereinafter defined in the
Premises in manner as prescribed by the Landlord or its nominated contractors and in
particular to observe and comply with the conditions and requirements as stated in the
Tenant s Fitting-Out Guide. The expression  building services  means all mechanical and
electrical engineering work and arrangements relating to the Premises including but not
confined to electrical, plumbing, building automation and fire fighting installations.
The expression  builders  work  shall mean all renovation works not specified 

- 7 -

under  building services  including but not confined to light tracks, light
troughs and graphics panels.

9.5 
       
     To pay a vetting charge to the Building Manager for its checking of the
fitting out plans and inspection of the fitting-out works, and pay the sum demanded by
the Building Manager as a refundable deposit as security for any damage to the Building
caused as a result of the Tenant s works and the removal of any debris. 

10  
       
      Submission of information  

10.1 
       
     The Tenant shall furnish to the Landlord full details of all specifications,
prints, copies and drawings information or materials as and when required by the
Landlord and shall cause the same to be delivered to the Landlord s office. 

10.2 
       
     The Tenant shall provide the Landlord with the following:- 

(a) 
       
     Three sets of elevations to describe the space with all electric outlets. 

(b) 
       
     Three copies of the reflected ceiling plan with a schedule
indicating the voltage, type, wattage, quantity and location of outlets for
all light fittings and air-conditioning. 

(c) 
       
     Three copies of the floor plan with partitions. 

(d) 
       
     Three copies of the office layout prints of all case work
including the location of all sockets, switches, fuse box, telephone points,
size, weight and location of the safe, if any. 

10.3 
       
     Prior to the commencement of any works, the Tenant shall furnish the Landlord
with the following information :- 

(a) 
       
     The names and address(es) of the appointed designer/agent for
the Premises, the general contractor(s) to be engaged in the construction of
the Tenant s work and the Tenant s authorised agent/representative. 

(b) 
       
     The proposed commencement date of the interior decoration
works and the estimated date of completion thereof, and the projected date of
opening of the Premises for business. 

(c) 
       
     Office layout drawings in triplicate for the Landlord s written approval. 

- 8 -

11  
       
      Inspection by Landlord  

To permit the inspection of all Tenant s work by the Landlord, the Landlord s Architect and
Landlord s General Contractor from time to time during the period in which Tenant s work
aforesaid is being performed.

12  
       
      Reimbursement to Landlord  

The Landlord shall have the right to perform on behalf of and for the account of the Tenant,
subject to reimbursement by the Tenant, any of the Tenant s work which the Landlord
determines shall be so performed. Such work shall be limited to work which the Landlord
deems necessary to be done on an emergency basis, work caused by the Tenant s fault, and
work which pertains to structural components, the general utility systems for the Building
and the erection of temporary safety barricades and temporary signs during construction.

13  
       
      Good repair of interior  

To keep all the interior of the Premises, the flooring and interior plaster or other
finishing material or rendering to walls floors and ceilings, and the Landlord s fixtures
and additions including the central air-conditioning unit, doors, window, fan coil units,
air ductings, electrical installation wiring piping and fittings for light, power and water
in good clean, tenantable and proper repair and condition and properly preserved and painted
as may be appropriate when from time to time required and to so maintain the same throughout
the Term at the expense of the Tenant and deliver up the same to the Landlord at the
expiration or sooner determination of the Term in such repair and the like condition (fair
wear and tear excepted) PROVIDED that the Tenant shall reimburse to the Landlord the cost of
repairing or replacing any air-conditioning units or other part of the air-conditioning
apparatus or installation within the Premises which is damaged or rendered defective due to
the act or neglect of the Tenant.

14  
       
      Fire fighting and security system  

To ensure at all times that all fire alarms, fire fighting equipment, roller shutters and
other equipment for security purposes provided by the Landlord are not disrupted,
interrupted, damaged or caused to be defective through the act, default or neglect of the
Tenant, his servants, agents, licensees or customers. The Tenant may not under any
circumstances cover up any hose-reel, break-glass unit or alarm bell.

To test all circuits for shorts and earthing and to balance loads on all panels.

- 9 -

16  
       
      Passage of wires pipes cables etc  

The Tenant agrees that permanent utility lines may pass through the ceiling cavity of the
Premises to service other premises and areas in the Building.

To provide battery operated type emergency lighting and exit signs in locations within the
Premises as required by any codes and regulations, and as deemed necessary by the Landlord.

To provide earthing within the Premises as required by any codes and regulations from time
to time in force.

19  
       
      Statutes, codes         ordinances  

To comply with all applicable statutes, codes, ordinances and other regulations for all work
performed by or on behalf of the Tenant within the Premises and the Landlord s or the
Landlord s agent s approval of plans, specifications, calculations or otherwise of the
Tenant s work shall not constitute any implication, representation or certification by the
Landlord that the works are in compliance with said statutes, codes, ordinances, and other
regulations.

20  
       
      Rules and regulations made by the Building Manager  

To observe faithfully and comply strictly with the Building rules and regulations as set
out in the Fourth Schedule hereto and such other rules and regulations as the Landlord or
the Landlord s agents or the Building Manager of the Building may from time to time
prescribe for the proper management and maintenance of the Premises and the Building.
Notice of any additional rules or regulations shall be given in such manner as the Landlord
or the Building Manager may elect. Such rules and regulations shall be binding upon the
Tenant and shall have the same force and effect as if set out in the body of this
Agreement.

21  
       
      First class office premises  

To fit out, use, manage and otherwise maintain the Premises so as not to prejudice the
goodwill and reputation of the Building as first class office premises.

- 10 -

22  
       
      Protection from typhoon  

To take all reasonable precautions to protect the interior of the Premises against
damage by storm or typhoon or the like threats and in particular to ensure any exterior doors
and windows are securely fastened upon the threat of such adverse weather conditions . 

23  
       
      Third party insurance  

To effect and maintain throughout the Term insurance cover in respect of the Tenant s
obligations under Section V with a reputable insurance company to the satisfaction of the
Landlord and to produce to the Landlord, as and when so required by the Landlord, the policy
of such insurance together with the receipt for the last payment of premium and a
certificate from the relevant insurance company that the policy is fully paid up and in all
respects valid and subsisting, in default of which the Landlord shall be entitled (but not
obliged) at the Tenant s expense to effect such insurance cover. The policy of such
insurance shall be in the name of the Tenant and endorsed to show the interest of the
Landlord in the Premises and the Building and shall be in such amount as the Landlord may
from time to time stipulate and shall contain a clause to the effect that the insurance
cover thereby effected and the terms and conditions thereof shall not be cancelled modified
or restricted without the prior written consent of the Landlord.

24  
       
      Insurance of Contents  

To be wholly responsible for any loss or damage to property within the Premises
including without limitation all furniture fixtures fittings goods chattels samples
personal effects contents and to effect with a reputable insurance company adequate
insurance cover for the same in their full replacement value against all risks including
without limitation those risks perils or under circumstances for which the Landlord s
liability is expressly or impliedly excluded under this Agreement. The Tenant undertakes to
produce and make available to the Landlord as and when so required by the Landlord copies
of the policy of such insurance together with the receipt for the last payment of premium
and a certificate from the relevant insurance company that the policy is fully paid up and
in all respects valid and subsisting.

To keep the Premises including all windows and lights at all times in a clean and
sanitary state and condition. No other cleaning contractors for the internal cleaning of
the Premises shall be employed by the Tenant without the Landlord s or the Manager s prior
written consent.

- 11 -

In the event of the pipes, drains, ducts, sanitary or plumbing apparatus of the Building
becoming choked or stopped up owing to the careless or improper use by the Tenant its
servants agents licensees invitees the Tenant shall pay to the Landlord the costs incurred in
cleaning and clearing the same from obstruction.

27  
       
      Replacement of broken windows  

To replace or to reimburse the Landlord for the cost of replacing any broken or damaged
windows and/or glass panels and fixtures within and/or encompassing the Premises whether the
same be broken or damaged by the negligence of the Tenant or owing to circumstances beyond
tine control of the Tenant.

To take good care of the fixtures fittings including but not limited to the central
air-conditioning unit and other articles provided by the Landlord within the Premises and to
make good and pay for all damage caused by the Tenant its servants or licensees to any of
them. The Tenant may not remove any of them from the Premises and shall deliver up the same
to the Landlord at the expiration or sooner determination of the tenancy in good condition.

29  
       
      Maintenance of sanitary and water apparatus  

To keep the sanitary and water apparatus (if any) used exclusively by the Tenant and his
servants agents licensees workmen or visitors in good, clean and tenantable repair and
condition (fair wear and tear excepted) to the satisfaction of the Landlord and in
accordance with the Regulations or bye-laws of all Public Health and other Government
Authorities concerned or to use in common with others the lavatories and washing
accommodations and facilities provided by the Landlord in the Building and not to permit or
suffer the same to be used in any improper manner or whereby the soil or waste pipes may
become impeded or blocked and at all times to indemnify the Landlord against liability for
damage by the escape of water thereby caused to the properties or effects of the tenants or
occupiers of the other part of the Building.

To take all due precautions to prevent the Premises from becoming infested with insects or
vermin. The Tenant shall employ at its own expense such pest extermination contractors as
the Landlord may require and at such intervals as the Landlord may direct. Without
prejudice to the aforesaid, in the event of the Premises becoming so infested, the Tenant
shall pay for the cost of extermination or deinfestation as arranged or approved by the
Landlord and the selected exterminators shall be given full access to the Premises for

- 12 -

such purpose.

SECTION IV 
RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS 

1  
       
      Breach of Government Lease  

Not to do or cause to be done or suffer or permit any act deed matter or thing whatsoever
which constitutes a breach of any of the terms and conditions in the Government Lease or
Conditions under which the Premises are held or in contravention of any of ordinances
regulations by-laws rules notices requirements or restrictions or prohibitions imposed by any
appropriate government authority in connection with the Premises or any trade that is now or
may hereafter be declared an offensive trade by any government authority. 

2  
       
      Breach of Deed of Mutual Covenant, etc.  

Not to do or cause to be done or suffer or permit any act deed matter or thing
whatsoever which shall or may amount to a breach of the covenants terms and provisions of
the Deed of Mutual Covenant and Management Agreement (if any) relating to the Building so
far as they relate to the occupation and use of the Premises and to indemnify the Landlord
against all and any breach non-observance or non-performance thereof. 

3  
       
      Breach of insurance policy  

Not to do or permit or suffer to be done any act deed matter or thing whatsoever
whereby the insurance on the Building against loss or damage by fire and/or other insurable
perils and/or claims by third parties for the time being in force may be rendered void or
voidable or whereby the premium thereon may be increased Provided that if as the result of
any act deed matter or thing done permitted or suffered by the Tenant the premium on any
such policy of insurance shall be increased the Landlord shall be entitled without prejudice
to any other remedy hereunder to recover from the Tenant the amount of any such increase. 

4  
       
      Subletting and assigning  

Not to assign underlet transfer licence share or otherwise part with the possession of
the Premises or any part thereof either by way of subletting lending sharing or other means
whereby any organization company firm or person or persons not a party to this Agreement
obtains the use or possession of the Premises or any part thereof, irrespective of whether
any rental or other consideration is given therefor. This tenancy is personal to the Tenant
named in this Agreement and without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing the
following acts and events shall, unless previously approved in writing by the Landlord, be
deemed to be breaches of this clause:- 

- 13 -

4.1 
       
     In the case of a tenant which is a partnership, the taking in of one or more new
partners whether on the death or retirement of an existing partner or otherwise. 

4.2 
       
     In the case of a tenant who is an individual (including a sole surviving partner
of a partnership tenant) the death insanity or disability of that individual to the
intent that no right to use possess occupy or enjoy the Premises or any part thereof
shall vest in the executors administrators personal representatives next of kin trustee
or committee of any such individual. 

4.3 
       
     In the case of a tenant which is a corporation any take-over, reconstruction
amalgamation, merger, voluntary liquidation or change in the person or persons who owns
or own a majority of its voting shares or who otherwise has or have effective control
thereof. 

4.4 
       
     The giving by the Tenant of a Power of Attorney or similar authority whereby the
donee of the Power obtains the right to use possess occupy or enjoy the Premises or any
part thereof or does in fact use possess occupy or enjoy the same. 

4.5 
       
     The change of the Tenant s business name without the previous written consent of
the Landlord and in connection with any application for consent under this provision,
the Landlord may require the Tenant to produce such evidence as the Landlord may think
fit to show that no breach of the provisions of this Clause 4 has taken place or is
about to take place. 

5  
       
      Sale by auction  

Not to permit or suffer to be held upon the Premises any sale by auction or sale of a similar
nature upon the Premises. 

6  
       
      Alterations, additions, etc.  

6.1 
       
     Not to make or permit any alterations or additions (whether or not of a
structural nature) to or in the Premises or any part thereof either internally or
externally or to any fixtures or fittings or electrical wiring or electrical/mechanical
installations or fire-prevention system or air-conditioning system or plumbing and
drainage system or building services system or to any item therein nor to pull down,
alter or remove any portions of the doors windows partitions or fittings of the Premises
without the prior written consent of the Landlord. 

6.2 
       
     Not to change or in any way to alter the appearance of the standard entrance
doors provided by the Landlord for access to and egress from the Premises 

- 14 -

without having first obtained the written consent of the Landlord therefor. 

6.3 
       
     Not to install additional locks bolts or additional fittings to the entrance doors
of the Premises or in any way to cut or alter the same without having first obtained the
written consent of the Landlord therefor. 

6.4 
       
     Not to install set up or affix or permit to be installed set up affixed in or
upon the Premises or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever any engine machinery or
mechanical device or plant or air-conditioning or heating system. 

7  
       
      Disfigure structures, fixtures, etc . 

Not to damage or disfigure any structures fixtures, canopies decorations, installations
outside the Premises including central air-conditioning unit, mail chutes, refuse chutes,
halls, passages, drainage walls, walls, partitions, ceilings, and to pay on demand to the
Landlord the costs and expenses incurred by the Landlord in repairing or making good such
damage or cleaning the same. 

8  
       
      Installation in or damage to common areas  

Not to lay, install, affix or attach any wiring, cables or other article or thing whatsoever
in or upon any areas or parts of the Building in common use or in any place which is not
hereby exclusively let to the Tenant nor to damage injure or deface any part of the fabric
or walls or roof of the Building or of the common areas stairs and lifts and other
facilities of the Building. 

9  
       
      Signs  

9.1 
       
     Not to affix, erect, attach, exhibit, display or permit or suffer so to be done
upon any part within or on the exterior or at the show windows (if any) of the Premises
or to or through any windows thereof any writing sign decoration signboard notice
advertisement placard neon light or other device (whether illuminated or not) which may
be visible from outside the Premises except that the name of the Tenant (or any new name
of the Tenant as approved by the Landlord under Clause 4 of Section IV) and the nature
of the trade or business carried out thereon may be displayed on the Directory Boards
provided by the Landlord but only in such form and place and character as shall be first
approved by the Landlord, and the costs thereof shall be borne by the Tenant solely. 

9.2 
       
     The Landlord or its authorised agents shall have the right and at the cost and
expense of the Tenant to remove, relocate and to improve the arrangement of any
unauthorised writing, sign, decoration signboard notice advertisement 

- 15 -

placard neon light or device affixed or put up or displayed without the
proper approval of the Landlord or its agents. 

10  
       
      Floor loading capacity  

Not to place any load upon any floor of the Premises in excess of the loading
capacity for which the floor is designed. The Landlord reserves the right to prescribe the
weight and position of all safes and any heavy articles which must be placed so as to
distribute the weight. Business machines and mechanical equipment authorised by the Landlord
shall be placed and maintained by the Tenant at the Tenant s expense in settings sufficient
in the Landlord s judgement to absorb and prevent vibration noise and annoyance to occupiers
of the other portions of the Building. 

11  
       
      Freight lift carrying capacity  

Not to place any heavy machinery goods raw materials or articles in any freight lift
in excess of the permitted carrying capacity for which the lift is designed. 

12  
       
      Passenger lift  

Not to use or permit to be used the passenger lifts of the Building for the purpose of
carrying any furniture or goods or heavy articles (the Landlord having provided freight lifts
for such purpose), and to observe the regulations affecting the use of all lifts as indicated
therein or intimated by the Landlord or the Building Manager of the Building or its agents
from time to time. 

13  
       
      Nuisance  

Not to do or permit to be done in or upon the Premises or any part thereof anything
which may be or become a nuisance or cause annoyance damage or disturbance to the Landlord
or to any of the tenants or occupiers of any other portion of the Building or of other
property in the neighbourhood or in any way affect the reputation of the Building or be
contrary to the laws or regulations of Hong Kong. 

14  
       
      Noise  

Not to do or permit or suffer to be done upon the Premises or any part thereof any
music noise (including sound produced by broadcasting from television, radio and any
apparatus or instrument capable of producing or reproducing music and sound) or other act
matter or thing whatsoever which may be or become a nuisance or annoyance, or cause damage
or disturbance to the Landlord or the owners tenants lessees or occupiers of any adjoining
or neighbouring premises. 

- 16 -

15  
       
      Combustible or dangerous goods  

Not to keep or store or permit to be kept or stored in or upon the Premises any arms,
ammunition, gun-powder, salt-petre, kerosene or other explosive or inflammable dangerous or
prohibited goods or materials (as defined in the Dangerous Goods Ordinance (Cap.2-95) or any
legislation replacing the same or any orders or regulations made thereunder). 

16  
       
      Storage of goods  

Not to use the Premises or any part thereof for the purposes of the manufacture of
goods and merchandise or for the storage of excessive amount of goods or merchandise other
than in quantities consistent with the nature and smooth running of the Tenant s business. 

17  
       
      Animals  

Not to keep any birds or livestock of any description or any noxious goods or articles on
the Premises. 

18  
       
      Illegal or immoral purposes  

Not to use or permit or suffer the Premises to be used or any part thereof for the
purpose of gambling in contravention to the Gambling Ordinance or for any illegal or immoral
purpose. 

19  
       
      Preparation of food  

Not without the prior written consent of the Landlord to prepare or permit or suffer
to be prepared any food in the Premises and not to permit or suffer any unusual or
objectionable odours to be produced upon or to permeate from the Premises. 

20  
       
      Sleeping or domestic use  

Not without the Landlord s prior permission in writing, permit any person to remain
in the Premises overnight. Such permission if given shall only be given in order to enable
the Tenant to post watchmen to look after the contents of the Premises, which shall not be
used as sleeping quarters or as domestic premises within the meaning of the Landlord and
Tenant (Consolidation) Ordinance for the time being in force. 

21  
       
      Obstructions in common areas  

Not to encumber obstruct or permit to be encumbered or obstructed with any boxes, 

- 17 -

packaging, merchandise, rubbish or other articles or obstructions of any kind or nature
at any of the entrances, exits, staircases, landings, passages, lifts, escalators, lobbies or
other parts of the Building not included in the Premises. In addition to any other reanedies
which the Landlord may have hereunder, the Landlord, its servants or agents may without any
prior notice to the Tenant remove any such obstruction and dispose of the same as they
may think fit without incurring any liability therefor and the Tenant shall on demand pay to
the Landlord all costs and expenses incurred in such removal. 

22  
       
      Movement of heavy machinery  

Not to move any safe heavy machinery equipment and freight bulky matter or fixtures in and
out of the Building without first obtaining the Landlord s written consent. The Tenant shall
keep the Landlord indemnified against all damages sustained by any person or property and
for any damages or monies paid out by the Landlord in settlement of any claim or judgements
as well as legal costs incurred in connection therewith and all costs incurred in repairing
any damage to the Building or its appurtenances resulting from movement of any heavy
machinery equipment freight bulky matter or fixtures. Upon the Tenant requiring to move to
and from the Premises any such items, the Tenant hereby undertakes at all times to use the
service lifts provided by Landlord for such purposes and to notify Landlord and arrange with
the Landlord a suitable time for such deliveries or removals to be effected. 

23  
       
      No incense to be burnt  

Not to burn or permit to be burnt incense in the Premises or in any part of the
Building. 

24  
       
      Fire risk  

Not to do or permit any act or thing to be done which is likely to cause any fire risk or
other hazard in the Building. 

25  
       
      No loading in parking area  

Not to obstruct or otherwise use nor permit any employee agent or licencee of the Tenant to
obstruct or otherwise use these areas of the Building allocated to the parking or movement
of or access for vehicles or designated as loading/unloading areas otherwise than in
accordance with the regulations from time to time made by the Landlord. 

26  
       
      Use of building name  

Not without the previous written consent of the Landlord to use or permit to be used the
name/logo or any part of the name/logo of the Landlord or of the Building or any picture
representation or likeness of the whole or any part of such name/logo or of the Building 

- 18 -

or of the Premises in connection with the business or operations of the Tenant or for any
purpose whatsoever other than to indicate the address and place of business of the Tenant. 

27  
       
      Telephone service  

Not without the Landlord s prior written consent to use any telephone service provider other
than that designated or approved by the Landlord. 

SECTION V 
INDEMNITIES 

1  
       
      Indemnify Landlord  

The Tenant shall indemnify the Landlord against all liabilities, claims, demands, actions,
proceedings, damages, losses, costs and expenses arising directly or indirectly from or
incidental to the use or occupation of the Premises, the execution of alterations, additions
or repairs to the Premises, any non-compliance by the Tenant with its obligations under this
Agreement, or any other act, default, neglect or omission by the Tenant, its employees,
contractors, servants, agents, licenses, visitors or invitees. 

2  
       
      Indemnity against loss/damage from interior  

Without prejudice to Clause 1 of Section V, the Tenant shall be wholly responsible for any
loss damage or injury caused to any person or property caused directly or indirectly through
the want of repair of the interior of the Premises or the defective or damaged condition of
any part of interior of the Premises or of any of the fixtures and fittings therein or in
any way owing to the spread of fire or smoke or the overflow of water from the Premises or
any part thereof. 

3  
       
      Indemnity against Overflow of Water  

To be wholly responsible for any loss or damage caused to any person or property caused by
or through or in any way owing to the escape or overflow of water from the Premises and to
make good the same by payment or otherwise and to indemnify the Landlord against all costs
claims demands actions and legal proceedings whatsoever made upon the Landlord by any person
in respect of such loss damage or injury and costs and expenses incidental thereto. 

SECTION VI 
LANDLORD S OBLIGATIONS 

The Landlord hereby agrees with the Tenant as follows:-

- 19 -

1  
       
      Quiet enjoyment  

To permit the Tenant (duly paying the rent rates Government rent (if any) Management Fee
and Air-Conditioning Charge and observing and performing the terms and conditions herein
contained) to have quiet possession and enjoyment of the Premises during the Term without any
interruption by the Landlord or any person or persons lawfully claiming through, under or in
trust for the Landlord. 

2  
       
      Roof and main structure, etc.  

To use its best endeavours or arrange for the building manager to use its best
endeavours to amend and repair such defects in the roof, main electricity supply cables,
main drain pipes, main walls and exterior windows frames of the Building and the lifts and
the central air-conditioning system as the Landlord shall discover or as the Tenant or other
authorised person or Authority shall notify to the Landlord in writing and to maintain the
same in a proper state of repair and condition at the cost of the Landlord PROVIDED that the
Landlord shall be entitled to be given a reasonable period of time wherein to view any such
defects and to amend and repair the same. 

3  
       
      Lifts, air-conditioning services, etc.  

To use its best endeavours or arrange for the building manager to use its best
endeavours to maintain and keep the lifts, escalators., air-conditioning system and services
of the Building in a proper state of repair and condition. 

4  
       
      Property tax  

To pay the Property Tax for the time being payable in respect of the Premises. 

5  
       
      Maintenance of common parts  

To use its best endeavors or arrange for the building manager to use its best endeavors
to: 

5.1 
       
     Maintain, light, clean, operate and service all the common parts of the Building; 

5.2 
       
     Keep the common parts toilets and other parts of the Building for common use
clean and in proper condition; and 

5.3 
       
     Maintain lifts escalators fire and security services equipment air-conditioning
plant and other facilities of the Building in proper working order. 

6  
       
      Directory board  

- 20 -

To maintain at the main entrances and in all other places as the Landlord shall deem
fit directory boards and to allot space thereon for Tenant s name to be affixed in such
uniform lettering or characters as shall be designated by the Landlord. 

SECTION VII 
EXCLUSIONS OF LIABILITY 

1  
       
     The Landlord shall not be liable to the Tenant its servants licensees or invitees in
respect of any claim loss (including but not limited to loss of profits) damage or injury to
person or property sustained by the Tenant or any such other person caused by or through or
in any way owing to :- 

1.1  
       
      Lifts escalators and other services  

any defect in or breakdown or suspension of the lifts escalators fire
fighting detection system water sprinkler equipment central air-conditioning
system or other facilities of the Building or any of them; or 

12  
       
      Electricity supply  

any failure malfunction explosion or suspension of the electricity supply
to the Building or the Premises; or 

1.3  
       
      Fire overflow of water and vermin  

fire or the overflow or leakage of water including rain, storm or sea water
from anywhere within the Building or the influx of water including rain, storm or
sea water into the Building or the Premises or the escape of fumes, smoke, fire or
to activity of termites pests rats or other vermin in the Building; or 

1.4  
       
      Typhoon  

in respect of loss or damage caused by through or in anywise owing to any
typhoon; or 

1.5  
       
      Water sprinklers  

any use of water sprinkler devices or their coming into operation whether
by intentional operation or as a result of mechanical failure or malfunction; or 

1.6  
       
      Services  

- 21 -

the adequacy or otherwise of any of the management services (including security)
rendered by the Landlord and/or the Building Manager or the Cleaning Services
rendered by Best Result Cleaning Services Limited or the failure to render the same
or the suspension or interruption thereof for whatever reason; 

nor shall the Rent or Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge or service charge or any
part thereof cease to be payable other than in the circumstances set out in Section VIII. 

SECTION
VIII  
ABATEMENT OF RENT 

1  
       
      Abatement  

1.1 
       
     If the Premises or the Building or any part thereof shall at any time during the
Term be destroyed or damaged or become unfit for occupation not due to any default of
the Tenant but owing to fire flooding storm typhoon defective construction white ants
earthquake subsidence of the ground or any calamity beyond the control of the Landlord
and the policy or policies of insurance effected by the Landlord shall not have been
vitiated or payment of policy moneys refused in whole or in part in consequence of any
act or default of the Tenant or if at any time during the continuance of this tenancy
the Premises shall be condemned as a dangerous structure or a demolition order or a
closing order shall become operative in respect of the Premises the rent hereby reserved
or a proportionate part thereof according to the extent and duration of the damage
sustained shall be suspended until the Premises shall again be rendered fit for
occupation and use. 

1.2 
       
     The Landlord shall be under no obligation to repair or to reinstate the Premises
if by reason of the condition of the same or any local Regulations or other
circumstances beyond the control of the Landlord it is not practicable or reasonable to
do so. 

1.3 
       
     If the whole or substantially the whole of the Premises are not repaired or
reinstated within three months from the occurrence of such event or the order either the
Landlord or the Tenant shall have the right thereafter to determine this Agreement by
giving one month s notice in writing to the other, whereupon everything herein contained
shall determine as from the date of the expiry of such notice but without prejudice to
the rights and remedies of either party against the other in respect of any antecedent
claim or breach of the agreements stipulations terms and conditions herein contained or
of the Landlord in respect of the rent payable hereunder prior to the coming into effect
of the cessation of the liability to pay rent. 

- 22 -

SECTION IX 
DEFAULT 

It is hereby further expressly agreed and declared as follows:-

1  
       
      Default  

If the Rent or other charges or additional outgoings with interest thereon (if any) hereby reserved
or any part thereof shall be in arrears at any time after the due date (whether formally demanded
or not) or if there shall be any other breach or non-performance of any of the covenants
stipulations conditions or agreements herein contained and on the part of the Tenant to be observed
or performed or if the Tenant shall become bankrupt or being a corporation go into liquidation
whether compulsory or voluntary (save for the purposes of amalgamation or reconstruction) or if a
receiver or a receiver and manager is being appointed against all or any of the asset or business
of the Tenant or if any petition shall be filed for the winding up of the Tenant or if the Tenant
shall otherwise become insolvent or enter into any arrangement or composition for the benefit of
the Tenant s creditor(s) or shall suffer any distress or execution to be levied upon the Premises or
otherwise on the Tenant s goods or effects or if the Tenant persistently fails to pay the Rent or
any payments hereby stipulated and when due, then and in any such case it shall be lawful for the
Landlord or any person duly authorised in that behalf at any time thereafter to re-enter into and
upon the Premises or any part thereof in the name of the whole whereupon this Agreement shall
absolutely determine and the deposit paid as hereinafter mentioned shall be absolutely forfeited to
the Landlord as and for liquidated damages and not as penalty but without prejudice to any right of
action by the Landlord in respect of any outstanding breach or non-observance or non-performance by
the Tenant of any of the terms of this Agreement and the Landlord shall be entitled to recover from
the Tenant all loss and damage it sustains as a direct or indirect result of such early
determination. 

2  
       
      Service of notice  

A written notice served by the Landlord on the Tenant or left at the Premises, to the effect
that the Landlord thereby exercises the power of re-entry, shall be a full and sufficient exercise
of such power without actual entry on the part of the Landlord. 

3  
       
      Acceptance of rent  

The acceptance of any rent by the Landlord hereunder shall not be deemed to operate or be regarded
by the Tenant as a waiver by the Landlord of any right to proceed against the Tenant in respect of
any breach or non-observance or non-performance by the Tenant of any of the covenants agreements
stipulations terms and conditions herein contained and 

- 23 -

on the part of the Tenant to be observed and performed. 

4  
       
      Interest  

Without prejudice to the right of the Landlord to exercise any other right or remedy
(including the right of re-entry) exercisable under the terms of this
Agreement, in the event of
default in payment of Rent and/or any charges payable hereunder or any part thereof on its due
date, the Tenant shall further pay to the Landlord on demand interest on the amount in arrears at
the rate of 1.5% per month calculated from the date on which the same became due for payment until
the date of payment as liquidated damages and not as penalty. 

5  
       
      Act of employees, etc.  

For the purpose of these presents any act default neglect or omission on the part of any guest
visitor servant contractor employee agent invitee or licensee of the Tenant shall be deemed to be
the act default neglect or omission of the Tenant. 

6  
       
      Distraint  

In addition to Rent any amounts falling due under this Agreement may be recovered by distress
as rent in arrears. For the purposes of Part III of the Landlord and Tenant (Consolidation)
Ordinance (Cap.7) and of these presents, the Rent payable in respect of the Premises and other
amounts recoverable by distress as rent in arrears shall be and be deemed to be in arrears if not
paid in advance at the times and in the manner hereinbefore provided for payment thereof. All costs
and expenses of and incidental to distraint shall be paid by the Tenant on a full indemnity basis
and shall be recoverable from it as a debt. 

7  
       
      Recovery of Landlord s expenses  

The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord on an indemnity basis all costs fees charges disbursements and
expenses (including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing those payable to counsels
solicitors (on a solicitor-and-own client basis) surveyors architects and bailiffs) incurred by the
Landlord in relation or incidental to or in respect of: 

(a) 
       
     the preparation and service of a notice under Section 58 of the Conveyancing and
Property Ordinance (Cap.219), notwithstanding forfeiture is avoided otherwise than by relief
granted by the Court; and 

(b) 
       
     the Tenant s non-observance or non-performance of the terms of this Agreement and/or
the Landlord s exercise of its rights and powers under this Agreement, including but not limited
to recovery of rent and the Landlord s 

- 24 -

exercise of its right of re-entry. 

SECTION X 
GENERAL 

1  
       
        Yield Up Premises And Handover  

1.1 
       
      (a)  The Tenant shall yield up the Premises with all keys giving access to all parts of
the Premises with all fixtures fittings and additions therein and thereto at the expiration
or sooner determination of this Agreement in good clean and tenantable repair and condition
in accordance with the stipulations herein contained.

(b) 
       
     Where the Tenant has made any alterations or installed any fixtures or
additions to the Premises whether with or without the Landlord s consent, the
Landlord may at its discretion require the Tenant to reinstate, remove or do away
with such alterations fixtures or additions or any part or portion thereof and
thereafter make good and repair in a proper and workmanlike manner any damage to
the Premises and the Landlord s fixtures and fittings therein as a result thereof
before delivering up the Premises to the Landlord. 

(c) 
       
     If required by the Landlord, the Tenant shall at its own cost remove
or do away with all alterations fixtures or additions to the Premises whether the
same were made by the Tenant or not, and make good and repair in a proper and
workmanlike manner any damage to the Premises as a result thereof and deliver the
Premises to the Landlord in a bare-shell condition upon the expiration or sooner
determination of this Agreement. 

(d) 
       
     Should the Tenant fail to remove any fixtures or additions and
reinstate the Premises as required by the Landlord as aforesaid, the Landlord shall
be entitled at its sole discretion to remove the said fixtures or additions and
reinstate the Premises at the sole expense of the Tenant and the cost thereof shall
be a debt due from the Tenant to the Landlord and be recoverable forthwith by
action. 

1.2 
       
     The Tenant hereby irrevocably appoints the Landlord as its agent with authority
to enter upon the Premises and to deal with at the Tenant s risk and expense any of the
Tenant s effects left on or about the Premises for more than five days after the expiry of
the Term or its determination (howsoever arising or occasioned) to the intent that the
Landlord may without liability to the Tenant dispose of or destroy or otherwise deal with
the same as the Landlord shall think fit. In the event that the Landlord is unable to gain
access to the Premises, the Tenant 

- 25 -

expressly confirms that the Landlord as its agent may use any means (including the use
of force) to effect entry upon the Premises. 

2  
       
      No excuse for non-payment of rent  

This Agreement and the obligation of the Tenant to pay rent and other sums due hereunder and
to perform the Tenant s obligations hereunder shall in no way be affected impaired or excused
because the Landlord is unable due to circumstances beyond its control to fulfil any of its
obligations under this Agreement or to supply or is delayed in supplying any service expressly or
implied to be supplied or is unable to make or is delayed in making any repair additions
alterations or decoration or is unable to supply or is delayed in supplying any equipment or
fixtures if the Landlord is prevented or delayed from so doing by reason of strike labour shortage
of materials or any outside cause whatsoever or by reason of any order or regulation of any
department of the Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

3  
       
      Condonation not a waiver  

3.1 
       
     No condoning, excusing or overlooking by the Landlord of any default,
breach or non-observance or non-performance by the Tenant at any time or times of any of the
covenants agreements stipulations terms and conditions herein contained shall operate or be
regarded by the Tenant as a waiver of the Landlord s rights hereunder in respect of any continuing
or subsequent default, breach or non-observance or non- performance or so as to defeat or affect in
any way the rights and remedies of the Landlord hereunder in respect of any such continuing or
subsequent default or breach and no waiver by the Landlord shall be inferred from or implied by
anything done or omitted by the Landlord, unless expressed in writing and signed by me Landlord. 

3.2 
       
     Any consent given by the Landlord shall operate as a consent only for the
particular matter to which it relates and shall in no way be considered as a waiver or release of
any of the provisions hereof nor shall it be construed as dispensing with the necessity of
obtaining the specific written consent of the Landlord in the future, unless expressly so provided. 

4  
       
      Approval of Landlord  

The Landlord and its authorised agents shall have absolute discretion in granting or
refusing any approval sought by the Tenant hereunder and any approval if granted may be subject to
such conditions as the Landlord or its agents think fit. No approval by the Landlord is valid
unless it is in writing and is signed and dated by the Landlord or its authorised agent. 

- 26 -

5  
       
      Re-letting notice  

During the three (3) months immediately preceding the determination of the Term the Landlord
shall be at liberty to affix and retain without interference upon any external part of the Premises
a notice for re-letting the same. 

6  
       
      Service of notices  

Any notice required to be served hereunder shall be sufficiently served on the Tenant if delivered
to it by post or left addressed to it at the Premises or at its last known address in Hong Kong and
shall be sufficiently served on the Landlord if sent to it by post or delivered to it at the
address given herein or any other address which the Landlord may notify to the Tenant from time to
time. A notice sent by post shall be deemed to have been given at the time when in due course of
post it would be delivered at the address to which it is sent. 

7  
       
      Legal costs  

The Landlord s solicitors  legal cots (calculated at full scale), disbursements and other legal
expenses in connection with the preparation and signing of this Agreement and its counterpart shall
be borne by the Landlord and the Tenant in equal shares. Should the Tenant engage a separate firm
of solicitors to act on its behalf then each party shall pay its own solicitor s costs. 

8  
       
      Stamp duty  

The stamp duty upon this Agreement and its counterpart, the Land Registry registration fees
(if any), the ratification fee (if any) and all other disbursements in connection with this
Agreement and its counterpart shall be borne by the Landlord and the Tenant in equal shares. 

9  
       
      No premium or fine  

The Tenant hereby expressly admits and declares that no premium or fine or other consideration
or key money has been paid to me Landlord by the Tenant for the creation of this tenancy. 

10  
       
      Exclusion of Warranty as to use  

Nothing in this Agreement or in any consent granted by the Landlord under this Agreement shall
imply or warrant that the Premises may be used for the purpose authorised in this Agreement. In the
event that the Government or any competent 

- 27 -

authority serves notice prohibiting the use of the Premises in the manner permitted hereunder the
Tenant shall forthwith comply with the notice failing which the Landlord shall be entitled to
terminate this Agreement by one month s notice or such shorter notice as may be required or as the
parties may agree. On the expiration of the Landlord s notice, this Agreement shall terminate but
without prejudice to either party s claim against the other in respect of any antecedent breach of
this Agreement. 

11  
       
      Full Agreement  

Subject to Clause 12 below, this Agreement sets out the full and only agreement reached between the
parties and supersedes any other representations, warranties, or understandings, written or verbal,
that the parties may have had with respect to the Premises and the Building. 

12  
       
      Outstanding obligations  

Any outstanding obligations on the part of the Tenant to be observed and performed under the Offer
Letter and/or the Agreement for Tenancy Agreement (if any) pursuant to which this Agreement is
entered into shall continue to be in force and shall not merge with this Agreement unless the
Landlord shall otherwise stipulate. 

13  
       
      Sales and Redevelopment  

13.1 
       
     Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at
any time during the Term the Landlord shall decide to redevelop, renovate, refurbish or redesign
the Building or any part thereof (which decision shall be sufficiently evidenced by a certified
true copy of the relevant Board Resolution of the Landlord) or shall sell assign or enter into any
agreement for the sale or assignment of the whole or any part of the Building which includes the
Premises, the Landlord shall be entitled to give six (6) calendar months  notice in writing to the
Tenant to determine this Agreement and at the expiry of such notice everything herein contained
shall cease and be void and the Tenant shall immediately deliver up vacant possession of the
Premises to the Landlord. 

13.2 
       
     The Tenant shall not be entitled to claim against the Landlord for any compensation
for the loss of goodwill or business, damages or any costs and expenses incurred by the Tenant
whatsoever but any such termination shall be without prejudice to the rights and remedies of either
party against the other in respect of any antecedent claim or breach of any terms or stipulations
herein-contained. 

13.3 
       
     The expression  Landlord  in this clause shall include the Landlord s successors in
title and this clause shall ensure for the benefit of the Landlord s 

- 28 -

successors in title. 

13.4 
       
     It is also agreed and declared notwithstanding any other provision herein and
notwithstanding any law to the contrary the Tenant s option right(s) (if any) shall be extinguished
and determined upon the service of the said notice of termination whether such rights shall have
been exercised by the Tenant or not. 

13.5 
       
     The Tenant shall not be entitled to any claim against the Landlord for any damages
or compensation or any relief against such extinguishment and determination of its option right(s). 

14  
       
      Consent for the release of information  

14.1 
       
     The Tenant acknowledges and agrees that from time to time, during and after the
expiry of this tenancy, it may be necessary for the Landlord to disclose, release, transfer or
otherwise make use of information relating to the Tenant collected, held or processed by the
Landlord. 

14.2 
       
     The Tenant agrees and consents to the disclosure, release, transfer or other use of
such information by the Landlord for the purposes of, or in connection with, the tenancy hereby
created, or such other purposes as the Landlord may deem fit. 

15  
       
      Reservation of rights  

The Landlord reserves the right, exercisable at any time or times: - 

15.1 
       
     To install or erect at the entrances passages passageways doorways corridors
landings staircases lobbies or other public parts of the Building, counters, showcases or light
boxes and to change the arrangement and/or location of entrances passageways doors doorways
corridors landings staircases lobbies lifts escalators toilets or other public parts of the
Building or any service or apparatus serving the Building. 

15.2 
       
     To change the name or description of the Building or any part hereof PROVIDED that
in such event, the Landlord shall give to the Tenant and the Postal and other Government
Authorities not less than three months  advance notice in writing of any such proposed change. 

15.3 
       
     To change the user of any part of the Building for any other commercial purposes
(including but not limited to restaurant and/or retail purposes), renovate or refurbish the
shopping arcade (if any) or office area or any part or any area of the Building and to change,
alter, amend, vary, add to and re-locate 

- 29 -

the layout of the shopping arcade (if any) or office area or any part or any area of the Building
including but not limited to the external walls, entrance lobbies, staircases, landings, passages,
corridors, toilets, lifts and escalators and to carry our works to effect such change of user,
renovation, refurbishment, change, alteration, amendment, variation, addition and re-location, and
the Tenant shall not be entitled to object to the change of user, renovation, refurbishment,
change, alteration, amendment, variation, addition, re-location or any works as aforesaid and shall
have no right of action or claim for compensation whatsoever in connection with any matters arising
from this Clause. 

15.4 
       
     To make or cause to be made any structural or non-structural alteration or
improvement in or addition to entrances landings staircases driveways passages lobbies or any part
of the Building in common use, without incurring any liability to make any payment to the Tenant on
any account whatsoever. 

15.5 
       
     To make introduce, amend, adopt or abolish regulations as it may consider necessary
for the management and maintenance of the Building as a first class commercial Building. Such
regulations shall be supplementary to the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement and
shall not in any way derogate from such terms and conditions. In the event of conflict between such
regulations and the terms and conditions of this Agreement the terms and conditions of this
Agreement shall prevail. 

16  
       
      Meaning of  Tenant   

The expression  the Tenant  shall (where the context permits) mean and include the party or parties
specifically named and shall not include the executors and administrators of any such party or
where such party is a corporation any liquidator or receiver thereof. 

17  
       
      Responsible for acts of servant, etc.  

Any act default neglect or omissions of the agents contractors servants customers or visitors of
the Tenant shall be deemed to be the act default neglect or omission of the Tenant. 

18  
       
      Special condition(s)  

The parties hereto hereby agree that the terms or conditions or matters set out in the Sixth
Schedule hereto shall apply to this Agreement and shall be incorporated as an integral part of this
Agreement 

19  
       
      Governing law  

- 30 -

This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in all respects according to the laws of the Hong
Kong Special Administrative Region and the Tenant hereby irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive
jurisdiction of the courts of Hong Kong Special Administration Region. The submission to such
jurisdiction shall not limit the right of the Landlord to take proceedings in whatever jurisdiction
it may think fit, nor shall the
taking of proceedings in any jurisdiction preclude the taking of proceedings in any other
jurisdiction or jurisdictions, whether concurrently or not. 

- 31 -

THE FIRST SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO   

PART I  

LANDLORD

:

WIDE HARVEST INVESTMENT LIMITED
whose registered office is situate at 12th
Floor, Tsim Sha Tsui Centre, Salisbury Road,
Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong
( Landlord  which expression shall include
its successors and assigns). 

TENANT

:

EMAK HONG KONG LIMITED whose
registered office is situate at Suite Nos.
1-4, 18th Floor, Tower 6, China Hong Kong
City, 33 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon,
Hong Kong ( Tenant ). 

PART II    

Premises

:

SUITE NOS. 1, 2, 3 AND 4 on the 18TH
FLOOR of TOWER 6 of CHINA HONG KONG CITY
( the Building ) at No. 33 Canton Road,
Kowloon, Hong Kong (the said Suites for the
purpose of identification only are
delineated and coloured Pink on the Floor
Plan annexed hereto). 

PART III    

Term

:

For the term of three years
commencing on the 1st day of September 2005
and expiring on the 31st day of August 2008
(both days inclusive). 

PART IV    

User

:

Restricted to use by the Tenant as
office premises only and for no other
purpose whatsoever. 

PART V    

Deposit

:

The sum of HK$443,256.00 (equivalent
to three months  rental deposit and three
months  Management Fee and Air-Conditioning
Charge deposit and rates deposit) payable to
the Landlord on or before the signing of
this Agreement. 

- 32 -

\

THE SECOND SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO  

PART I   

PARTICULARS OF RENT  

(1) 
       
     The rent payable during the Term shall be HK$112,384.00 each calendar month payable in
advance on the first day of each calendar month (without any deduction or set-off). 

(2) 
       
     The rent is exclusive of rates, Government rent (if any), Management Fee and
Air-Conditioning Charge and other outgoings. 

(3) 
       
     Subject to the Tenant s due observance and performance of all the conditions contained in
this Agreement, the Tenant shall have the following rent free period(s): 

(i) 
       
     From 1st September 2005 to 30th September 2005 (both days inclusive); and 

(ii) 
       
     From 1st September 2006 to 30th September 2006 (both days inclusive). 

During any rent free period the Tenant shall continue to pay the Management Fee and
Air-Conditioning Charge and rates and Government rent (if any) and all other outgoings payable. 

PART II   

PARTICULARS OF CHARGES  

Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge:

HK$31,468.00 per calendar month
(subject to revision pursuant to
Clause 1.5 of Section III). 

- 33 -

THE THIRD SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO  

FITTING OUT REQUIREMENTS  

The Tenant shall :-

(a) 
       
     Provide electrical light fittings and a ceiling of non-combustible material approved by the
Landlord save that no combustible material will be permitted above the ceiling. If the Tenant
requires any extension or relocation of the sprinkler heads and/or the smoke detectors and other
fire services equipment installed by the Landlord, the cost of such
work will be paid by the Tenant. 

(b) 
       
     Provide vertical window blinds, tracks and fittings at the Tenant s expenses. 

(c) 
       
     Paint and decorate the interior of the Premises to the
satisfaction of the Landlord. 

(d) 
       
     Furnish and install floor fill and floor finishes. PVC tiles shall not be used unless
approved by the Landlord. 

(e) 
       
     With the relevant plan showing all the details including but not limited to the gauge of
wire, etc. duly approved in writing in advance by the Landlord, apply for the electricity
water meters from the relevant authorities, complete all electrical and mechanical installations
(heating, lighting system, ventilation, air-conditioning, sub-main cable, wiring, plumbing,
drainage and fire services) for the purpose of providing electrical mechanical and drainage
services to and within the Premises PROVIDED that the reinstatement of the ceiling or any part of
the common area damaged by or removed during the connecting of electricity to the Premises shall be
carried out by the Landlord s nominated contractor at the Tenant s expense. 

(f) 
       
     Furnish and install or arrange for the installation of telephones as well as other
Tenant s requirements within the Premises together with such meters as are necessary to measure the
Tenant s consumption thereof and to employ only the contractors nominated or approved by the
Landlord for such purposes. 

(g) 
       
     Furnish, install, support and connect all lighting fixtures, including lamps, switches and
wiring, save that in the case of support involving cutting into structure prior written approval of
the Landlord will be required and in all instances only the contractor designated by the Landlord
shall be used. 

(h) 
       
     Install such fire extinguishers or other means of fire-fighting equipment inside the Premises
as may be required from time to time by all relevant Ordinances and regulations of the Government
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

- 34 -

THE FOURTH SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO   

BUILDING RULES AND REGULATIONS  

(a) 
       
     Plumbing fixtures shall be used only for the purposes for which they were constructed.
No sweeping rubbish rags or other alien substance shall be deposited therein. All costs for making
good damages resulting from any misuse of the plumbing fixtures shall be born by the Tenant. 

(b) 
       
     Unless with the written consent of the Landlord, no tenant may drill into or in any way deface
any part of the Premises or the Building. 

(c) 
       
     Unless with the written consent of the Landlord, and such consent will not be usually granted,
no flagpoles or aerials shall be erected, and no flags may be flown from windows or elsewhere in or
upon the Building. 

(d) 
       
     The loading and unloading of goods shall be carried out in such manner and within such times
as from time to time are designated by the Landlord. 

(e) 
       
     Canvassing and peddling in the Building is prohibited. 

(f) 
       
     No tenant shall cause or permit any noise which is or may be a nuisance or annoyance to the
occupants of other portions of the Building. 

(g) 
       
     No animals or pets may be kept in the Premises or the Building. 

(h) 
       
     No security organization shall be employed by Tenant without the Landlord s prior consent. 

(i) 
       
     No film or movies shooting relating to the Building is permitted unless the prior written
consent from the Landlord is obtained. 

(j) 
       
     No person is allowed to sit, loiter or sleep on public passages, staircases or shopfronts. 

(k) 
       
     Save and except where the Premises are let for the express purpose of a Food or Beverage outlet
or restaurant, the preparation of food in the Premises is expressly prohibited save with the
Landlord s prior permission in writing. 

(l) 
       
     No person may place or leave any rubbish in the entrances or any of the staircases, corridors,
passages or landings of the Building used in common. 

(m) 
       
     No person may permit or suffer any sale by auction to be held upon the Premises. 

- 35 -

THE FIFTH SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO   

NORMAL AIR-CONDITIONING SUPPLY HOURS  

- 36 -

THE SIXTH SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO  

SPECIAL CONDITION(S)  

NIL 

- 37 -

AS WITNESS the hands of the parties hereto the day and year first above written.

SIGNED by

) 

Connie Kwong-Lin Hung

) 

of Sino Real Estate

) 

Agency Limited, a company duly

) 
       
     For and on behalf of 

authorised by the Board of

) 
       
     SINO REAL ESTATE AGENCY LTD. 

Directors or the Landlord

) 

for and on behalf of Sino Real Estate

) 

Agency Limited as agent for the

) 
       
      /s/
Connie Kwong-Lin Hung               

Landlord for the sole purpose of

) 
       
          Agent for the landlord for 

execution of this Agreement

) 
       
          the sole purpose of 

whose signature is verified by:-

) 
       
          execution of this Agreement 

/s/
Cheung Fong, Debbie 

Cheung Fong, Debbie

Solicitor, Hong Kong SAR

Messrs.
Baker   McKenzie

For and on behalf of  

SIGNED by Mr. Lee Siu Kau

) 
       
      EMAK HONG KONG LIMITED  

) 

for and on behalf of the Tenant

) 
       
      /s/
Mr. Lee Siu Kau                               

whose signature(s) is/are

) 
       
          Authorized Signatures 

verified by

/s/
Cynthia S.W.
Lee                     

Solicitor

Preston Gates   Ellis

Hong Kong SAR

R E C E V E D the day and year first above

) 

written of and from the Tenant the sum of

) 
       
          For and on behalf of 

HONG KONG DOLLARS FOUR HUNDRED

) 
       
          SINO REAL ESTATE AGENCY LTD. 

FORTY-THREE THOUSAND TWO

) 

HUNDRED AND FIFTY-SIX ONLY

) 

/s/
Connie Kwong-Lin Hung               

(of which a sum of HK$368,340.00 shall be

) 
       
               Agent for the landlord for 

transferred from the Tenancy Agreement

) 
       
               the sole purpose of 

dated 25th May 2004 made between the

) 
       
               execution of this Agreement 

Landlord as landlord and Equity Marketing

) 

Hong Kong, Ltd. as tenant of the Premises)

) 

being the above mentioned deposit to be paid

) 

by the Tenant to the Landlord.

) 
       
   HK$443,256.00 

SIGNATURE VERIFIED BY:-

/s/
Cheung Fong, Debbie 

Cheung Fong, Debbie

Solicitor, Hong Kong SAR

Messrs.
Baker   McKenzie

- 38 -

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.7>
 4
 v19133exv10w7.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.7

exv10w7 

Exhibit
10.7 

Dated the                      day of                      2005.

WIDE HARVEST INVESTMENT LIMITED 

and

EMAK HONG KONG LIMITED

TENANCY
AGREEMENT

of

Suite Nos. 5B and 6A on the 19th Floor of Tower  6,  
China Hong Kong City, China Ferry Terminal, 
Canton Road, Kowloon.

BAKER
  McKENZIE 
Solicitors   Notaries 
14th Floor 
Hutchison House 
Harcourt Road Central 
Hong Kong

THIS AGREEMENT  is dated the          day of                    2005

BETWEEN the parties described as the Landlord and the Tenant respectively in Part I of the First
Schedule

WHEREBY IT IS AGREED as follows:

SECTION I 
INTERPRETATION AND AGREEMENT 

1.1  
       
      Interpretation  

In this Agreement the expressions set out in the Schedules hereto shall where the context so
admits have the meanings respectively ascribed to them therein. 

1.2  
       
      Joint and several liability  

In this Agreement where the context so permits or requires words importing the singular
number include the plural number and vice versa and words importing a gender include all
other genders and where there are two or more persons included in the expression  the
Tenant  covenants expressed to be made by the Tenant shall be deemed to be made by such
persons jointly and severally. 

1.3  
       
      Headings and index  

The headings and covering pages are intended for guidance only and do not form part of
this Agreement nor shall any of the provisions of this Agreement be construed or interpreted
by reference thereto or in any way affected or limited thereby. 

2  
       
      Premises Term and Rent  

The Landlord shall let and the Tenant shall take, in the state and condition as it is,
 ALL THAT  the premises more particularly described and set out in Part II of the First
Schedule ( Premises ) TOGETHER with the use in common with the Landlord and all others having
the like right of the entrances, staircases, landings, lavatories, corridors and passages in
the Building as defined in Part II of the First Schedule insofar as the same are necessary
for the proper use and enjoyment of the Premises  AND TOGETHER  with the use in common with
others having the like right of the lifts escalators and central air-conditioning service
serving the Premises whenever the same shall be operating for the term set out in Part III of
the First Schedule ( Term )  YIELDING AND PAYING  therefor throughout the Term such rent,
Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge (which are unless the
context otherwise requires
collectively included in the term  Rent ) 

- 1 -

and other charges as are from time to time payable in advance and in accordance with
the provisions set out in the Second Schedule. 

SECTION II 
DEPOSIT 

1.1 
       
     The Tenant shall on the signing hereof deposit with the
Landlord the sum or sums
specified in Part V of the First Schedule to secure the due observance and performance
by the Tenant of the covenants, agreements, stipulations, terms and conditions herein
contained and on the part of the Tenant to be observed and performed. 

1.2 
       
     The deposit shall be retained by the Landlord throughout the Term (SUBJECT to the
Landlord s right to forfeit the deposit under clause 1 of Section IX hereof) without
interest and the Tenant hereby specifically authorises the Landlord (but without
prejudice to any other right or remedy) to apply the deposit in payment of the amount of
any rent, rates, Government rent (if any), Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge
and other charges payable hereunder by the Tenant and any costs expenses loss or damage
sustained by the Landlord as the result of any non-observance or non-performance by the
Tenant of any of the covenants, agreements, stipulations, obligations or conditions. 

1.3 
       
     In the event of any deduction being made by the Landlord from the deposit the
Tenant shall, as a condition precedent to the continuation of the tenancy, forthwith on
demand by the Landlord make a further deposit (to be held by the Landlord in manner as
aforesaid) equal to the amount so deducted and failure by the Tenant so to do shall
entitle the Landlord to determine this Agreement and forthwith to re-enter upon the
Premises in which event the deposit shall be forfeited to the Landlord. 

2  
       
      Refund of deposit  

Subject as aforesaid the deposit shall be refunded to the Tenant by the Landlord without
interest within forty five (45) days after the expiration or sooner determination of this
Agreement and delivery of vacant possession to the Landlord or after settlement of the last
outstanding claim by the Landlord against the Tenant for any arrears of rent, rates,
Government rent (if any), Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge and other charges and
for any breach non-observance or non-performance of any of the covenants agreements
stipulations terms and conditions herein contained and on the part of the Tenant to be
observed or performed whichever is the later. 

- 2 -

3  
       
      Increase in deposit  

If there shall for whatever reason be any increase in the rent and/or Management Fee
and Air-Conditioning Charge and/or rates and Government rent (if any) during the Term, the
Tenant shall upon such increase becoming applicable pay to the Landlord as a condition
precedent to the continuation of the tenancy by way of increase in the said deposit a sum
proportional to the said increase to restore the ratio of deposit to the rent and Management
Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge and rates and Government rent (if any) to that previously
subsisting. 

4  
       
      Transfer of deposit  

In the event that the Premises and/or this Agreement shall be assigned by the Landlord to
any person(s), the Landlord shall be entitled as incidental to such assignment to transfer
directly the Deposit or the balance thereof to the assignee, after making any deduction in
manner aforesaid (whether with or without the consent of the Tenant) PROVIDED that the
assignee shall undertake with the Tenant to refund such deposit or balance thereof in
accordance with the provisions hereof, whereupon the Landlord shall be released from any and
all further obligations to the Tenant in respect of the said Deposit, and the Tenant shall
thereafter have no claim whatsoever against the Landlord in respect thereof. The Tenant
shall if required by the Landlord (but not at the cost of the Tenant) enter into, sign, and
execute such agreements, deeds or documents in such form and substance to the satisfaction
of the Landlord, to release the Landlord from its obligation in respect of the refund of the
deposit or balance thereof. In the event of there being a bank guarantee the Tenant will
upon request provide a substitute guarantee in favour of the assignee in exchange for that
provided to the Landlord. 

SECTION III 
TENANT S OBLIGATIONS 

The Tenant hereby agrees with the Landlord as follows:-

1.  
       
      Rent and Management Fee, etc.  

1.1 
       
     To pay the rent as set out in Part I of the Second Schedule in advance in
respect of the Premises and clear of all deductions on the first day of each calendar
month, the first and last of such payments to be apportioned according to the number of
days in the month included in the Term. 

1.2 
       
     To pay and discharge at the same time and in the same manner as the rent is
payable the Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge and any other service and
maintenance charges payable by the owner or occupier of the Premises or (as the case
may be) the Landlord including (without limitation) such charges as may be demanded
from time to time by the Building Manager or 

- 3 -

Management Committee or similar Management Body for the time being of the Building
(if any) and/or those charges payable in respect of the Premises pursuant to or by
virtue of the Deed of Mutual Covenant and Management Agreement relating to the
Building, and subject to revision in accordance with Clause 1.5 of Section III, the
Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge payable at the Commencement of the Term
is set out in Part II of the Second Schedule. 

1.3 
       
     If the day on which the rent, the Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge or
additional outgoings or other payments fall due under this Agreement is a public
holiday, the relevant payment of rent, Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge or
additional outgoings or otherwise shall be due and payable on the preceding business
day. For Ihe avoidance of doubt,  business day  means a day on which banks are
ordinarily open for business in Hong Kong. 

1.4 
       
     If payment is made by the Tenant by cheque, such cheque must be good for payment
and reach the office of the Landlord before 3:30 p.m. in the afternoon if such payment
is made on any weekday except Saturday, and before 11:30 a.m. if such payment is made on
a Saturday, failing which the payment shall be deemed to have been paid by the Tenant on
the following business day, and the Tenant shall be deemed to have defaulted in making
due payment. 

1.5 
       
     If at any time and from time to time during the Term the operating cost relative
to the supply of the air-conditioning and/or the costs and expenses for the provision of
management services to the Building and/or the Premises shall have risen over the costs
prevailing at the commencement of the Term the Landlord shall be entitled to serve one
(1) month s notice in writing upon the Tenant to increase the charges or any of them by
appropriate amount(s) and thereafter such increased charges shall prevail. The
Landlord s assessments of the appropriate increase shall be conclusive and binding on
the Tenant. 

1.6 
       
     If the Tenant should require air-conditioning outside the normal air-conditioning
supply hours set out in the Fifth Schedule, subject to the Tenant s giving to the
Landlord not less than 24 hours prior notice in writing, additional air-conditioning
will normally be provided on condition that the additional air-conditioning shall be
applied in units of one hour and at least two hours on each occasion at such rate as may
be charged by the Landlord from time to time. 

2  
       
      Rates and Government Rent (if any)  

2.1 
       
     To pay and discharge punctually during the Term all rates, Government rent
(if any), taxes, assessments, duties, charges, impositions and outgoings of an 

- 4 -

annual or recurring nature whatsoever now or hereafter to be assessed imposed or
charged on the Premises or upon the owner or occupier in respect of the Premises
or any part thereof by the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative
Region or other lawful authority (Property Tax alone excepted) on the
1 st  day of
the months of January, April, July and October. 

2.2 
       
     Without prejudice to the generality of clause 2.1, the Tenant shall pay to the
Landlord all rates and Government rent (if any) imposed on the Premises by the
Government and as and when demanded by the Landlord, who shall settle the same with the
Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

2.3 
       
     In the event of the Premises not yet having been assessed to rates and/or the
Government rent (if any), the Tenant shall pay to the Landlord a sum (which shall be
computed on the basis of the prevailing percentages of the rateable value of the
Premises for rates and/or the Government rent (if any) for the corresponding quarter) as
shall be required by the Landlord as a deposit by way of security for the due payment of
rates and/or Government rent (if any) subject to adjustment on actual rates and/or the
Government rent (if any) assessment being received by the Landlord from the Government
of Hong Kong Administrative Special Region. 

3  
       
      Water         electricity charges  

To pay and discharge punctually during the Term all charges (including all deposits) in
respect of water, electric light, power and telephones as may be shown by the separate
meter or meters installed upon the Premises or by accounts rendered to the Tenant. 

4  
       
      User  

To use the Premises only for the purposes set out in Part IV of the First Schedule hereto
and for no other purpose whatsoever. 

5  
       
      Entry by Landlord  

5.1 
       
     To permit the Landlord and its agents with or without workmen and all persons
authorised by it and with or without appliances at all reasonable times upon prior
notice to enter upon the Premises and if necessary, to remain at the Premises: 

(a) 
       
     to take inventories of fixtures and fittings therein and
to cany out any maintenance works or repairs to the Landlord s
installations inside the Premises which are in the opinion of the Landlord
necessary and proper to be done; 

- 5 -

(b) 
       
     to examine the state and condition thereof and of the fixtures and
fittings therein, including but not limited to the central air-conditioning
unit; 

(c) 
       
     to execute any works of renewal cleaning alteration or repair
to any adjacent or neighbouring premises or to the Building without any claim
for damages or indemnity against the Landlord; and 

(d) 
       
     to do such work as may be deemed necessary to preserve the
exterior walls or any part of the structure of the Building from injury or
damage from any excavation or other building works as may be made or
authorised in the vicinity of the Building 

and the Tenant shall deposit with the Landlord a key or key(s) to the Premises to
enable the Landlord to enter into the Premises in the event of emergency, and
unless key(s) are so deposited with the Landlord, in the event of emergency the
Landlord or its agents may without notice enter upon the Premises forcibly, and
the Tenant shall at its own expense reinstate the entrance door to the Premises to
its original state and condition without any claim for damages or indemnity
against the Landlord. 

5.2 
       
     To permit the Landlord and all persons authorised by it at all reasonable times
to show the Premises to prospective tenants during the last three months of the Term or
to prospective purchasers at any time during the Term. 

6  
       
      Repairs  

Upon receipt of notice from the Landlord to forthwith make good all defects and wants of
repair for which the Tenant is responsible hereunder and if the Tenant should not within
seven (7) days after the service of such notice proceed diligently with the making good of
all defects and the carrying out of such repair then to permit the Landlord to enter upon
the Premises and to make good the said defects and carry out such repair. The costs thereof
shall be paid by the Tenant and be a debt due from the Tenant to the Landlord and be
forthwith recoverable by action. 

7  
       
      Close windows  

To keep all windows and doors of the Premises closed and to permit the Landlord or its
servants and agents and others from time to time during the Term to enter upon the Premises
for the purpose of closing any doors or windows. 

8  
       
      Notify Landlord of damage  

To notify the Landlord or its agent of any accidents to or defects in the water pipes
electrical wires or fittings fixtures or other facilities provided by the Landlord within
the 

- 6 -

Premises whether or not the Tenant is liable hereunder for the repair of the same
forthwith upon the Tenant s becoming aware (whether actually or constructively) of
the same arising. 

9  
       
      Interior fitting out  

9.1 
       
     To fit out the interior of the Premises at the Tenant s expense in accordance with the
requirements and provisions set out in the Third Schedule. 

9.2 
       
     Fitting out works in the Premises to be carried out by the Tenant
shall be carried out in accordance with plans drawings and specifications as
that have been first submitted under clause 10 below and have been approved in
writing by the Landlord. Such works shall be carried out in a good and proper
workmanlike fashion with good quality materials and with all necessary
Government licences permits authorities permissions and consents. 

9.3 
       
     Upon completion of the fitting out work to the satisfaction of the
Landlord, the Tenant shall throughout the Term maintain the Premises in good
repair and condition to the satisfaction of the Landlord. The Tenant will not
cause or permit to be made any alteration variation or addition to the approved
interior design or layout of the Premises and may not commence any further
fitting out works upon the Premises without the prior written consent of the
Landlord. Any fitting out of the Premises adjoining a common area shall be of a
style nature and standard as may be required by the Landlord and the work shall
be carried out at the cost of the Tenant. In carrying out any approved work the
Tenant shall obey and cause his servants agents contractors and workmen to obey
and comply with all instructions and directions prescribed by the Landlord, the
Landlord s agent, or the Building Manager of the Building. 

9.4 
       
     To employ at the Tenant s expense only such contractors as are
nominated by the Landlord from time to time for the purpose of designing and
carrying out and installing all the necessary building services and builders 
work as hereinafter defined in the Premises in manner as prescribed by the
Landlord or its nominated contractors and in particular to observe and comply
with the conditions and requirements as stated in the Tenant s Fitting-Out
Guide. The expression  building services , means all mechanical and electrical
engineering work and arrangements relating to the Premises including but not
confined to electrical, plumbing, building automation and fire fighting
installations. The expression  builders  work  shall mean all renovation works
not specified under  building services  including but not confined to light
tracks, light troughs and graphics panels. 

9.5 
       
     To pay a vetting charge to the Building Manager for its checking of
the fitting out plans and inspection of the fitting-out works, and pay the sum
demanded by 

- 7 -

the Building Manager as a refundable deposit as security for any damage to the
Building caused as a result of the Tenant s works and the removal of any debris. 

10  
       
      Submission of information  

10.1 
       
     The Tenant shall furnish to the Landlord full details of all specifications, prints,
copies, and drawings information or materials as and when required by the
Landlord and shall cause the same to be delivered to the Landlord s office. 

10.2 
       
     The Tenant shall provide the Landlord with the following:- 

(a) 
       
     Three sets of elevations to describe the space with all electric outlets. 

(b) 
       
     Three copies of the reflected ceiling plan with a schedule
indicating the voltage, type, wattage, quantity and location of outlets for
all light fittings and air-conditioning. 

(c) 
       
     Three copies of the floor plan with partitions. 

(d) 
       
     Three copies of the office layout prints of all case work
including the location of all sockets, switches, fuse box, telephone points,
size, weight and location of the safe, if any. 

10.3 
       
     Prior to the commencement of any works, the Tenant shall furnish the Landlord
with the following information :- 

(a) 
       
     The names and address(es) of the appointed designer/agent for
the Premises, the general contractor(s) to be engaged in the construction of
the Tenant s work and the Tenant s authorised agent/representative. 

(b) 
       
     The proposed commencement date of the interior decoration
works and the estimated date of completion thereof, and the projected date of
opening of the Premises for business. 

(c) 
       
     Office layout drawings in triplicate for the Landlord s written approval. 

11  
       
      Inspection by Landlord  

To permit the inspection of all Tenant s work by the Landlord, the Landlord s Architect and
Landlord s General Contractor from time to time during the period in which Tenant s work
aforesaid is being performed. 

- 8 -

12  
       
      Reimbursement to Landlord  

The Landlord shall have the right to perform on behalf of and for the account of
the Tenant, subject to reimbursement by the Tenant, any of the Tenant s work which
the Landlord determines shall be so performed. Such work shall be limited to work
which the Landlord deems necessary to be done on an emergency basis, work caused by
the
Tenant s, fault, and work, which pertains to structural components, the general, utility
systems for the Building and the erection of temporary safety barricades and
temporary signs during construction. 

13  
       
      Good repair of interior  

To keep all the interior of the Premises, the flooring and interior plaster or
other finishing material or rendering to walls floors and ceilings, and the
Landlord s fixtures and additions including the central air-conditioning unit, doors,
window, fan coil units, air ductings, electrical installation wiring piping and
fittings for light, power and water in good clean, tenantable and proper repair and
condition and properly preserved and painted as may be appropriate when from time to
time required and to so maintain the same throughout the Term at the expense of the
Tenant and deliver up the same to the Landlord at the expiration or sooner
determination of the Term in such repair and the like condition (fair wear and tear
excepted) PROVIDED that the Tenant shall reimburse to me Landlord the cost of
repairing or replacing any air-conditioning units or other part of the
air-conditioning apparatus or installation within the Premises which is damaged or
rendered defective due to the act or neglect of the Tenant. 

14  
       
      Fire fighting and security system  

To ensure at all times that all fire alarms, fire fighting equipment, roller
shutters and other equipment for security purposes provided by the Landlord are not
disrupted, interrupted, damaged or caused to be defective through the act, default
or neglect of the Tenant, his servants, agents, licensees or customers. The Tenant
may not under any circumstances cover up any hose-reel, break-glass unit or alarm
bell. 

15  
       
      Electrical testing  

To test all circuits for shorts and earthing and to balance loads on all panels. 

16  
       
      Passage of wires pipes cables etc  

The Tenant agrees that permanent utility lines may pass through the ceiling
cavity of the Premises to service other premises and areas in the Building. 

- 9 -

17  
       
      Emergency lighting  

To provide battery operated type emergency lighting and exit signs in locations within the
Premises as required by any codes and regulations, and as deemed necessary by the Landlord. 

18  
       
      Earthing  

To provide earthing within the Premises as required by any codes and regulations from time
to time in force. 

19  
       
      Statutes, codes         ordinances  

To comply with all applicable statutes, codes, ordinances and other regulations for all
work performed by or on behalf of the Tenant within the Premises and the Landlord s or the
Landlord s agent s approval of plans, specifications, calculations or otherwise of the
Tenant s work shall not constitute any implication, representation or certification by the
Landlord that the works are in compliance with said statutes, codes, ordinances, and other
regulations. 

20  
       
      Rules and regulations made by the Building Manager  

To observe faithfully and comply strictly with the Building rules and regulations as
set out in the Fourth Schedule hereto and such other rules and regulations as the Landlord
or the Landlord s agents or the Building Manager of the Building may from time to time
prescribe for the proper management and maintenance of the Premises and the Building. Notice
of any additional rules or regulations shall be given in such manner as the Landlord or the
Building Manager may elect. Such rules and regulations shall be binding upon the Tenant and
shall have the same force and effect as if set out in the body of this Agreement. 

21  
       
      First class office premises  

To fit out, use, manage and otherwise maintain the Premises so as not to prejudice the
goodwill and reputation of the Building as first class office premises. 

22  
       
      Protection from typhoon  

To take all reasonable precautions to protect the interior of the Premises against
damage by storm or typhoon or the like threats and in particular to ensure any exterior
doors and windows are securely fastened upon the threat of such adverse weather conditions. 

- 10 -

23  
       
      Third party insurance  

To effect and maintain throughout the Term insurance cover in respect of the
Tenant s obligations under Section V with a reputable insurance company to the
satisfaction of the Landlord and to produce to the Landlord, as and when so
required by the Landlord, the
policy of such insurance together with the receipt for the last payment of premium and a certificate from the relevant insurance company that the policy is fully paid up
and in all respects valid and subsisting, in default of which the Landlord shall be
entitled (but not obliged) at the Tenant s expense to effect such insurance cover.
The policy of such insurance shall be in the name of the Tenant and endorsed to
show the interest of the Landlord in the Premises and the Building and shall be in
such amount as the Landlord may from time to time stipulate and shall contain a
clause to the effect that the insurance cover thereby effected and the terms and
conditions thereof shall not be cancelled modified or restricted without the prior
written consent of the Landlord. 

24  
       
      Insurance of Contents  

To be wholly responsible for any loss or damage to property within the Premises
including without limitation all furniture fixtures fittings goods chattels samples
personal effects contents and to effect with a reputable insurance company adequate
insurance cover for the same in their full replacement value against all risks
including without limitation those risks perils or under circumstances for which
the Landlord s liability is expressly or impliedly excluded
under this Agreement.
The Tenant undertakes to produce and make available to the Landlord as and when so
required by the Landlord copies of the policy of such insurance together with the
receipt for the last payment of premium and a certificate from the relevant
insurance company that the policy is fully paid up and in all respects valid and
subsisting. 

25  
       
      Cleaning Service  

To keep the Premises including all windows and lights at all times in a clean and
sanitary state and condition. No other cleaning contractors for the internal
cleaning of the Premises shall be employed by the Tenant without the Landlord s or
the Manager s prior written consent. 

26  
       
      Cleaning drains, etc.  

In the event of the pipes, drains, ducts, sanitary or plumbing apparatus of the
Building becoming choked or stopped up owing to the careless or improper use by
the Tenant its servants agents licensees invitees the Tenant shall pay to the
Landlord the costs incurred in cleaning and clearing the same from obstruction. 

- 11 -

27  
       
      Replacement of broken windows  

To replace or to reimburse the Landlord for the cost of replacing any broken or damaged
windows and/or glass panels and fixtures within and/or encompassing the Premises whether the
same be broken or damaged by the negligence of the Tenant or owing to circumstances beyond
the control of the Tenant. 

28  
       
      To make good damage  

To take good care of the fixtures fittings including but not limited to the central
air-conditioning unit and other articles provided by the Landlord within the Premises and to
make good and pay for all damage caused by the Tenant its servants or licensees to any of
them. The Tenant may not remove any of them from the Premises and shall deliver up the same
to the Landlord at the expiration or sooner determination of the tenancy in good condition. 

29  
       
      Maintenance of sanitary and water apparatus  

To keep the sanitary and water apparatus (if any) used exclusively by the Tenant and
his servants agents licensees workmen or visitors in good, clean and tenantable repair and
condition (fair wear and tear excepted) to the satisfaction of the Landlord and in
accordance with the Regulations or bye-laws of all Public Health and other Government
Authorities concerned or to use in common with others the lavatories and washing
accommodations and facilities provided by the Landlord in the Building and not to permit or
suffer the same to be used in any improper manner or whereby the soil or waste pipes may
become impeded or blocked and at all times to indemnify the Landlord against liability for
damage by the escape of water thereby caused to the properties or effects of the tenants or
occupiers of the other part of the Building. 

30  
       
      Vermin  

To take all due precautions to prevent the Premises from becoming infested with
insects or vermin. The Tenant shall employ at its own expense such pest extermination
contractors as the Landlord may require and at such intervals as the Landlord may direct.
Without prejudice to the aforesaid, in the event of the Premises becoming so infested, the
Tenant shall pay for the cost of extermination or deinfestation as arranged or approved by
the Landlord and the selected exterminators shall be given full access to the Premises for
such purpose. 

- 12 -

SECTION IV 
RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS 

1  
       
      Breach of Government Lease  

Not to do or cause to be done or suffer or permit any act deed matter or thing whatsoever
which constitutes a breach of any of the terms and conditions in the Government Lease or
Conditions under which the Premises are held or in contravention of any of ordinances
regulations by-laws rules notices requirements or restrictions or prohibitions imposed by any
appropriate government authority in connection with the Premises or any trade that is now or
may hereafter be declared an offensive trade by any government authority. 

2  
       
      Breach of Deed of Mutual Covenant, etc.  

Not to do or cause to be done or suffer or permit any act deed matter or thing whatsoever
which shall or may amount to a breach of the covenants terms and provisions of the Deed of
Mutual Covenant and Management Agreement (if any) relating to the Building so far as they
relate to the occupation and use of the Premises and to indemnify the Landlord against all
and any breach non-observance or non-performance thereof. 

3  
       
      Breach of insurance policy  

Not to do or permit or suffer to be done any act deed matter or thing whatsoever whereby the
insurance on the Building against loss or damage by fire and/or other insurable perils
and/or claims by third parties for the time being in force may be rendered void or voidable
or whereby the premium thereon may be increased Provided that if as the result of any act
deed matter or thing done permitted or suffered by the Tenant the premium on any such policy
of insurance shall be increased the Landlord shall be entitled without prejudice to any
other remedy hereunder to recover from the Tenant the amount of any such increase. 

4  
       
      Subletting and assigning  

Not to assign underlet transfer licence share or otherwise part with the possession of the
Premises or any part thereof either by way of subletting lending sharing or other means
whereby any organization company firm or person or persons not a party to this Agreement
obtains the use or possession of the Premises or any part thereof, irrespective of whether
any rental or other consideration is given therefor. This tenancy is personal to the Tenant
named in this Agreement and without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing the
following acts and events shall, unless previously approved in writing by the Landlord, be
deemed to be breaches of this clause:- 

4.1 
       
     In the case of a tenant which is a partnership, the taking in of one or more new
partners whether on the death or retirement of an existing partner or otherwise. 

- 13 -

4.2 
       
     In the case of a tenant who is an individual (including a sole surviving
partner of a partnership tenant) the death insanity or disability of that individual
to the intent that no right to use possess occupy or enjoy the Premises or any part
thereof shall vest in the executors administrators personal representatives next of
kin trustee or committee of any such individual. 

4.3 
       
     In the case of a tenant which is a corporation any take-over, reconstruction
amalgamation, merger, voluntary liquidation or change in the person or persons who owns
or own a majority of its voting shares or who otherwise has or have effective control
thereof. 

4.4 
       
     The giving by the Tenant of a Power of Attorney or similar authority whereby the
donee of the Power obtains the right to use possess occupy or enjoy the Premises or any
part thereof or does in fact use possess occupy or enjoy the same. 

4.5 
       
     The change of the Tenant s business name without the previous written consent of
the Landlord and in connection with any application for consent under this provision,
the Landlord may require the Tenant to produce such evidence as the Landlord may think
fit to show that no breach of the provisions of this Clause 4 has taken place or is
about to take place. 

5  
       
      Sale by auction  

Not to permit or suffer to be held upon the Premises any sale by auction or sale of a
similar nature upon the Premises. 

6  
       
      Alterations, additions, etc.  

6.1 
       
     Not to make or permit any alterations or additions (whether or not of a structural
nature) to or in the Premises or any part thereof either internally or externally or to
any fixtures or fittings or electrical wiring or electrical/mechanical installations or
fire-prevention system or air-conditioning system or plumbing and drainage system or
building services system or to any item therein nor to pull down, alter or remove any
portions of the doors windows partitions or fittings of the Premises without the prior
written consent of the Landlord. 

6.2 
       
     Not to change or in any way to alter the appearance of the standard entrance
doors provided by the Landlord for access to and egress from the Premises without having
first obtained the written consent of the Landlord therefor. 

6.3 
       
     Not to install additional locks bolts or additional fittings to the entrance
doors of the Premises or in any way to cut or alter the same without having first
obtained 

- 14 -

the written consent of the Landlord therefor. 

6.4 
       
     Not to install set up or affix or permit to be installed set up affixed
in or upon the Premises or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever any engine
machinery or mechanical device or plant or air-conditioning or heating system. 

7  
       
      Disfigure structures, fixtures, etc.  

Not to damage or disfigure any structures fixtures, canopies decorations,
installations outside the Premises including central air-conditioning unit, mail chutes,
refuse chutes, halls, passages, drainage walls, walls, partitions, ceilings, and to pay
on demand to the Landlord the costs and expenses incurred by the Landlord in repairing
or making good such damage or cleaning the same. 

8  
       
      Installation in or damage to common areas  

Not to lay, install, affix or attach any wiring, cables or other article or thing
whatsoever in or upon any areas or parts of the Building in common use or in any place
which is not hereby exclusively let to the Tenant nor to damage injure or deface any
part of the fabric or walls or roof of the Building or of the common areas stairs and
lifts and other facilities of the Building. 

9  
       
      Signs  

9.1 
       
     Not to affix, erect, attach, exhibit, display or permit or suffer so to be
done upon any part within or on the exterior or at the show windows (if any) of the
Premises or to or through any windows thereof any writing sign decoration signboard
notice advertisement placard neon light or other device (whether illuminated or not)
which may be visible from outside the Premises except that the name of the Tenant
(or any new name of the Tenant as approved by the Landlord under Clause 4 of Section
IV) and the nature of the trade or business carried out thereon may be displayed on
the Directory Boards provided by the Landlord but only in such form and place and
character as shall be first approved by the Landlord, and the costs thereof shall be
borne by the Tenant solely. 

9.2 
       
     The Landlord or its authorised agents shall have the right and at the
cost and expense of the Tenant to remove, relocate and to improve the arrangement of
any unauthorised writing, sign, decoration signboard notice advertisement placard
neon light or device affixed or put up or displayed without the proper approval of
the Landlord or its agents. 

10  
       
      Floor loading capacity  

Not to place any load upon any floor of the Premises in excess of the loading
capacity for 

- 15 -

which the floor is designed. The Landlord reserves the right to prescribe the weight and
position of all safes and any heavy articles which must be placed so as to distribute the
weight. Business machines and mechanical equipment authorised by the Landlord shall be
placed and maintained by the Tenant at the Tenant s expense in settings sufficient in the
Landlord s judgement to absorb and prevent vibration noise and annoyance to occupiers of the
other portions of the Building. 

11  
       
      Freight lift carrying capacity  

Not to place any heavy machinery goods raw materials or articles in any freight lift
in excess of the permitted carrying capacity for which the lift is designed. 

12  
       
      Passenger lift  

Not to use or permit to be used the passenger lifts of the Building for the purpose of
carrying any furniture or goods or heavy articles (the Landlord having provided freight lifts
for such purpose), and to observe the regulations affecting the use of all lifts as indicated
therein or intimated by the Landlord or the Building Manager of the Building or its agents
from time to time. 

13  
       
      Nuisance  

Not to do or permit to be done in or upon the Premises or any part thereof anything
which may be or become a nuisance or cause annoyance damage or disturbance to the Landlord
or to any of the tenants or occupiers of any other portion of the Building or of other
property in the neighbourhood or in any way affect the reputation of the Building or be
contrary to the laws or regulations of Hong Kong. 

14  
       
      Noise  

Not to do or permit or suffer to be done upon the Premises or any part thereof any
music noise (including sound produced by broadcasting from television, radio and any
apparatus or instrument capable of producing or reproducing music and sound) or other act
matter or thing whatsoever which may be or become a nuisance or annoyance, or cause damage
or disturbance to the Landlord or the owners tenants lessees or occupiers of any adjoining
or neighbouring premises. 

15  
       
      Combustible or dangerous goods  

Not to keep or store or permit to be kept or stored in or upon the Premises any
arms, ammunition, gun-powder, salt-petre, kerosene or other explosive or inflammable
dangerous or prohibited goods or materials (as defined in the Dangerous Goods Ordinance
(Cap.295) or any legislation replacing the same or any orders or regulations made
thereunder). 

- 16 -

16  
       
      Storage of goods  

Not to use the Premises or any part thereof for the purposes of the manufacture of goods and
merchandise or for the storage of excessive amount of goods or merchandise other than in
quantities consistent with the nature and smooth running of the Tenant s business. 

17  
       
      Animals  

Not to keep any birds or livestock of any description or any noxious goods or articles on
the Premises. 

18  
       
      Illegal or immoral purposes  

Not to use or permit or suffer the Premises to be used or any part thereof for the purpose
of gambling in contravention to the Gambling Ordinance or for any illegal or immoral
purpose. 

19  
       
      Preparation of food  

Not without the prior written consent of the Landlord to prepare or permit or suffer to be
prepared any food in the Premises and not to permit or suffer any unusual or objectionable
odours to be produced upon or to permeate from the Premises. 

20  
       
      Sleeping or domestic use  

Not without the Landlord s prior permission in writing,
permit any person to remain in the
Premises overnight. Such permission if given shall only be given in order to enable the
Tenant to post watchmen to look after the contents of the Premises, which shall not be used
as sleeping quarters or as domestic premises within the meaning of the Landlord and Tenant
(Consolidation) Ordinance for the time being in force. 

21  
       
      Obstructions in common areas  

Not to encumber obstruct or permit to be encumbered or obstructed with any boxes, packaging,
merchandise, rubbish or other articles or obstructions of any kind or nature at any of the
entrances, exits, staircases, landings, passages, lifts, escalators, lobbies or other parts
of the Building not included in the Premises. In addition to any other remedies which the
Landlord may have hereunder, the Landlord, its servants or agents may without any prior
notice to the Tenant remove any such obstruction and dispose of the same as they may think
fit without incurring any liability therefor and the Tenant shall on demand pay to the
Landlord all costs and expenses incurred in such removal. 

- 17 -

22  
       
      Movement of heavy machinery  

Not to move any safe heavy machinery equipment and freight bulky matter or fixtures in
and out of the Building without first obtaining the Landlord s written consent. The Tenant
shall keep the Landlord indemnified against all damages sustained by any person or property
and for any damages or monies paid out by the Landlord in settlement of any claim or
judgements as well as legal costs incurred in connection therewith and all costs incurred in
repairing any damage to the Building or its appurtenances resulting from movement of any
heavy machinery equipment freight bulky matter or fixtures. Upon the Tenant requiring to move
to and from the Premises any such items, the Tenant hereby undertakes at all times to use the
service lifts provided by Landlord for such purposes and to notify Landlord and arrange with
the Landlord a suitable time for such deliveries or removals to be effected. 

23  
       
      No incense to be burnt  

Not to burn or permit to be burnt incense in the Premises or in any part of the
Building. 

24  
       
      Fire risk  

Not to do or permit any act or thing to be done which is likely to cause any fire risk
or other hazard in the Building. 

25  
       
      No loading in parking area  

Not to obstruct or otherwise use nor permit any employee agent or licencee of the
Tenant to obstruct or otherwise use these areas of the Building allocated to the parking or
movement of or access for vehicles or designated as loading/unloading areas otherwise than
in accordance with the regulations from time to time made by the Landlord. 

26  
       
      Use of building name  

Not without the previous written consent of the Landlord to use or permit to be used
the name/logo or any part of the name/logo of the Landlord or of the Building or any
picture representation or likeness of the whole or any part of such name/logo or of the
Building or of the Premises in connection with the business or operations of the Tenant or
for any purpose whatsoever other than to indicate the address and place of business of the
Tenant. 

27  
       
      Telephone service  

Not without the Landlord s prior written consent to use any telephone service provider
other than that designated or approved by the Landlord. 

- 18 -

SECTION V 
INDEMNITIES 

1  
       
      Indemnify Landlord  

The Tenant shall indemnify the Landlord against all liabilities, claims, demands, actions,
proceedings, damages, losses, costs and expenses arising directly indirectly from or
incidental to the use or occupation of the Premises, the execution of alterations,
additions or repairs to the Premises, any non-compliance by the Tenant with its obligations
under this Agreement, or any other act, default, neglect or omission by the Tenant, its
employees, contractors, servants, agents, licenses, visitors or invitees. 

2  
       
      Indemnity against loss/damage from interior  

Without prejudice to Clause 1 of Section V, the Tenant shall be wholly responsible for
any loss damage or injury caused to any person or property caused directly or indirectly
through the want of repair of the interior of the Premises or the defective or damaged
condition of any part of interior of the Premises or of any of the fixtures and fittings
therein or in any way owing to the spread of fire or smoke or the overflow of water from
the Premises or any part thereof. 

3  
       
      Indemnity against Overflow of Water  

To be wholly responsible for any loss or damage caused to any person or property
caused by or through or in any way owing to the escape or overflow of water from the
Premises and to make good the same by payment or otherwise and to indemnify the Landlord
against all costs claims demands actions and legal proceedings whatsoever made upon the
Landlord by any person in respect of such loss damage or injury and costs and expenses
incidental thereto. 

SECTION VI 
LANDLORD S OBLIGATIONS 

The Landlord hereby agrees with the Tenant as follows:-

1  
       
      Quiet enjoyment  

To permit the Tenant (duly paying the rent rates Government rent (if any) Management Fee
and Air-Conditioning Charge and observing and performing the terms and conditions herein
contained) to have quiet possession and enjoyment of the Premises during the Term without
any interruption by the Landlord or any person or persons lawfully claiming through under
or in trust for the Landlord. 

- 19 -

2  
       
      Roof and main structure, etc.  

To use its best endeavours or arrange for the building manager to use its best endeavours to
amend and repair such defects in the roof, main electricity supply cables, main drain pipes,
main walls and exterior windows frames of the Building and the lifts and the central
air-conditioning system as the Landlord shall discover or as the Tenant or other
authorised-person or Authority shall notify to the Landlord in writing and maintain the same
in a proper state of repair and condition at the cost of the Landlord PROVIDED that the
Landlord shall be entitled to be given a reasonable period of time wherein to view any such
defects and to amend and repair the same. 

3  
       
      Lifts, air-conditioning services, etc.  

To use its best endeavours or arrange for the building manager to use its best
endeavours to maintain and keep the lifts, escalators, air-conditioning system and services
of the Building in a proper state of repair and condition. 

4  
       
      Property tax  

To pay the Property Tax for the time being payable in respect of the Premises. 

5  
       
      Maintenance of common parts  

To use its best endeavors or arrange for the building manager to use its best
endeavors to: 

5.1 
       
     Maintain, light, clean, operate and service all the common parts of the Building; 

5.2 
       
     Keep the common parts toilets and other parts of the Building for common use
clean and in proper condition; and 

5.3 
       
     Maintain lifts escalators fire and security services equipment air-conditioning
plant and other facilities of the Building in proper working order. 

6  
       
      Directory board  

To maintain at the main entrances and in all other places as the Landlord shall deem fit
directory boards and to allot space thereon for Tenant s name to be affixed in such uniform
lettering or characters as shall be designated by the Landlord. 

SECTION VII 
EXCLUSIONS OF LIABILITY 

1  
       
     The Landlord shall not be liable to the Tenant its servants licensees or invitees in
respect of any claim loss (including but not limited to loss of profits) damage or injury to
person 

- 20 -

or property sustained by the Tenant or any such other person caused by or through
or in any way
owing to :- 

1.1  
       
      Lifts escalators and other services  

any defect in or breakdown or suspension of the lifts escalators fire fighting
detection system water sprinkler equipment central air-conditioning
system or
other facilities of the Building or any of them; or 

1.2  
       
      Electricity supply  

any failure malfunction explosion or suspension of the electricity supply to
the Building or the Premises; or 

1.3  
       
      Fire overflow of water and vermin  

fire or the overflow or leakage of water including rain, storm or sea water
from anywhere within the Building or the influx of water including rain, storm or sea
water into the Building or the Premises or the escape of fumes, smoke, fire or to
activity of termites pests rats or other vermin in the Building; or 

1.4  
       
      Typhoon  

in respect of loss or damage caused by through or in anywise owing to any typhoon; or 

1.5  
       
      Water sprinklers  

any use of water sprinkler devices or their coming into operation whether by
intentional operation or as a result of mechanical failure or malfunction; or 

1.6  
       
      Services  

the adequacy or otherwise of any of the management services (including
security) rendered by the Landlord and/or the Building Manager or the Cleaning
Services rendered by Best Result Cleaning Services Limited or the failure to render
the same or the suspension or interruption thereof for whatever reason; 

nor shall the Rent or Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge or service charge or any part
thereof cease to be payable other than in the circumstances set out in Section
VIII.

- 21 -

SECTION VIII 
ABATEMENT OF RENT 

1  
       
      Abatement  

1.1 
       
     If the Premises or the Building or any part thereof shall at any time during the Term be
destroyed or damaged or become unfit for occupation not due to any default of the Tenant but
owing to fire flooding storm typhoon defective construction white ants earthquake
subsidence of the ground or any calamity beyond the control of the Landlord and the policy or
policies of insurance effected by the Landlord shall not have been vitiated or payment
of policy moneys refused in whole or in part in consequence of any act or default of
the Tenant or if at any time during the continuance of this tenancy the
Premises shall be condemned as a dangerous structure or a demolition order or a
closing order shall become operative in respect of the Premises the rent hereby
reserved or a proportionate part thereof according to the extent and duration of
the damage sustained shall be suspended until the Premises shall again be
rendered fit for occupation and use. 

1.2 
       
     The Landlord shall be under no obligation to repair or to reinstate the
Premises if by reason of me condition of the same or any local Regulations or
other circumstances beyond the control of the Landlord it is not practicable
or reasonable to do so. 

1.3 
       
     If the whole or substantially the whole of the Premises are not repaired
or reinstated within three months from the occurrence of such event or the order either
the Landlord or the Tenant shall have the right thereafter to determine this Agreement by
giving one month s notice in writing to the other, whereupon everything herein contained
shall determine as from the date of the expiry of such notice but without prejudice to the
rights and remedies of either party against the other in respect of any antecedent claim or
breach of the agreements stipulations terms and conditions herein contained or of the
Landlord in respect of the rent payable hereunder prior to the coming into effect of the
cessation of the liability to pay rent. 

SECTION IX 
DEFAULT 

It is hereby further expressly agreed and declared as follows:-  

1  
       
      Default  

If the Rent or other charges or additional outgoings with interest thereon (if any)
hereby reserved or any part thereof shall be in arrears at any time after the due date
(whether 

- 22 -

formally demanded or not) or if there shall be any other breach or non-performance of any of
the covenants stipulations conditions or agreements herein contained and on the part of the
Tenant to be observed or performed or if the Tenant shall become bankrupt or being a
corporation go into liquidation whether compulsory or voluntary (save for the purposes of
amalgamation or reconstruction) or if a receiver or a receiver and manager is being appointed
against all or any of the asset or business of the Tenant or if any petition
shall be filed for the winding up of the Tenant or if the Tenant shall otherwise become
insolvent or enter into any arrangement or composition for the benefit of the
Tenant s creditor(s) or shall suffer any distress or execution to be levied upon the Premises
or otherwise on the Tenant s goods or effects or if the Tenant persistently fails to pay
the Rent or any payments hereby stipulated and when due, then and in any such case it
shall be lawful for the Landlord or any person duly authorised in that behalf at any
time thereafter to re-enter into and upon the Premises or any part thereof in the name of
the whole whereupon this Agreement shall absolutely determine and the deposit paid
as hereinafter mentioned shall be absolutely forfeited to the Landlord as and for
liquidated damages and not as penalty but without prejudice to any right of action by the
Landlord in respect of any outstanding breach or non-observance or non-performance by
the Tenant of any of the terms of this Agreement and the Landlord shall be entitled to
recover from the Tenant all loss and damage it sustains as a direct or indirect result of
such early determination. 

2  
       
      Service of notice  

A written notice served by the Landlord on the Tenant or left at the Premises, to the
effect that the Landlord thereby exercises the power of re-entry, shall be a full and
sufficient exercise of such power without actual entry on the part of the Landlord. 

3  
       
      Acceptance of rent  

The acceptance of any rent by the Landlord hereunder shall not be deemed to operate or be
regarded by the Tenant as a waiver by the Landlord of any right to proceed against the Tenant
in respect of any breach or non-observance or non-performance by the Tenant of any of the
covenants agreements stipulations terms and conditions herein contained and on the part of
the Tenant to be observed and performed. 

4  
       
      Interest  

Without prejudice to the right of the Landlord to exercise any other right or
remedy (including the right of re-entry) exercisable under the terms of this Agreement, in
the event of default in payment of Rent and/or any charges payable hereunder or any
part thereof on its due date, the Tenant shall further pay to the Landlord on demand interest
on the amount in arrears at the rate of 1.5% per month calculated from the date on which
the same became due for payment until the date of payment as liquidated damages and not
as penalty. 

- 23 -

5  
       
      Act of employees, etc.  

For the purpose of these presents any act default neglect or omission on the part of
any guest visitor servant contractor employee agent invitee or licensee of the Tenant shall
be deemed to be the act default neglect or omission of the Tenant. 

6  
       
      Distraint  

In addition to Rent any amounts falling due under this Agreement may be recovered by distress
as rent in arrears. For the purposes of Part III of the Landlord and Tenant (Consolidation)
Ordinance (Cap. 7) and of these presents, the Rent payable in respect of the Premises and
other amounts recoverable by distress as rent in arrears shall be and be deemed to be in
arrears if not paid in advance at the times and in the manner hereinbefore provided for
payment thereof. All costs and expenses of and incidental to distraint shall be paid by the
Tenant on a full indemnity basis and shall be recoverable from it as a debt. 

7  
       
      Recovery of Landlord s expenses  

The Tenant shall pay to the Landlord on an indemnity basis all costs fees
charges disbursements and expenses (including without prejudice to the generality of
the foregoing those payable to counsels solicitors (on a solicitor-and-own client
basis) surveyors architects and bailiffs) incurred by the Landlord in relation or incidental
to or in respect of: 

(a) 
       
     the preparation and service of a notice under Section 58 of the Conveyancing and
Property Ordinance (Cap.219), notwithstanding forfeiture is avoided otherwise than by relief
granted by the Court; and 

(b) 
       
     the Tenant s non-observance or non-performance of the terms of this Agreement
and/or the Landlord s exercise of its rights and powers under this Agreement, including but
not limited to recovery of rent and the Landlord s exercise of its right of re-entry. 

SECTION X 
GENERAL 

1  
       
      Yield Up Premises And Handover  

1.1 

(a)

The Tenant shall yield up the Premises with all keys giving access to all parts of
the Premises with all fixtures fittings and additions therein and thereto at the expiration
or sooner determination of this Agreement in good clean and tenantable repair and condition
in accordance with the stipulations herein contained. 

- 24 -

(b) 
       
     Where the Tenant has made any alterations or installed any fixtures or additions to
the Premises whether with or without the Landlord s consent, the Landlord may at its
discretion require the Tenant to reinstate, remove or do away with such alterations fixtures
or additions or any part or portion thereof and thereafter make good and repair in a proper
and workmanlike manner any damage to the Premises and the Landlord s fixtures and
fittings therein as a result thereof before delivering up the Premises to the Landlord. 

(c) 
       
     If required by the Landlord, the Tenant shall at its own cost remove or do away
with all alterations fixtures or additions to the Premises whether the same were
made by the Tenant or not, and make good and repair in a proper and workmanlike
manner any damage to the Premises as a result thereof and deliver the Premises to
the Landlord in a bare-shell condition upon the expiration or sooner determination
of this Agreement. 

(d) 
       
     Should the Tenant fail to remove any fixtures or additions and reinstate the
Premises as required by the Landlord as aforesaid, the Landlord shall be entitled at
its sole discretion to remove the said fixtures or additions and reinstate the
Premises at the sole expense of the Tenant and the cost thereof shall be a debt due
from the Tenant to the Landlord and be recoverable forthwith by action. 

1.2 
       
     The Tenant hereby irrevocably appoints the Landlord as its agent with authority to
enter upon the Premises and to deal with at the Tenant s risk and expense any of the
Tenant s effects left on or about the Premises for more than five days after the expiry
of the Term or its determination (howsoever arising or occasioned) to the intent mat
the Landlord may without liability to the Tenant dispose of or destroy or otherwise deal
with the same as the Landlord shall think fit. In the event that the Landlord is unable
to gain access to the Premises, the Tenant expressly confirms that the Landlord as its
agent may use any means (including the use of force) to effect entry upon the Premises. 

2  
       
      No excuse for non-payment of rent  

This Agreement and the obligation of the Tenant to pay rent and other sums due hereunder
and to perform the Tenant s obligations hereunder shall in no way be affected impaired or
excused because the Landlord is unable due to circumstances beyond its control to fulfil any
of its obligations under this Agreement or to supply or is delayed in supplying any service
expressly or implied to be supplied or is unable to make or is delayed in making any repair
additions alterations or decoration or is unable to supply or is delayed in supplying any
equipment or fixtures if the Landlord is prevented or delayed from so doing by reason of
strike labour shortage of materials or any outside cause 

- 25 -

whatsoever or by reason of any order or regulation of any department of the
Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

3  
       
      Condonation not a waiver  

3.1 
       
     No condoning, excusing or overlooking by the Landlord of any default, breach or
non-observance or non-performance by the Tenant at any time or times of any of the covenants
agreements stipulations terms and conditions herein contained shall operate or be regarded by
the Tenant as a waiver of the Landlord s rights hereunder in respect of any continuing or
subsequent default, breach or non-observance or non- performance or so as to defeat or affect
in any way the rights and remedies of the Landlord hereunder in respect of any such
continuing or subsequent default or breach and no waiver by the Landlord shall be
inferred from or implied by anything done or omitted by the Landlord, unless
expressed in writing and signed by the Landlord. 

3.2 
       
     Any consent given by the Landlord shall operate as a consent only for
the particular matter to which it relates and shall in no way be considered as a waiver
or release of any of the provisions hereof nor shall it be construed as dispensing with the
necessity of obtaining the specific written consent of the Landlord in the future, unless
expressly so provided. 

4  
       
      Approval of Landlord  

The Landlord and its authorised agents shall have absolute discretion in granting or refusing
any approval sought by the Tenant hereunder and any approval if granted may be subject to
such conditions as the Landlord or its agents think fit. No approval by the Landlord is valid
unless it is in writing and is signed and dated by the Landlord or its authorised agent. 

5  
       
      Re-letting notice  

During the three (3) months immediately preceding the determination of the Term the Landlord
shall be at liberty to affix and retain without interference upon any external part of the
Premises a notice for re-letting the same. 

6  
       
      Service of notices  

Any notice required to be served hereunder shall be sufficiently served on the Tenant
if delivered to it by post or left addressed to it at the Premises or at its last known
address in Hong Kong and shall be sufficiently served on the Landlord if sent to it by post
or delivered to it at the address given herein or any other address which the Landlord
may notify to the Tenant from time to time. A notice sent by post shall be deemed to have  

- 26 -

been given at the time when in due course of post it would be delivered at the address
to which it is sent. 

7  
       
      Legal costs  

The Landlord s solicitors  legal cots (calculated at full scale), disbursements and other
legal expenses in connection with-the preparation and signing of this Agreement and its counterpart
shall be borne by the Landlord and the Tenant in equal shares. Should the Tenant engage a
separate firm of solicitors to act on its behalf then each party shall pay its own
solicitor s costs. 

8  
       
      Stamp duty  

The stamp duty upon this Agreement and its counterpart, the Land Registry registration fees
(if any), the ratification fee (if any) and all other disbursements in connection with this
Agreement and its counterpart shall be borne by the Landlord and the Tenant in equal shares. 

9  
       
      No premium or fine  

The Tenant hereby expressly admits and declares that no premium or fine or
other consideration or key money has been paid to the Landlord by the Tenant for the
creation of this tenancy. 

10  
       
      Exclusion of Warranty as to use  

Nothing in this Agreement or in any consent granted by the Landlord under this Agreement
shall imply or warrant that the Premises may be used for the purpose authorised in this
Agreement. In the event that the Government or any competent authority serves notice
prohibiting the use of the Premises in the manner permitted hereunder the Tenant shall
forthwith comply with the notice failing which the Landlord shall be entitled to terminate
this Agreement by one month s notice or such shorter notice as may be required or as the
parties may agree. On the expiration of the Landlord s notice, this Agreement shall terminate
but without prejudice to either party s claim against the other in respect of any antecedent
breach of this Agreement. 

11  
       
      Full Agreement  

Subject to Clause 12 below, this Agreement sets out the full and only agreement
reached between the parties and supersedes any other representations, warranties,
or understandings, written or verbal, that the parties may have had with respect to
the Premises and the Building. 

- 27 -

12  
       
      Outstanding obligations  

Any outstanding obligations on the part of the Tenant to be observed and
performed under the Offer Letter and/or the Agreement for Tenancy Agreement (if any) pursuant
to which this Agreement is entered into shall continue to be in force and shall not
merge with this Agreement unless the Landlord shall otherwise stipulate. 

13  
       
      Sales and Redevelopment  

13.1 
       
     Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if
at any time during the Term the Landlord shall decide to redevelop, renovate, refurbish
or redesign the Building or any part thereof (which decision shall be sufficiently evidenced
by a certified true copy of the relevant Board Resolution of the Landlord) or shall sell
assign or enter into any agreement for the sale or assignment of the whole or any part of the
Building which includes the Premises, the Landlord shall be entitled to give six (6) calendar
months  notice in writing to the Tenant to determine this Agreement and at the expiry of such
notice everything herein contained shall cease and be void and the Tenant
shall immediately deliver up vacant possession of the Premises to the Landlord. 

13.2 
       
     The Tenant shall not be entitled to claim against the Landlord for
any compensation for the loss of goodwill or business, damages or any costs
and expenses incurred by the Tenant whatsoever but any such termination shall
be without prejudice to the rights and remedies of either party against the other
in respect of any antecedent claim or breach of any terms or stipulations
herein contained. 

13.3 
       
     The expression  Landlord  in this clause shall include the Landlord s successors
in title and this clause shall enure for the benefit of the Landlord s successors in title. 

13.4 
       
     It is also agreed and declared notwithstanding any other provision herein
and notwithstanding any law to the contrary the Tenant s option right(s) (if any) shall
be extinguished and determined upon the service of the said notice of termination whether
such rights shall have been exercised by the Tenant or not. 

13.5 
       
     The Tenant shall not be entitled to any claim against the Landlord for any damages
or compensation or any relief against such extinguishment and determination of its option
right(s). 

14  
       
      Consent for the release of information  

14.1 
       
     The Tenant acknowledges and agrees that from time to time, during and after  

- 28 -

the expiry of this tenancy, it may be necessary for the Landlord to disclose, release,
transfer or otherwise make use of information relating to the Tenant collected, held or
processed by the Landlord. 

14.2 
       
     The Tenant agrees and consents to the disclosure, release, transfer or other use of such
information by the Landlord for the purposes of, or in connection with, the tenancy hereby
created, or such other purposes as the Landlord may deem fit. 

15  
       
      Reservation of rights  

The Landlord reserves the right, exercisable at any time or times: - 

15.1 
       
     To install or erect at the entrances passages passageways doorways
corridors landings staircases lobbies or other public parts of the Building,
counters, showcases or light boxes and to change the arrangement and/or location
of entrances passageways doors doorways corridors landings staircases lobbies lifts
escalators toilets or other public parts of the Building or any service or apparatus serving
me Building. 

15.2 
       
     To change the name or description of the Building or any part hereof PROVIDED that
in such event, the Landlord shall give to the Tenant and the Postal and other Government
Authorities not less than three months  advance notice in writing of any such proposed
change. 

15.3 
       
     To change the user of any part of the Building for any other commercial purposes
(including but not limited to restaurant and/or retail purposes), renovate or refurbish the
shopping arcade (if any) or office area or any part or any area of the Building and to
change, alter, amend, vary, add to and re-locate the layout of the shopping arcade (if any)
or office area or any part or any area of the Building including but not limited to the
external walls, entrance lobbies, staircases, landings, passages, corridors, toilets, lifts
and escalators and to carry our works to effect such change of user, renovation,
refurbishment, change, alteration, amendment, variation, addition and re-location, and the
Tenant shall not be entitled to object to the change of user, renovation, refurbishment,
change, alteration, amendment, variation, addition, re-location or any works as
aforesaid and shall have no right of action or claim for compensation whatsoever
in connection with any matters arising from this Clause. 

15.4 
       
     To make or cause to be made any structural or non-structural alteration
or improvement in or addition to entrances landings staircases driveways
passages lobbies or any part of the Building in common use, without incurring
any liability to make any payment to the Tenant on any account whatsoever. 

- 29 -

15.5 
       
     To make introduce, amend, adopt or abolish regulations as it may consider necessary for
the management and maintenance of the Building as a first class commercial Building. Such
regulations shall be supplementary to the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement
and shall not in any way derogate from such terms and conditions. In the event of conflict
between such regulations and the terms and conditions of this Agreement the terms and
conditions of this Agreement shall prevail. 

16  
       
      Meaning of  Tenant   

The expression  the Tenant  shall (where the context permits) mean and include the party
or parties specifically named and shall not include the executors and administrators of any
such parry or where such party is a corporation any liquidator or receiver thereof. 

17  
       
      Responsible for acts of servant, etc.  

Any act default neglect or omissions of the agents contractors servants customers
or visitors of the Tenant shall be deemed to be the act default neglect or omission of
the Tenant. 

18  
       
      Special condition(s)  

The parties hereto hereby agree that the terms or conditions or matters set out in the
Sixth Schedule hereto shall apply to this Agreement and shall be incorporated as an
integral part of this Agreement 

19  
       
      Governing law  

This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in all respects according to the
laws of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and the Tenant hereby
irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Hong Kong
Special Administration Region. The submission to such jurisdiction shall not limit the right
of the Landlord to take proceedings in whatever jurisdiction it may think fit, nor shall
the taking of proceedings in any jurisdiction preclude the taking of proceedings in any
other jurisdiction or jurisdictions, whether concurrently or not.  

- 30 -

T HE FIRST SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO  

PART I  

LANDLORD

:

WIDE HARVEST INVESTMENT LIMITED whose registered office is situate at 12th Floor,
Tsim Sha Tsui Centre, Salisbury Road, Tsim Sha
Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong ( Landlord  which expression shall include its successors and
assigns). 

TENANT

:

EMAK HONG KONG LIMITED whose registered office is situate at Suite Nos. 1-4 ,18th
Floor, Tower 6, China Hong Kong City, 33 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong
( Tenant ). 

PART II  

Premises

:

SUITE NOS. 5B AND 6A on the 19TH FLOOR of TOWER 6 of CHINA HONG KONG CITY ( the
Building ) at No. 33 Canton Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong (the said Suite for the purpose of
identification only is delineated and coloured Pink on the Floor Plan annexed hereto). 

PART III  

Term

:

For the term of three years commencing on the 1st day of September 2005
and expiring on the 31st day of August 2008 (both days inclusive). 

PART IV  

User

:

Restricted to use by the Tenant as office premises only and for no other purpose whatsoever. 

PART V  

Deposit

:

The sum of HK$66,648.60 (equivalent to three months  rental deposit
and three months  Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge deposit and rates deposit)
payable to the Landlord on or before the signing of this Agreement. 

- 31 -

THE SECOND SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO  

PART I  

PARTICULARS OF RENT  

(1) 
       
     The rent payable during the Term shall be HK$16,704.00 each calendar month
payable in advance on the first day of each calendar month (without any deduction or
set-off). 

(2) 
       
     The rent is exclusive of rates, Government rent (if any), Management Fee
and Air-Conditioning Charge and other outgoings. 

(3) 
       
     Subject to the Tenant s due observance and performance of all the conditions
contained in this Agreement, the Tenant shall have the following rent free period(s) : 

During any rent free period the Tenant shall continue to pay the Management Fee
and Air-Conditioning Charge and rates and Government rent (if any) and all other
outgoings payable.

PART II  

PARTICULARS OF CHARGES  

Management Fee and Air-Conditioning Charge:

HK$4,677.00 per calendar month (subject to
revision pursuant to Clause 1.5 of Section III). 

- 32 -

THE THIRD SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO  

FITTING OUT REQUIREMENTS  

The Tenant shall :-

(a) 
       
     Provide electrical light fittings and a ceiling of non-combustible material approved
by the Landlord save that no combustible material will be permitted above the ceiling. If
the Tenant requires any extension or relocation of the sprinkler heads and/or the
smoke detectors and other fire services equipment installed by the Landlord, the cost of
such work will be paid by the Tenant. 

(b) 
       
     Provide vertical window blinds, tracks and fittings at the Tenant s expenses. 

(c) 
       
     Paint and decorate the interior of the Premises to the satisfaction of the Landlord. 

(d) 
       
     Furnish and install floor fill and floor finishes. PVC tiles shall not be used
unless approved by the Landlord. 

(e) 
       
     With the relevant plan showing all the details including but not limited to the gauge
of wire, etc. duly approved in writing in advance by the Landlord, apply for the
electricity water meters from the relevant authorities, complete all electrical and
mechanical installations (heating, lighting system, ventilation, air-conditioning, sub-main
cable, wiring, plumbing, drainage and fire services) for the purpose of providing
electrical mechanical and drainage services to and within the Premises PROVIDED that
the reinstatement of the ceiling or any part of the common area damaged by or
removed during the connecting of electricity to the Premises shall be carried out by the
Landlord s nominated contractor at the Tenant s expense. 

(f) 
       
     Furnish and install or arrange for the installation of telephones as well as other
Tenant s requirements within the Premises together with such meters as are necessary to
measure the Tenant s consumption thereof and to employ only the contractors nominated
or approved by the Landlord for such purposes. 

(g) 
       
     Furnish, install, support and connect all lighting fixtures, including lamps, switches
and wiring, save that in the case of support involving cutting into structure prior
written approval of the Landlord will be required and in all instances only the
contractor designated by the Landlord shall be used. 

(h) 
       
     Install such fire extinguishers or other means of fire-fighting equipment inside
the Premises as may be required from time to time by all relevant Ordinances and
regulations of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

-33-

THE FOURTH SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO    

BUILDING RULES AND REGULATIONS  

(a) 
       
     Plumbing fixtures shall be used only for the purposes for which they were
constructed. No sweeping rubbish rags or other alien substance shall be deposited therein.
All costs for making good damages resulting from any misuse of the plumbing fixtures shall
be born by the Tenant 

(b) 
       
     Unless with the written consent of the Landlord, no tenant may drill into or in any
way deface any part of the Premises or the Building. 

(c) 
       
     Unless with the written consent of the Landlord, and such consent will not be
usually granted, no flagpoles or aerials shall be erected, and no flags may be flown
from windows or elsewhere in or upon the Building. 

(d) 
       
     The loading and unloading of goods shall be carried out in such manner and within such
times as from time to time are designated by the Landlord. 

(e) 
       
     Canvassing and peddling in the Building is prohibited. 

(f) 
       
     No tenant shall cause or permit any noise which is or may be a nuisance or annoyance to
the occupants of other portions of the Building. 

(g) 
       
     No animals or pets may be kept in the Premises or the Building. 

(h) 
       
     No security organization shall be employed by Tenant without the Landlord s
prior consent. 

(i) 
       
     No film or movies shooting relating to the Building is permitted unless the prior written
consent from the Landlord is obtained. 

(j) 
       
     No person is allowed to sit, loiter or sleep on public passages, staircases or shopfronts. 

(k) 
       
     Save and except where the Premises are let for the express purpose of a Food or Beverage
outlet or restaurant, the preparation of food in the Premises is expressly prohibited save
with the Landlord s prior permission in writing. 

(1) 
       
     No person may place or leave any rubbish in the entrances or any of the
staircases, corridors, passages or landings of the Building used in common. 

(m) 
       
     No person may permit or suffer any sale by auction to be held upon the Premises. 

-34-

THE FIFTH SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO  

NORMAL AIR-CONDITIONING SUPPLY HOURS  

-35-

THE SIXTH SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO  

SPECIAL CONDITIONS  

1. 
       
     To pay to the Landlord such handling charge as the Landlord shall determine in
its absolute discretion from time to time during the Term for considering the Tenant s
fitting out plans and specifications and inspecting the fitting out works carried out or to
be carried out in the Premises. 

2. 
       
     The Tenant shall pay and discharge any temporary electricity charges incurred during
the fitting out period as demanded by the Building Manager. 

3. 
       
     The Tenant shall pay a sum, as demanded by the Landlord or the Building Manager of
the Building as a fitting out and decoration deposit before commencing to fit out
the Premises. Such sum shall be refunded to the Tenant without interest subject to
any necessary deductions, upon completion of the decoration works. 

4. 
       
     From time to time as necessary and upon completion of the fitting out work in
the Premises, the Tenant shall at its own expense remove all debris and rubbish
resulting from such fitting out work to the location designated by the Landlord or the
Building Manager or their authorised agents in an orderly and proper manner. 

5. 
       
     Before taking possession of the Premises, the Tenant shall pay to the Landlord the
following: 

-36-

6. 
       
     Subject to the Tenant s due execution of this Agreement and payment of
all sums required, vacant possession of the Premises in a  bare shell 
condition shall be delivered to the Tenant. 

7. 
       
     The Premises shall be handed over to the Tenant with all the
fixtures, fittings and partitions left behind by the previous tenant of the
Premises. 

8. 
       
     The Tenant shall be entitled at its own cost and expense to construct a partition
wall between Suites No. 6A and 6B at the location indicated by   X  on the floor plan
annexed and in all compliance with any existing ordinances rules and regulations. For
the avoidance of doubt and notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary herein stated,
the Tenant shall at the expiration or sooner determination of this tenancy at its own cost
and expenses re-instate and/or remove the said partition wall as shall be required by
the Landlord (at the sole discretion of the Landlord) and to the satisfaction of the
Landlord. 

-37-

AS WITNESS the hands of the parties hereto the day and year first above written.

SIGNED by

) 

Connie Kwong   Lin Hung

) 

of Sino Real Estate

) 

For and on behalf of 

Agency Limited, a company duly

) 

SINO REAL ESTATE AGENCY LTD. 

authorised by the Board of

) 

/s/ Connie Kwong-Lin Hung                                      

Directors of the Landlord

) 

Agent for the landlord for 

for and on behalf of Sino Real Estate

) 

the sole purpose of 

Agency Limited as agent for the

) 

execution of this Agreement 

Landlord for the sole purpose of

) 

execution of this Agreement

) 

whose signature is verified by :-

) 

/s/ Cheung Fong                   

Cheung Fong, Debbie

Solicitor, Hong Kong SAR

Messrs. Baker   McKenzie

SIGNED by Mr. Lee Siu Kau

) 

For and on behalf of 

) 

EMAK HONG KONG LIMITED 

for and on behalf of the Tenant

) 

/s/
Mr. Lee Siu Kau                                  

whose signature(s) is /are verified by

) 

Authorized Signatures  

/s/ Cynthia S. W. Lee     

Cynthia S. W. Lee

Solicitor

Preston Gates     Ellis

Hong Kong SAR

For and on behalf of 

SINO REAL ESTATE AGENCY TTD. 

RECEIVED the day and year first above

) 

/s/
Connnie Kwong-Lin Hung                                     

written of and from the Tenant the sum of

) 

Agent for the landlord for 

HONG KONG DOLLARS SIXTY-SIX

) 

the sole purpose of 

THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED FORTY-EIGHT

) 

execution of this Agreement 

AND CENTS SIXTY ONLY being the above

) 

mentioned deposit to be paid by the Tenant

) 

to the Landlord.

) 

HK$66,648.60 

SIGNATURE VERIFIED BY:-

/s/ Cheung Fong                     

Cheung Fong, Debbie

Solicitor, Hong Kong SAR

Messrs. Baker   McKenzie

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.8>
 5
 v19133exv10w8.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.8

exv10w8 

Exhibit 10.8 

303 EAST WACKER DRIVE 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

OFFICE LEASE

between

303
WACKER REALTY L.L.C.

Landlord

and

PROMOTIONAL MARKETING, L.L.C., 
d/b/a UPSHOT

Tenant

Dated
as of June 30, 1998

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

i

ii

EXHIBITS  

A-l

Depiction of Land 

A-2

Legal Description of Land 

A-3

Floor Plans of Premises 

B

Other Definitions 

C

Workletter 

D

Taxes and Expenses 

E

Cleaning Specifications 

F

Rules and Regulations 

G

Form of Subordination, Non-Disturbance and Attornment Agreement 

H

Form of Letter of Credit 

I

Total Expansion Space 

iii

OFFICE LEASE  

Landlord and Tenant hereby covenant and agree as follows:

1.    CERTAIN
PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS  . The following provisions and
definitions are an integral part of this lease:

(a)  Additional Allowance :  The amount, if any, contributed by Landlord
pursuant to the Workletter to the cost of Tenant s Work which is in excess of
the amount
of the Base Allowance provided for in the Workletter.

(b)
 Base Rent :  The respective amounts for each Lease Year of the Initial
Term set forth in the following table (based on the respective rates of Base
Rent per square
foot of Rentable Area set forth in the following table), subject to adjustment
(i) for the first
Lease Year, pursuant to Section 34 below on account of the Initial Growth Space
and
(ii) for every Lease Year of the Initial Term, pursuant to the remaining
provisions of this
Section l(b) regarding any Additional Allowance:

If there is an Additional Allowance, Base Rent for each Lease Year of the Initial Term shall
be equal to the sum of (i) Base Rent set forth in the table above, as adjusted pursuant to Section
34 below on account of the Initial Growth Space, plus (ii) the product of (A) the amount which will
be necessary to pay the Additional Allowance, together with interest on the balance of the
Additional Allowance from time to time outstanding at the rate of eleven percent (11%) per annum,
in full in one hundred twenty (120) equal monthly installments multiplied by (B) twelve (12);
Monthly Base Rent for each Lease Year of the Initial Term shall be one-twelfth-of the respective
amounts so determined; and Base Rent per square foot for each Lease Year shall be an amount equal
to the Base Rent for the particular Lease Year as so determined divided by the Rentable Area of the
Premises.

(c) 
 Brokers :  Hines Interests Limited Partnership and Binswanger,

(d) 
 Building :  The office building located at 303 East Wacker Drive,
Chicago, Illinois 60601-5210.

(e) 
 Commencement Date :  The earlier of (i) April 1, 1999 or (ii) the day
Tenant first begins to conduct any business operations in the Premises.

(f) 
 Expiration Date :  The last full day of the Term.

2

]

(g)   Initial Term :  The period ending on the last day of the tenth (10th) Lease
Year.

(h)   Land :  The parcel(s) of real estate on which the Building is located, which are
depicted on Exhibit A-l and legally described on Exhibit A-2.

(i)   Landlord s Work :  The work to be performed by or on behalf of Landlord pursuant to
the Workletter.

(j)
  Lease Year :  If the Commencement Date is the first day of a calendar
month, the period of twelve (12) consecutive months commencing on the Commencement
Date; if the Commencement Date is not the first day of a calendar month, the period
commencing on the Commencement Date and ending on the last day of the twelfth (12th)
full calendar month of the Term; and, in either case, each consecutive twelve (12) month
period thereafter which falls in whole or in part during the Term.

(k)   Premises :  The entire 23rd and 24th floors of the Building, as shown on Exhibit
A-3, which consist of 60,494 square feet of Rentable Area measured in accordance
with the BOMA method of measurement as more fully described in Exhibit B.

(l)   Project :  The Land and the Building, together with any other improvements located
on the Land, all equipment, fixtures, machinery, systems, apparatus and personal property of
Landlord located at or used in connection with the Land or the Building from time to time.

(m)   Security Deposit :  See Section 29.

(n)   Tenant Alterations :  Any alteration, improvements or additions (including
decorations) to the Premises performed or to be performed by or on behalf of Tenant,
including, without limitation, the Tenant s Work, but excluding any of Landlord s Work to be
performed by or on behalf of Landlord under the Workletter.

(o)   Tenant s Proportionate Share :  The percentage determined as described in Exhibit B,
which percentage, as of the date of this lease, is (i) 6.5566% for the first Lease Year,
subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 34 below on account of the Initial Growth Space,
and (ii) 7.8550% for each subsequent Lease Year.

(p)   Tenant s Work :  The work to be performed by or on behalf of Tenant to ready the
Premises for initial occupancy by Tenant, as more particularly described in Section 7 hereof
and in the Workletter.

3

(q)   Term :  The Initial Term and any extension or renewal of the Initial
Term specifically provided herein.

(r)
  Use :  General office use.

(s)
  Workletter :  The Workletter, attached hereto as Exhibit C.

See
Exhibit B and the Workletter for other definitions of terms used
herein. 

2.   GRANT
AND ACCEPTANCE OF LEASE.   Landlord hereby leases the Premises
to Tenant and Tenant hereby accepts and leases the Premises from Landlord to have and to hold
during the Term, subject to the terms and conditions of this lease.

3.   RENT  . Base Rent, Additional Rent, Additional Rent Estimate and all other
amounts becoming due from Tenant to Landlord hereunder (collectively   Rent  ) shall be paid in
lawful money of the United States to Landlord at the following address: 303 East Wacker Drive,
Chicago, Illinois 60601 or such other address as Landlord- shall designate in writing to
Tenant
from time to time, without any demand and without any reduction, abatement, counterclaim, 
deduction or set-off whatsoever, except as expressly provided herein, at the times and in the
manner hereinafter provided. Rent unpaid for five (5) days after the due date shall bear
interest
at the Default Rate from the date due until paid. The payment of Rent hereunder is independent 
of each and every other covenant and agreement contained in this lease.

4.   BASE
RENT  . Tenant shall pay Base Rent to Landlord in equal monthly
installments in the respective amounts per Lease Year determined
pursuant to Section 1(b),
subject
to the provisions of Section 34 below (herein called   Monthly Base Rent  ), in advance on the
Commencement Date and on or before the first day of each and every calendar month during the
Term. If the Term shall begin on any day other than the first day of a calendar month or end
on
any day other than the last day of a calendar month, then the Monthly Base Rent for any
partial
calendar month within the Term shall be prorated on a per diem basis.

5.   ADDITIONAL
RENT  . In addition to paving the Base Rent, Tenant shall also pay
as additional rent the amounts (collectively   Additional Rent  ) determined to be Tax
Adjustment
and Expense Adjustment in accordance with this Section 5:

(a)  
Computation of Additional Rent  . Tenant shall pay as Additional Rent for each
Calculation Year the following amounts:

(i) Tenant s Proportionate Share of Taxes for such Calculation Year (the
  Tax Adjustment  ); plus

4

(ii) Tenant s Proportionate Share of Expenses for such Calculation Year (the
  Expense Adjustment  ).

(b)
  Payments of Additional Rent; Additional Rent Estimate; Projections  .
Tenant shall pay Additional Rent to Landlord in the manner hereinafter provided. The aggregate of
payments required to be made by Tenant on account of Additional Rent for any Calculation Year until
actual Additional Rent is determined is herein called
  Additional Rent Estimate  .

(i) Landlord may, at any time and from time to time prior to the first Calculation
Date and during the Term (but not more than twice for any given calendar year after
Tenant s Additional Rent Estimate is established for that calendar year), deliver to Tenant
a written notice or notices (  Projection Notice  ) setting forth:

(A) Landlord s reasonable estimates, forecasts or projections
(collectively, the   Projections  ) of any or all of Taxes and Expenses for
such Calculation Year, and

(B) Tenant s Additional Rent Estimate (setting forth the Expense
Adjustment component and Tax Adjustment component separately) based
upon the Projections, being the Tenant s Proportionate Share of the
Projections.

(ii)
On or before the first (1st) day of the next calendar month following Landlord s
service of a Projection Notice, and on or before the first day of each month thereafter,
Tenant shall pay to Landlord one-twelfth (1/12) of the Additional Rent Estimate shown in
the Projection Notice. Within fifteen (15) days following Landlord s service of a
Projection Notice, to bring Tenant s payments of Additional Rent Estimate current, Tenant
shall also pay Landlord the amount set forth in the Projection Notice, which shall equal
the Additional Rent Estimate shown in the Projection Notice less (A) any previous payments
on account of Additional Rent Estimate made for such Calculation Year, and (B) total
monthly installments on account of Additional Rent Estimate not yet due and payable for
the remainder of such Calculation Year. Until such time as Landlord furnishes a Projection
Notice for a Calculation Year, Tenant shall pay to Landlord a monthly installment of
Additional Rent Estimate on the first day of each month equal to the greater of the latest
monthly installment of Additional Rent Estimate or one-twelfth (1/12) of Tenant s latest
determined Additional Rent.

5

(c)
  Readjustments  .

(i) Following the end of each Calculation Year and after Landlord shall have determined
the amount of Expenses to be used in calculating the Expense Adjustment for such Calculation Year,
Landlord shall notify Tenant in writing (any such notice of Expenses and Expense Adjustment herein
called  Landlord s Expense Statement ) of such Expenses and Tenant s Expense Adjustment for such
Calculation Year. If the Expense Adjustment owed for such Calculation Year exceeds the Expense
Adjustment component of the Additional Rent Estimate paid by Tenant during such Calculation Year,
then Tenant shall, within thirty (30) days after the date of Landlord s Expense Statement, pay to
Landlord an amount equal to the excess of the Expense Adjustment over the Expense Adjustment
component of the Additional Rent Estimate paid by Tenant during such
Calculation Year. If the
Expense Adjustment component of the Additional Rent Estimate paid by Tenant during such Calculation
Year exceeds the Expense Adjustment owed for such Calculation Year, then Landlord shall credit such
excess to Rent payable after the date of Landlord s Expense Statement, or may, at its option,
credit such excess to any Rent theretofore due and owing, until such excess has been exhausted. If
this lease shall expire or be terminated prior to full application of such excess, Landlord shall,
within thirty (30) days thereafter, pay to Tenant the balance thereof not theretofore applied
against Rent and not reasonably required for payment of Rent for the Calculation Year in which the
lease expires, subject to Tenant s obligations under Section 5(e) hereof, provided Tenant shall
have vacated the Premises and otherwise surrendered the Premises to Landlord in accordance with
this lease.

(ii) Following the end of each Calculation Year and after Landlord shall have determined the
actual amount of Taxes to be used in calculating the Tax Adjustment for such Calculation Year,
Landlord shall notify Tenant in writing (any such notice of Taxes and Tax Adjustment herein called
 Landlord s Tax Statement ) of such Taxes for such Calculation Year. If the Tax Adjustment owed
for such Calculation Year exceeds the Tax Adjustment component of the Additional Rent Estimate paid
by Tenant during such Calculation Year, then Tenant shall, within thirty (30) days after the date
of Landlord s Tax Statement, pay to Landlord an amount equal to the excess of the Tax Adjustment
over the Tax Adjustment component of the Additional Rent Estimate paid by Tenant during such
Calculation Year. If the Tax Adjustment component of the Additional Rent Estimate paid by Tenant
during such Calculation Year exceeds the Tax Adjustment owed for such Calculation Year, then
Landlord shall credit such excess to Rent payable after the date of Landlord s Tax Statement, or
may, at its option, credit such excess to any Rent theretofore due and owing, until such excess
has been exhausted. If this lease shall expire or be terminated prior to full application of such
excess, Landlord

6

shall, within thirty (30) days thereafter, pay to Tenant the balance thereof not
theretofore applied against Rent and not reasonably required for payment of Rent for the
Calculation Year in which the lease expires, subject to Tenant s obligations under Section
5(e) hereof, provided Tenant shall have vacated the Premises and otherwise surrendered the
Premises to Landlord in accordance with this lease.

(d)
  Books and Records  . Landlord shall maintain books and records showing
Taxes and Expenses in accordance with sound accounting and management practices.
Tenant and its Representative (as hereinafter defined) shall have the right to examine such
books and records showing Taxes and Expenses upon reasonable prior notice during
normal business hours and without interference with Landlord s operations at any time
within sixty (60) days following Tenant s receipt of Landlord s Expense Statement (as it
relates to an examination of Expenses) or Landlord s Tax Statement (as it relates to an
examination of Taxes) provided for in Section 5(c). Unless Tenant shall take written
exception to any item of Taxes or Expenses, specifying in detail the reasons for such
exception as to a particular item within ninety (90) days after Tenant s receipt of
Landlord s Expense Statement or Landlord s Tax Statement (as the case may be),
Landlord s Expense Statement and Landlord s Tax Statement, as applicable, shall be
considered as final and accepted by Tenant. Notwithstanding any exception made by
Tenant, Tenant shall pay Landlord the full amount of its Additional Rent Estimate and its
Additional Rent as determined by Landlord, subject to readjustment at such time as any
such exception may be resolved in favor of Tenant. Tenant s  Representative  shall be
either a nationally recognized independent certified public accounting firm licensed to do
business in the State of Illinois, or another accounting firm reasonably acceptable to
Landlord. For each examination of Landlord s books and records, the employees of
Tenant s Representative who personally examine such books and records shall-include a
certified public accountant, but if deemed necessary or appropriate by the accountant may
also include other real estate professionals who are experienced in management of first-
class office buildings. Tenant shall not retain its Representative on a contingent fee basis.

(e)
  Proration and Survival  . With respect to any Calculation Year which does
not fall entirely within the Term, Tenant shall be obligated to pay as Additional Rent for
such Calculation Year only a pro rata share of Additional Rent as hereinabove determined,
based upon the number of days of the Term falling within the Calculation Year.
Following expiration or termination of this lease, Tenant shall pay any Additional Rent
due to Landlord within fifteen (15) days after the date of Landlord s Expense Statement
or Landlord s Tax Statement (as the case may be) sent to Tenant. Without limiting other
obligations of Tenant which survive the expiration or termination of this lease, the
obligations of Tenant to pay Additional Rent provided for in this Section 5 shall survive
the expiration or earlier termination of this lease. No interest or penalties shall accrue on
any amounts which Landlord is obligated to credit or pay to Tenant by reason of this
Section 5 unless any amount required to be paid to Tenant is not paid when due under this

7

Section 5, in which case such amount shall bear interest from the due date at the Default
Rate.

(f) 
  No Decrease in Base Rent   .  In no event shall any Additional Rent result
in a decrease of the Base Rent payable hereunder.

(g) 
  No Representation or Warranty   .  Exhibit D attached hereto sets forth
information about the amounts of Taxes and Expenses for the years indicated therein
which
was furnished to Landlord by the predecessor owner and manager of the Project. Tenant
acknowledges, however, that neither Landlord, nor any of its
respective agents or employees, has made or does hereby make any representation or warranty whatsoever to
Tenant as to the amount of Taxes, Expenses, Tax Adjustment or Expense Adjustment or
any component thereof for prior years or which may become payable during the Term.

6.    USE
OF PREMISES   . 

(a)    Use   .  Tenant shall use and occupy the Premises as set forth in Section l(r) hereof
only and for no other use or purpose.

(b)    Compliance
with Requirements   .  Tenant shall comply with all applicable Laws
(hereinafter defined) now or hereafter in force, and with all applicable insurance
underwriters
regulations and other requirements, respecting all matters of occupancy, condition or
maintenance
of the Premises, whether any of the foregoing shall be directed to Tenant or Landlord and
whether
imposed on the owner or occupant of the Premises.
  Laws   means all statutes, laws, ordinances,
codes, rules and regulations, orders and directions of public
officials or other acts having
the force
or effect of law, of all federal, state, county, municipal and other agencies, authorities or
bodies
having jurisdiction over the Premises. Notwithstanding the foregoing, but subject to the
provisions of Section 9(f) below regarding the ADA (as defined therein), Tenant shall not be
obligated to make any structural alterations to the Building if similar alterations will be
required
to be made in the Building as a whole, as distinguished from alterations made necessary by
Tenant s particular use of the Premises or required to be made to, or made necessary by,
Tenant
Alterations; provided, however, that the cost of any such alterations made by Landlord may be
included in Expenses except for capital alterations which are required under governmental
laws,
regulations, or ordinances applicable to the Building as of the date of this lease and to the
extent
otherwise excluded from Expenses by this lease.

Tenant shall not make or permit any use of the Premises or the Building, or do or permit to
be done anything in or upon the Premises or the Building, or bring or keep anything in the
Premises or the Building, which directly or indirectly is forbidden by any of the foregoing or
which may be dangerous to persons or property, or which may invalidate or increase the rate of
insurance on the Building above the standard risk for tenants of first-class office buildings, its

8

appurtenances, contents or operations, or which would tend to create or continue a nuisance or
which is contrary to or prohibited by the terms and conditions of this lease.

7.    TENANT IMPROVEMENTS  . Subject to Landlord s obligations with respect to
the Landlord s Work, Tenant shall, at its sole cost and expense (subject to application of the
allowances provided for in the Workletter), perform such work  ( Tenant s Work )  as may be
necessary or desired by Tenant to improve the Premises for occupancy, all subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of this lease and the Workletter.

8.    SERVICES  .

(a)   General Description of Services  . So long as this lease is in full
force and effect, Landlord shall furnish the following services (the cost of which may be included
in Expenses):

(i) Air conditioning and heat when necessary to provide a temperature condition
required, in Landlord s reasonable judgment, for comfortable occupancy of the Premises
under normal business operations, Monday through Friday from 8:00 A.M to 6:00 P.M. and
Saturdays from 8:00 A.M to 1:00 P.M. Holidays excepted. The design specifications for the
Building air conditioning and heating system servicing the Premises under the design loads
for such system are set forth in the Description of Base Building Work attached to the
Workletter as Attachment 1. Levels of heating and air conditioning are subject to
adjustments pursuant to compliance by Landlord with Laws and governmental guidelines
relating to energy use.

(ii) Domestic water in common with other tenants for drinking, lavatory and toilet
purposes drawn through fixtures installed by Landlord within the core of the Building, and
warm water in common with other tenants for lavatory purposes and for ordinary office
kitchen purposes from the same regular Building supply and fixtures.

(iii) Customary janitor and cleaning service in and about the Premises and common
areas of the Building in accordance with the specifications attached hereto as Exhibit E.
Tenant shall not provide or use any other janitor or cleaning service.

(iv) Passenger elevator service in common with Landlord and other persons, Monday
through Friday from 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. (Saturdays from 8:00 A;M. to 1:00 P.M.), Sundays
and Holidays excepted; and freight elevator service in common, with Landlord and other
persons, and subject to prior scheduling with Landlord, Monday through Friday from 8:00
A.M. to 4:00 P.M., Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays excepted. Limited passenger elevator
service shall be provided daily at all times when the aforesaid passenger elevator service
is not furnished.

9

(v) Without limitation of Item 3 of Attachment 2 to the Workletter, security at
a level consistent with that provided by comparable first-class office buildings in
downtown Chicago, Illinois.

(b)   Electricity   .  Except as hereinafter provided, electricity shall not be furnished
by
Landlord, but shall be furnished by Commonwealth Edison Company or another electric utility
company serving the area selected by Landlord. Landlord shall permit Tenant to receive such
service direct from such utility company at Tenant s cost, and shall permit Landlord s wire
and
conduits, to the extent available, suitable and safely capable, to be used for such
purposes. The
capacity of the electrical service to the Premises is set forth in the Description of Base
Building
Work attached to the Workletter as Attachment 1. Tenant shall make all necessary
arrangements
with the utility company for metering and paying for electric current furnished by it to
Tenant,
and Tenant shall pay for all charges for electric current consumed on the Premises during
Tenant s
occupancy thereof. Tenant shall make no alterations or additions to the electric equipment
or
systems in the Premises or the Building without the prior written consent of Landlord in
each
instance. Tenant also agrees to purchase from Landlord or its agents, as Landlord shall
direct,
all lamps, bulbs, ballasts and starters used in the Premises during the Term. Tenant
covenants
and agrees that at all times its use of electric current shall never exceed the capacity
referred to
above. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord reserves the right to provide electricity to
the
Premises in whole or in part, and in such event Tenant agrees to purchase such electricity
from
Landlord, at Landlord s then current charges at rates which shall not exceed the rates for
such
service charged to tenants of the Building leasing space comparable in size to the space
leased by
Tenant. If the Premises are not separately metered for any reason, or are separately metered
only
in part, then Tenant shall pay Landlord, as additional Rent, in monthly installments at the
time
prescribed for monthly installments of Monthly Base Rent, amounts determined by Landlord
based
upon Landlord s then established rates therefor, which shall not exceed the rates for such
service
charged to tenants of the Building leasing space in size comparable in size to the space
leased by
Tenant.

(c)   Telephone .  All telegraph, telephone, and electric connections which Tenant may
desire shall be first approved by Landlord in writing, before the same are installed, and
the
location of all wires and the work in connection therewith shall be performed by contractors
approved by Landlord, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, and shall be
subject
to the reasonable direction of Landlord. Landlord reserves the right to designate and
control the
entity or entities providing telephone or other communication cable installation, repair and
maintenance in the Building and to restrict and control access to
telephone cabinets. In the event landlord designates a particular
vendor or vendors to provide such cable installation, repair and
maintenance for the Building, Tenant agrees to abide by and participate in such program,
provided
that the rates for such installation, repair and maintenance are commercially reasonable in
view
of similar programs in comparable buildings. Tenant shall be responsible for and shall pay
all
costs incurred in connection with the installation of telephone cables and related wiring in
the
Premises, including, without limitation, any hook-up, access and maintenance fees related to
the

10

installation of such wires and cables in the Premises and the commencement of service therein, and
the maintenance thereafter of such wire and cables; and there shall be included in Expenses for
the Building all installation, hook-up or maintenance costs incurred by Landlord in connection
with telephone cables and related wiring in the Building which are not allocable to any individual
users of such service but are allocable to the Building generally. If Tenant fails to maintain all
telephone cables and related wiring in the Premises and such failure affects or interferes with
the operation or maintenance of any other telephone cables or related wiring in the Building,
Landlord or any vendor hired by Landlord may, if such failure is not cured upon reasonable prior
notice to Tenant (except in the case of an emergency, where no notice shall be required), enter
into and upon the Premises and perform such repairs, restorations or alterations as Landlord deems
necessary in order to eliminate any such interference (and Landlord may recover from Tenant all of
Landlord s costs in connection therewith and Landlord shall have no liability to Tenant by reason
thereof). Upon the Expiration Date, Tenant agrees to remove all telephone cables and related
wiring installed by Tenant for and during Tenant s occupancy, which Landlord shall request Tenant
to remove. Tenant agrees that neither Landlord nor any of its agents or employees shall be liable
to Tenant, or any of Tenant s employees, agents customers or invitees or anyone claiming through,
by or under Tenant, for any damages, injuries, losses, expenses, claims or causes of action
because of any interruption, diminution, delay or discontinuance at any time for any reason in the
furnishing of any telephone service to the Premises and the Building.

(d)   Extra or Additional Services  . Tenant may request Landlord to provide services
which are extra or additional services to those described in Section 8(a), by advance request
to
Landlord. If Landlord shall agree to so provide any such services which are extra or in
addition
to those services described in Section 8(a), Tenant shall pay for any such extra or additional
services so provided by Landlord at Landlord s established rates therefor from time to time,
or
if there are no established rates, then at the rate of 115% (or, with respect to after-hours
HVAC,-
at the rate of 100%) of the cost of providing such service, or as otherwise agreed by Landlord
and
Tenant. Landlord s current rates for after-hours HVAC are $70.50 per hour for ventilation
only,
$139.16 per hour for heating (perimeter) and ventilation, and $167.69 per hour for air
conditioning and ventilation. All charges for any such extra or additional services so
provided
by Landlord shall be deemed to be additional Rent hereunder and shall be due and payable
within
ten (10) days after Tenant receives Landlord s bill therefor, or in installments as may be
designated by Landlord to Tenant in writing. If Tenant fails to pay when due Landlord s proper
charges for any such extra or additional services, Landlord shall have the right, in addition
to all
other rights and remedies available to Landlord, to discontinue furnishing any such extra or
additional services for which Tenant has failed to pay. If Landlord discontinues any such
extra
or additional services as provided in this Section 8(d), no such discontinuance shall be
deemed an
eviction or disturbance of Tenant s use of the Premises or render Landlord liable for damages
or
relieve Tenant from performance of Tenant s obligations under this lease.

(e)   Holidays  . For purposes of this Section 8,  Holidays  means New Year s Day,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and any other

11

day customarily designated as a holiday by landlords operating first-class office buildings in
downtown Chicago, Illinois.

(f)   Interruption of Services.   Tenant agrees that neither Landlord, nor any of
Landlord s constituent members, nor any of their respective agents, partners or employees,
shall
be liable for damage or injury to person, property or business or for loss or interruption of
business, or for any other matter, in the event there is any failure, delay, interruption or
diminution in furnishing any service. No such failure, delay, interruption or diminution shall
be
deemed to constitute an eviction or disturbance of Tenant s use or possession of the Premises,
in
whole or in part, actual or constructive, nor entitle Tenant to any claim for set-off,
abatement or
reduction of Rent, nor render Landlord liable for damages, nor relieve Tenant from the
performance of or affect any of Tenant s obligations under this lease. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if due to Landlord s wrongful act or omission services described in Sections
8(a)(i),
(ii) (limited to water supplied to base building washrooms) and (iv) and 8(b) above are
interrupted,
so that Tenant is not able and actually ceases to conduct any business activities in the
Premises
for a period of five (5) consecutive business days, Base Rent and Additional Rent shall abate
as
of the sixth (6th) consecutive business day and thereafter until such time as service is
restored so
that Tenant is able to or actually resumes occupancy of the Premises for any of its customary
business activities.

Landlord shall use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize any failure, delay,
interruption or diminution in furnishing any service.

(g)   Tenant s Cooperation.   Tenant agrees to cooperate fully with Landlord, at all
times, in abiding by reasonable regulations and requirements which Landlord may prescribe for
the proper functioning and protection of all utilities and services reasonably necessary for
the
operation of the Premises or the Project. Landlord and its contractors shall have free access,
upon
reasonable prior notice (except in an emergency, where no notice shall be required), to any
and
all mechanical installations in the Premises, and Tenant agrees that there shall be no
construction
of partitions or other obstructions which might interfere with the moving of the servicing
equipment of Landlord to or from the enclosures containing said installations. Tenant further
agrees that neither Tenant nor its employees, agents or contractors shall at any time tamper
with,
adjust or otherwise in any manner adversely affect Landlord s mechanical installations in the
Premises or the Project.

(h)  Supplemental Heating or Cooling.  Whenever, in Landlord s reasonable judgment, Tenant s
use or occupation of the Premises, including lighting, personnel, heat generating machines or
equipment, or airborne emissions of smoke or other particulates, individually or cumulatively,
causes the design loads for the system providing heat and air-cooling to be exceeded, or otherwise
affects adversely the temperature, humidity or air quality otherwise maintained by the heating,
ventilating and air handling or conditioning system in the Premises or the Building, and Tenant
fails to cure such effect by adjusting Tenant s loads or installing supple-

12

mentary heating or air handling or conditioning units within fifteen (15) days after notice from
Landlord, Landlord may, but shall not be obligated to, temper such excess loads by installing
supplementary heating or air handling or conditioning units in the Premises or elsewhere where
necessary. In such event, the cost of such units and the expense of installation, including without
limitation, the cost of preparing working drawings and specifications, plus ten percent (10%) of
the cost of such units and of the hard costs of installation as an overhead and supervision fee if
such cost and hard costs are less than $100,000.00 in any instance and five percent (5%) of the
cost of such units and of the hard costs of installation as an overhead and supervision fee if such
cost and hard costs are $100,000.00 or more, shall be paid by Tenant as additional Rent within ten
(10) days after Landlord s demand therefor. Alternatively, Landlord may require Tenant to install
such supplementary heating or air handling or conditioning units at Tenant s sole expense. Landlord
may operate and maintain any such supplementary units, but shall have no continuing obligation to
do so or liability in connection therewith. The expense resulting from the operation and
maintenance of any such supplementary heating or air handling or conditioning units, including
utility charges, charges for condenser water, repair costs, labor costs and rent for space occupied
by any supplementary heating or air handling or conditioning units installed in Rentable Area
outside the Premises, shall be paid by Tenant to Landlord as additional rent at rates fixed by
Landlord, which shall be, for condenser water, actual tap fees incurred plus $98.65 per ton of
supplemental cooling capacity per year, subject to adjustment to reflect changes in costs of
supplying condenser water. Alternatively, Landlord may require Tenant to operate and maintain any
such supplementary units, also at Tenant s sole expense.

9.    CONDITION
  AND CARE OF PREMISES   . 

(a)  Condition
of Premises   .  Tenant s taking possession of the Premises or any portion
thereof shall be conclusive evidence against Tenant that such portion of the Premises was then
in
good order and satisfactory condition, subject to completion of the Base Building Work and to
latent defects in any Base Building Work of which Tenant gives Landlord notice within one (1)
year after substantial completion of such Base Building Work, and also subject to Landlord s
obligations under this lease. Tenant acknowledges that, except as expressly set forth herein
and
in the Workletter, the Premises shall be accepted by Tenant in their  as-is  condition, and
that no
promise by or on behalf of Landlord, any of Landlord s constituent members, the leasing agent
of the Project or any of their respective agents, partners or employees, to alter, remodel,
improve,
repair, decorate or clean the Premises has been made to or relied
upon by Tenant, and that no representation respecting the condition of the Premises or the Project by or on behalf of
Landlord,
its constituent members, or any of their respective agents, partners or employees has been
made
to or relied upon by Tenant, except to the extent expressly set forth in this lease or in the
Workletter.

(b)  Tenant s
Repairs   .  Subject to the provisions regarding fire and other casualty
losses set forth in Section 17 hereof, Tenant, at its expense, shall (i) keep the Premises
(including
all Landlord s Work and Tenant Alterations) in good order, repair and condition at all times

13

during the Term, and (ii) promptly and adequately repair all damage to the Premises, including
damage to interior windows and to any portion of the Building air conditioning, heating, electrical
and plumbing systems which run through the Premises and which serve the Premises, caused by Tenant
or its contractors, agents, employees or invitees. Tenant shall give prompt notice to Landlord of
any material repair, maintenance or replacement items required under this Section 9(b). All work
with respect to any such maintenance, repair or replacement shall be performed within a reasonable
period after the need for such action arises and shall be subject to the provisions of Section 14
hereof. If Tenant fails to perform such work within a reasonable period and such failure continues
for thirty (30) days after written notice to Tenant from Landlord (except in the case of an
emergency, when no such notice or cure period shall be required), Landlord may, in its sole
discretion, elect to effect such repairs whether or not Tenant would otherwise be prepared to do
so, and, in such case, Tenant shall pay Landlord the cost thereof plus a coordination and
management fee equal to ten percent (10%) of such cost, upon Landlord s written demand.

(c)   Landlord s Repairs  . Subject to the provisions regarding fire and other
casualty losses set forth in Section 17 hereof, Landlord shall (i) keep the foundations, roofs,
exterior walls, and the structural elements of the Building, and the public areas in the Building,
exclusive of the Premises and other tenant spaces occupied by or under the control of tenants, in
good order, .repair and condition at all times during the Term, and (ii) keep in good order,
condition and repair all outside windows of the Premises and the electrical, plumbing, heating,
ventilating and air conditioning systems servicing the Premises (other than as set forth in
Section 9(b) above). Notwithstanding the foregoing, (A) Landlord shall not be responsible for the
maintenance or repair of any floor or wall coverings in the Premises or any of such systems which
are located within the Premises and are supplemental or special to the Building s standard systems
which are located within the Premises and are supplemental or special to the Building s standard
systems; and (B) subject to the provisions of Sections 16(a) and 22(b) below, the cost of
performing any of said maintenance or repairs, whether to the Premises or to the Building, caused
by the negligence of Tenant, its employees, agents, servants, subtenants or contractors, shall be
paid by Tenant immediately upon Landlord s demand therefor. Upon reasonable prior notice (except
in the case of an emergency, where no such notice Shall be required), and so long as Landlord uses
good faith efforts to maintain reasonable access to the Premises, minimize unreasonable
interference with the conduct of Tenant s business, and avoid any permanent material adverse
affect on the appearance of the Premises, and subject to the restrictions contained in Section
13(n) below, Landlord may, but shall not be required to, enter the Premises at all reasonable
times to make repairs, alterations, improvements and additions to the Premises as Landlord shall
deem necessary; to make repairs, alterations, improvements and additions to the Building or to any
equipment located in the Building as Landlord shall deem necessary or reasonably deem desirable; and to
make repairs, alterations, improvements and additions to the Premises, the Building or such
equipment as Landlord may be required to make by governmental authority or court order or decree.

14

(d)    No Rights to Light. Air or View.   This lease does not grant any rights to
light, air or view over or about the real property of Landlord or any other real property. Landlord
specifically excepts and reserves to itself all rights to and the use of any roofs, the exterior
portions of the Premises, the land, improvements and air and other rights below the improved floor
level of the Premises, the improvements and air and other rights above the improved ceiling of
Premises, the improvements and air and other rights located outside the demising walls of the
Premises and, subject to the restrictions contained in Section 13(n) below, such areas within the
Premises as are required for installation of utility lines and other installations required to
serve the Building or any occupants of the Building, and Landlord specifically reserves to itself
the right to use, maintain and repair same, and no rights with respect thereto are conferred upon
Tenant, unless otherwise specifically provided herein.

(e)    Hazardous Substances.   Tenant shall comply, at its sole expense, with all Laws
relating to the protection of public health, safety and welfare and with all environmental Laws in
the use, occupancy and operation of the Premises. Tenant agrees that no Hazardous Substances (as
hereinafter defined) shall be used, located, stored or processed on the Premises or be brought
into the Building by Tenant except for (i) minor quantities of cleaning materials customary for
office use and (ii) aerosol glue in quantities which are both safe and reasonably necessary for
Tenant s normal use in its production room, provided that the foregoing are handled, stored and
disposed of in compliance with all applicable Laws, and subject to the provisions of Section 6 of
this Lease. Tenant further agrees that no Hazardous Substances will be released or discharged from
the Premises (including, but not limited to, ground water contamination), except that aerosol glue
shall be vented directly from Tenant s production room to the extent required by Law or by
Landlord, and to the extent permitted by Law, by means of a venting system installed as part of
the Tenant s Work under the Workletter or pursuant to Section 14 of this Lease. The term
 Hazardous Substances  shall mean and include all hazardous and toxic substances, waste or
materials, any pollutant or contaminant, including, without limitation, PCB s, asbestos and raw
materials that include hazardous constituents or any other similar substances or materials that
are now or hereafter included under or regulated by any environmental Laws or that would pose a
health, safety or environmental hazard. In the event that Tenant is notified of any investigation
or violation of any environmental Law arising from Tenant s activities at the Premises, Tenant
shall immediately deliver to Landlord a copy of such notice. In such event or in the event
Landlord reasonably believes that a violation of environmental Law arising from Tenant s
activities exists, Landlord may conduct such tests and studies relating to compliance by Tenant
with environmental Laws or the alleged presence of Hazardous Substances upon the Premises as
Landlord deems desirable, all of which shall be completed at Tenant s expense. Landlord s
inspection and testing rights are for Landlord s own protection only, and Landlord has not, and
shall not be deemed to have assumed any responsibility to Tenant or any other party for compliance
with environmental Laws, as a result of the exercise, or non-exercise of such rights. Tenant shall
indemnify, defend, protect and hold harmless Landlord, its constituent members, and their
respective officers, directors, members, partners, agents, employees, successors and assigns
(collectively, the  Landlord Parties ), from and against any and all loss, claim, expense,
liability

15

and cost (including attorneys  fees) arising out of or in any way related to the presence of any
Hazardous Substance introduced to the Premises during the Term by Tenant or its employees, agents,
servants, subtenants or contractors.

Landlord agrees, as to any Hazardous Substances (as now defined) existing in the Premises on
the date hereof, to remove or otherwise remediate such Hazardous Substances if and to the extent
required by law, at Landlord s sole cost and expense.

(f)    Americans
with Disabilities Act .  Landlord and Tenant acknowledge that the
Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C  12101 et seq.) and regulations and guidelines
promulgated thereunder, as all of the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time
(collectively referred to herein as the   ADA  ) establish requirements for business operations,
accessibility and barrier removal, and that such requirements may or may not apply to the Premises
and the Building depending on, among other things: (1) whether Tenant s business is deemed a
  public accommodation   or   commercial
facility  , (2) whether such requirements are   readily
achievable  , and (3).whether a given alteration affects a
primary function area or triggers   path
of travel   requirements. The parties hereby agree that: (a) Landlord shall be responsible for ADA
Title III compliance in the common areas of the Building, except as provided below, (b) Tenant
shall be responsible for ADA Title III compliance in the Premises, including any leasehold
improvements or other work to be performed in the Premises under or in connection with this lease,
and (c) Landlord may perform, or require that Tenant perform, and Tenant shall be responsible for
the cost of, ADA Title HI   path of travel   requirements triggered by alterations in the Premises.
Tenant shall be solely responsible for requirements under Title I of the ADA relating to Tenant s
employees.

10.    SURRENDER OF PREMISES   . 

(a)    Surrender .  Upon the termination of this lease by lapse of time or otherwise
or upon the earlier termination of Tenant s right of possession, Tenant shall surrender
possession of
the Premises to Landlord and deliver all keys, computer cards or codes and other entry devices
to the Premises to Landlord and make known to Landlord the combinations of all locks of vaults
then remaining in the Premises, and shall, subject to the following subparagraphs, return the
Premises and all equipment and fixtures of Landlord therein to Landlord in as good condition
as
when Tenant originally took possession, except for ordinary wear and tear, and except for loss
or damage by fire or other casualty or condemnation, failing which Landlord may restore the
Premises and such equipment and fixtures to such condition, and Tenant shall pay the cost
thereof
to Landlord on demand.

(b)    Ownership
of Improvements .  All installations, additions, partitions, hardware,
fixtures and improvements, temporary or permanent (including Tenant Alterations), except
movable furniture and equipment and other personal property or trade fixtures belonging to
Tenant, and except as may be otherwise agreed by Landlord and Tenant pursuant to the

16

Workletter, in or upon the Premises, whether placed there by Tenant or Landlord, shall, upon the
termination of this lease by lapse of time or otherwise or upon the earlier termination of Tenant s
right of possession, become Landlord s property and shall remain upon the Premises, all without
compensation, allowance or credit to Tenant; provided, however, that if at the time Landlord
consents to Tenant s installation of Tenant Alterations or other installations, additions,
partitions, hardware, fixtures and improvements or at any other time prior to termination of this
lease or Tenant s right to possession, Landlord requires or agrees to permit removal of the same
upon termination, then Tenant, at Tenant s sole cost and expense, upon termination of this lease by
lapse of time or otherwise or upon the earlier termination of Tenant s right of possession, shall
promptly remove such designated items, and Tenant shall thereafter repair any damage to the
Premises or the Project caused by such removal, failing which Landlord may remove the same and
repair the Premises or the Project, as the case may be, and Tenant shall pay the cost thereof to
Landlord on written demand. Without limitation of the foregoing, if any of the Tenant Alterations
involved the lowering of ceilings, raising of floors or the installation of specialized wall or
floor coverings or lights, then Tenant, at Landlord s request, shall also be obligated to return
such surfaces to their condition prior to the commencement of this lease. Further, at Landlord s
request, Tenant shall be required to close any staircases or other openings between floors within
the Premises. Tenant s failure to perform the work described in the preceding sentences on or
before the expiration or earlier termination of this lease or Tenant s right of possession
hereunder, shall, without limitation on other rights or remedies available to Landlord, give rise
to the right of Landlord to perform such work, and Tenant shall pay the costs thereof to Landlord
on written demand. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, Tenant shall not be required to remove any
Tenant s Work performed pursuant to the Workletter. Furthermore, Tenant shall not be required to
remove the existing staircases between floors of the Premises if this lease expires as to the
portion of the Premises in which such staircases are located by lapse of time, without earlier
termination of this lease or Tenant s right of possession as to such portion of the Premises or any
other termination of this lease as to all or such portion of the Premises prior to the stated
expiration of the Term.

(c)    Removal of Personal Property.   Upon the termination of this lease by lapse of time
or otherwise or upon the earlier termination of Tenant s right of possession, Tenant shall remove
from the Premises Tenant s furniture, machinery, safes and other items of movable personal
property of every kind and description and Tenant s trade fixtures, and Tenant shall restore any
damage to the Premises or the Project caused thereby (such removal and restoration to be performed
prior to the expiration of the Term and prior to or immediately following any earlier termination
of this lease or Tenant s right of possession), failing which Landlord may do so and thereupon the
provisions of Section 19(f) shall apply; provided, however, if this lease or Tenant s possession
terminates prior to the originally stated Expiration Date, Tenant may not, without Landlord s
prior written consent, remove any of its furniture, trade fixtures or other personal property for
which Landlord paid or gave Tenant an allowance, in whole or in part, in which case, at Landlord s
election, such property shall be deemed to have been conveyed to Landlord as by bill of sale
without further payment or credit by Landlord to Tenant.

17

(d)    Survival.   Without limitation of any other obligations of Tenant which shall
survive
the expiration or termination of this lease, all obligations of Tenant under this Section 10
shall
survive the expiration or earlier termination of this lease.

11.    HOLDING OVER.   If Tenant retains possession of the Premises or any part
thereof after the termination of the lease by lapse of time or otherwise or after the earlier
termination of Tenant s right of possession, Tenant shall pay to Landlord as Rent during such
holdover period an amount equal to 150% of the Rent (based on the Base Rent plus the most
current Additional Rent Estimate for the entire Premises) on a per diem basis. In addition to
and without limiting any other rights and remedies which Landlord may have on account of such
holding over by Tenant, Tenant shall indemnify Landlord from and against any and all direct
and
consequential damages suffered by Landlord on account of such holding over by Tenant,
including
any damages and claims by tenants entitled to future possession. No occupancy by Tenant after
the expiration or other termination of this lease shall be construed to extend the Term. The
provisions of this Section 11 shall not be deemed to limit or constitute a waiver of any
rights or
remedies of Landlord as provided herein or at law or equity.

12.    RULES AND REGULATIONS.   Tenant agrees to observe and not to interfere
with the rights reserved to Landlord contained in Section 13 hereof and elsewhere in this
lease and
agrees, for itself, its employees, agents and contractors, to accept and comply with the rules
and
regulations set forth in Exhibit F attached to this lease, and elsewhere in this lease, and
such other
rules and regulations as may be adopted from time to time by Landlord for the Building
pursuant
to Section 13(o) or any other Section of this lease, and to use reasonable efforts to cause
its
invitees to comply with such rules and regulations. The rules and regulations in Exhibit F and
all other rules and regulations made in accordance with this lease are intended and shall be
construed to supplement and not limit or restrict in any way any of Landlord s rights or
Tenant s
obligations contained in Section 13 or any other Section of this lease. Nothing contained in
this
lease shall be construed to impose upon Landlord any duty or obligation to enforce any of said
rules and regulations or the terms, covenants or conditions of any other lease against any
other
tenant or any other person. Landlord shall not, however, discriminatorily enforce against
Tenant
rules and regulations applicable to office tenants of the Building generally.

13.    RIGHTS RESERVED TO LANDLORD.   Landlord reserves and shall have the
following rights, each of which shall, unless expressly provided otherwise, be exercisable
without
notice and without liability of Landlord, its constituent members, or any of their respective
agents,
partners or employees, to Tenant for damage or injury to property, person or business or for
loss
or interruption of business, or for any other matter, and without effecting an eviction or
disturbance of Tenant s use or possession, in whole or in part, actual or constructive, or
giving
rise or entitling Tenant to any claim for set-off, abatement or reduction of Rent or relieving
Tenant from the performance of or affecting any of Tenant s obligations under this lease:

18

(a) To change the name or, upon not less than sixty (60) days  notice, the street
address of the Building; provided that if Landlord voluntarily changes the Building s
street
address it shall reimburse Tenant for any reasonable printing costs incurred by Tenant
to
replace obsolete stationery and business cards;

(b) To install and maintain or remove signs on the exterior and interior of the
Building and the Project.

(c) To prescribe the location and style of the suite number and identification
sign or lettering for the Premises.

(d) To retain at all times, and to use in appropriate instances, pass keys and
other entry devices for all doors into and within the Premises; provided, however, that
Tenant may from time to time designate limited areas of the Premises as secured areas
to
which Landlord shall not have access except in emergencies and except as otherwise
hereinafter provided. Landlord shall not be required to supply janitor service or other
routine maintenance services to any such secured areas. In an emergency, Landlord,
Building service personnel or other emergency personnel may immediately use self-help
measures, including force, to gain access to any such secured areas, and the expense of
repair of any damage caused thereby shall be borne by Tenant, subject to the provisions
of Section 16 below. Tenant shall, upon reasonable verbal notice from Landlord, and in
the company of an employee of Tenant if Tenant so requires, allow Landlord access to
secured areas for the purposes referred to in Sections 13(f) and (i) below.

(e) To grant to anyone the right to conduct any business or render any service
in any part of the Project.

(f) To enter the Premises for supplying janitor service or other services to be
provided to Tenant hereunder, or in the exercise of Landlord s rights hereunder, and
upon
reasonable prior notice (except for routine services to be performed by Landlord
hereunder, or where this lease otherwise permits entry without notice or in the event
of
an emergency, in which case immediate entry shall be permitted) for other reasonable
purposes.

(g) To require all persons entering or leaving the Project or any part thereof
during such non-business hours as Landlord may from time to time reasonably determine
to identify themselves to security personnel by registration or otherwise and to
establish
their right to enter or leave in accordance with Landlord s security controls. Landlord
shall not be liable in damages or otherwise for any error with respect to admission to
or
eviction or exclusion from the Project or any part thereof of any person.
Notwithstanding
anything contained herein to the contrary, in case of fire, casualty, invasion,
insurrection,
mob, riot, act of terrorism, civil disorder, public excitement or other commotion, or
threat

19

thereof, Landlord reserves the right to limit or prevent access to the Project or any
part thereof during the continuance of the same, halt elevator service, activate elevator
emergency controls, or otherwise take such action or preventive measures reasonably deemed
necessary by Landlord for the safety or security of the tenants or other occupants of the
Project or the protection of the Project and the property in or about the Project. Tenant
agrees to cooperate in any reasonable safety or security program developed by Landlord from
time to time.

(h) To control, restrict and prevent access to any areas of the Project, provided
that reasonable access to the Premises shall be maintained.

(i) To rearrange, relocate, enlarge, reduce or change corridors, exits,
elevators, stairs, lavatories, doors, entrances in or to the Building and to decorate and to
make repairs, alterations, additions and improvements, structural or otherwise, in or to the
Land or the Project or any part thereof, including the Premises, and any adjacent building,
land, street or alley, including for the purpose of connection with or entrance into or use
of the Land or the Project in conjunction with any adjoining or adjacent building or
buildings or pedestrian ways, now existing or hereafter constructed, provided that Landlord
uses good faith efforts to maintain reasonable access to the Premises, minimize unreasonable
interference with the conduct of Tenant s business, and avoid any permanent material adverse
affect on the appearance of the Premises. In that regard, Landlord may erect scaffolding
and other structures reasonably required by the character of the work to be performed, and
during such operations to enter upon the Premises upon reasonable prior notice and take into
and upon or through any part of the Project, including the Premises, all materials that may
be required to do such work or make such decorations, repairs, alterations, improvements or
additions, and in connection with any of the foregoing, to close public entryways, other
public spaces, stairways or corridors and interrupt or temporarily suspend any services or
facilities agreed to be furnished by Landlord. Landlord may at its option do any such work
and make any such decorations, repairs, alterations, improvements and additions in and about
the Project and the Premises during ordinary business hours, so long as Landlord shall use
reasonable efforts in any entry to the Premises not to unreasonably disturb Tenant s
occupancy during business hours of the Building.

(j) To establish reasonable controls for the purpose of regulating all property and
packages to be taken into or removed from the Building and Premises.

(k) To reasonably regulate delivery of supplies and services in order to ensure the
cleanliness and security of the Project and to avoid congestion of the loading docks,
receiving areas and freight elevators.

20

(l) To approve the weight, size and location of safes, vaults, books, files and
other heavy equipment and articles in and about the Premises and the Building so as not to
exceed the design live load per square foot designated by the structural engineers for the
Building, and to require all such items and furniture and similar items to be moved into or
out of the Building and Premises only at such times and in such manner as Landlord shall
direct in writing. Tenant shall not install or operate machinery or any mechanical devises
of a nature not directly related to Tenant s ordinary use of the Premises without the prior
written consent of Landlord.

(m) To show the Premises to prospective tenants at reasonable hours during the last
twelve (12) months of the Term or to prospective mortgagees, ground lessors or purchasers
of the Land or Building or both at any time.

(n) To erect, use and maintain concealed pipes, ducts, wiring and conduits, and
appurtenances thereto, in and through the Premises in walls, below the floor and above the
suspended ceiling.

(o) From time to time to make and adopt such rules and regulations, in addition to or
as an amendment to rules and regulations contained in Exhibit F attached to this lease or
other Sections of this lease, or adopted pursuant to this or other Sections of this lease,
for the use, entry, operation or management of the Premises or the Project or for the
protection or welfare of the Project or its tenants or occupants, or any property therein,
as Landlord may reasonably determine, and Tenant agrees to accept, abide by and comply with
all such rules and regulations.

(p) To designate and/or approve, prior to installation, all types of window shades,
blinds, drapes, awnings or other similar items, and all internal lighting that may be
visible from the exterior of the Premises.

(q) To have access to any mail chute and boxes located in or on the Premises as
required by any applicable rules of the Building or of the United States Post Office.

14.    ALTERATIONS . 

(a)    Consent;
Conditions .  Tenant shall not perform any Tenant Alterations
without first obtaining the prior written consent of Landlord. Without limitation on the
foregoing, Landlord may impose such conditions with respect to Tenant Alterations as Landlord
deems appropriate, including, without limitation, requiring Tenant to furnish to Landlord for its
approval prior to commencement of any work or entry by Tenant s contractors into the Premises or
the Building, security for the payment of all costs to be in connection with any such Tenant
Alterations (if reasonably deemed prudent by Landlord), insurance against liabilities which may

21

arise out of the Tenant Alterations and plans and specifications and permits necessary for
the Tenant Alterations.

Landlord agrees not to unreasonably withhold or delay its consent to any Tenant Alterations;
provided, however, that Landlord shall not be deemed to have acted unreasonably if it withholds its
consent because, in Landlord s opinion, such work: could adversely affect building systems, the
structure of the Building or the safety of its occupants; would increase Landlord s cost of
repairs, insurance or furnishing services or otherwise adversely affect Landlord s ability to
efficiently operate the Building or furnish services to Tenant or other tenants; involves toxic or
hazardous materials; could be costly or hazardous to remove or demolish; requires entry into
another tenant s premises or use of public areas; or is prohibited by any mortgage on the Building.
The foregoing reasons, however, shall not be exclusive of the reasons for which Landlord may
reasonably withhold consent, whether or not such other reasons are similar or dissimilar to the
foregoing.

In addition, Tenant may perform certain interior decorating or other non-structural
alterations to the Premises such as carpeting, painting (so long as the odors from the same do not
interfere with any other tenant s operations), hanging artwork or wall coverings, installing
furniture systems, or other similar interior decorating improvements, without obtaining Landlord s
consent therefor, but only if (i) such items do not affect the Building structure or systems, the
public areas of the Building or any other tenant space, (ii) the cost of such items does not
exceed, in any twelve-month period, $25,000.00 and (iii) Tenant gives prior written notice to
Landlord of such items, including a description of the contemplated work and the types of
materials being used, and subject to the remaining requirements of this Section except that
approval of plans and specifications shall not be required for interior decorating where plans and
specifications are not appropriate for the work to be performed.

(b)    Contractors.   Tenant Alterations shall be done at Tenant s expense by agents or
contractors hired by Tenant who are reasonably acceptable to Landlord and whose work will not
cause or threaten to cause disharmony or interference with Landlord or other tenants,
contractors
or service providers at the Building. Before employing any such contractors, Tenant shall
submit
to Landlord the names and addresses of such contractors.

(c)    Costs; Mechanic Liens.   Tenant shall promptly pay the cost, when due, of all
Tenant Alterations. In addition to the cost of such Tenant Alterations, Tenant shall also pay
to
Landlord or to its designated agent, as Landlord shall direct, an amount equal to ten percent
(10%) of the hard costs of Tenant Alterations when such hard costs are less than $100,000.00
in
any instance and five percent (5%) of the hard costs of Tenant Alterations when such hard
costs
are $100,000.00 or more, as a coordination and management fee allocable to the Tenant Alterations.
Upon completion of any Tenant Alterations, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord, if
payment
is made directly to contractors, evidence of payment, contractors  affidavits and full and
final
waivers of all liens for labor, services and materials sufficient to
waive all rights to liens
under

22

the Illinois Mechanic s Lien law arising or from the work done. Tenant shall not permit any
lien or claim for lien of any mechanic, labor or supplier or any other lien to be filed against the
Building, the Land or the Premises or any part thereof, arising out of any Tenant Alterations or
other work performed or alleged to be performed, by or at the direction of Tenant. If any such lien
or claim for lien is filed, Tenant shall, within ten (10) days of receiving notice of such lien or
claim, (i) have such lien or claim for lien released of record, (ii) cause Landlord s title insurer
to insure over such lien or claim for lien on each outstanding owner s and loan policy or (iii)
deliver to Landlord security in form, content, and amount satisfactory to Landlord relative to such
lien or claim for lien. Without limitation of the foregoing, Tenant shall indemnify, defend and
hold harmless, Landlord and the other Landlord Parties, from and against any such lien or claim for
lien, and the foreclosure or attempted foreclosure thereof. If Tenant fails to take the one of the
actions described in subclauses (i), (ii) or (iii) above, then Landlord, without investigating the
Validity of such lien or claim for lien, may pay or discharge the same, and Tenant shall, as
payment of additional Rent hereunder, reimburse Landlord upon demand for the payment so paid by
Landlord, including Landlord s expenses and attorneys  fees related thereto.

(d)    General .  Tenant agrees to indemnify, defend by counsel reasonably acceptable to
Landlord and hold Landlord and the other Landlord Parties, and the Project, harmless of, from and
against any and all losses, damages, liabilities, claims, liens; costs and expenses, including
without limitation court costs and reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses, arising in connection
with any Tenant Alterations. All Tenant Alterations done by Tenant or its contractors, including
work done pursuant to Section 9, shall be performed in a first class workerlike manner using only
good grades of materials and shall comply with all insurance requirements of Landlord and all
Laws. Within thirty (30) days after substantial completion of any Tenant Alterations by or on
behalf of Tenant, Tenant shall furnish to Landlord  as built  working drawings of such Tenant
Alterations. All Tenant Alterations shall be performed in accordance with Landlord s standard
construction rules and regulations for the Building. In no event shall any supervision or right to
supervise by Landlord, nor shall any approvals given by Landlord hereunder, constitute any
warranty by Landlord to Tenant of the adequacy of the design, workmanship or quality of the Tenant
Alterations, or impose any liability upon Landlord in connection with the performance of such
work.

15.    ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING.  

(a)    Prohibitions.   Tenant shall not, either prior or subsequent to the commencement of
the Term, (i) assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or encumber or subject to or permit
to exist Upon or be subjected to any lien or charge, this lease or any interest under it, (ii)
allow to exist or occur any transfer of or lien upon this lease or Tenant s interest herein by
operation of law, (iii) sublet the Premises or any part thereof, or (iv) permit the use or
occupancy of the Premises or any part thereof for any purpose not provided for under Section 6 of
this lease or by anyone other than Tenant and Tenant s employees. Landlord has the absolute right
to withhold its consent to any of such acts without giving any reason whatsoever, except as herein

23

expressly provided to the contrary in Section 15(d). In no event shall this lease be assigned or
assignable by voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy proceedings or otherwise, except as provided by
law, and in no event shall this lease or any rights or privileges hereunder be an asset of Tenant
under any bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization proceedings, except as provided by law. Any of
the foregoing performed or attempted in violation of the provisions of this Section shall be null
and void.

(b)    Continuing
Liability .  No assignment, subletting, use, occupancy, transfer or
encumbrance by Tenant shall operate to relieve Tenant from any covenant, liability or obligation
hereunder except to the extent, if any, expressly provided for in any such written consent of
Landlord to the foregoing, and none of the foregoing, and no consent to any of the foregoing,
shall be deemed to be a consent to or relieve Tenant from obtaining Landlord s consent to any
subsequent assignment, subletting, use, occupancy, transfer or encumbrance. Tenant shall pay all
of Landlord s reasonable costs, charges and expenses, including, without limitation, reasonable
attorneys  fees and expenses, incurred .in connection with any assignment, subletting, use,
occupancy, transfer or encumbrance made or requested by Tenant.

(c)
   Notice of Proposed Assignment or Sublease; Recapture .  Tenant shall, by notice in
writing, advise Landlord of its intention from, on and after a stated date (which shall not be
less than thirty (30) nor more than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of the giving of
Tenant s notice to Landlord) to assign this lease or sublet all or any part of the Premises for
the balance or any part of the Term, and, in such event, Landlord shall have the right, to be
exercised by giving written notice to Tenant within fifteen (15) days after its receipt of
Tenant s notice, (1) in the case of (A) an assignment of this Lease or (B) a subletting of space
which, when added to all prior sublettings of space which are still in effect, aggregates 15,000
square feet or more of Rentable Area, to terminate this lease with respect to the space described
in Tenant s notice as of the date stated in Tenant s notice for the commencement of the proposed
assignment or sublease, or (2) to consent or refuse to consent to the proposed assignment or
sublease, as described in Section 15(d) below. Tenant s notice shall include the name and address
of the proposed assignee or subtenant, a true and complete copy of the. proposed assignment or
sublease and sufficient information, as Landlord deems reasonably necessary, to permit Landlord to
determine (i) the financial responsibility and character and the nature of the business of the
proposed assignee or subtenant, and (ii) whether Landlord has the right under this lease to
withhold consent to the proposed assignment or sublease. If Tenant s notice covers all of the
Premises and if Landlord exercises its right to terminate this lease as to such space, then this
lease shall expire and end on the date stated in Tenant s notice for the commencement of the
proposed assignment or sublease as fully and completely as if that date had otherwise been the
Expiration Date. If, however, Tenant s notice covers less than all of the Premises, and if
Landlord exercises its right to terminate this lease with respect to such space described in
Tenant s notice, then as of the date stated in Tenant s notice for the commencement of the
proposed sublease, the Base Rent and Tenant s Proportionate Share shall be adjusted on the basis
of the number of square feet of

24

Rentable Area retained by Tenant, and this lease as so amended, shall continue thereafter in full
force and effect. Landlord shall pay the cost of separately demising any such space.

Notwithstanding any of the foregoing to the contrary, if Landlord notifies Tenant that
Landlord has elected to terminate this lease with respect to the space described in a notice from
Tenant regarding a prospective assignment or sublease transaction, as described in clause (1)
above, Tenant shall have the right, at its election, to rescind its earlier notice to Landlord
regarding such transaction, which rescission shall be exercised by notice to Landlord no later than
five (5) days following Tenant s receipt of Landlord s election (time being of the essence),
whereupon this lease shall continue in full force and effect, and Tenant s earlier notice to
Landlord of a desire to make the subject assignment or sublease shall be deemed null and void.

(d)    Grounds for Withholding Consent.   If Landlord, upon receiving Tenant s notice with
respect to any such space, does not exercise its right to terminate as aforesaid or is not
entitled to do so, Landlord will not unreasonably withhold or delay its consent to Tenant s
assignment of this lease or subletting the space covered by Tenant s notice. Landlord shall not be
deemed to have unreasonably withheld its consent to a proposed assignment of this lease or to a
proposed sublease of part or all of the Premises if its consent is withheld because: (i) any
monetary default or any other uncured Default by Tenant shall then exist (which shall no longer be
a basis for withholding consent if such default or Default is cured); (ii) any notice of
termination of this lease or termination of Tenant s right of possession shall have been given
under Section 19; (iii) either the portion of the Premises which Tenant proposes to sublease, or
the remaining portion of the Premises, or the means of ingress or egress to either the portion of
the Premises which Tenant proposes to sublease or the remaining portion of the Premises is of such
nature that it will violate any applicable Law, is of such accessibility, size or irregular shape
so as not to be suitable for normal renting purposes as space on a multi-tenant floor within the
Building; (iv) the proposed use of the Premises by the proposed assignee or subtenant does not
conform with the use set forth in Section 6 hereof, or will violate any applicable Law, will
impose any obligation upon Landlord or increase Landlord s obligations under or cost of compliance
with any Laws, or will violate any exclusive right Landlord has granted to any tenant of any part
of the Project; (v) in the reasonable judgment of Landlord the proposed assignee or subtenant is
of a character or is engaged in a business which would be deleterious to the reputation of the
Project, Landlord or any of the constituent members of Landlord; (vi) in the reasonable judgment
of Landlord, the proposed assignee or subtenant is not sufficiently financially responsible to
perform its obligations under the proposed assignment or sublease; (vii) the proposed assignee or
subtenant is a government (or subdivision or agency thereof); or (viii) the proposed assignee or
subtenant is an occupant of the Building and Landlord has space available and suitable for it;
provided, however, that the foregoing are merely examples of reasons for which Landlord may
withhold its consent and shall not be deemed exclusive of any permitted reasons for reasonably
withholding consent, whether similar or dissimilar to the foregoing examples, and Landlord may
consider all relevant factors in determining whether to give or withhold its consent. Tenant
agrees that all advertising by Tenant or on Tenant s behalf with respect to the assignment of this
lease or

25

subletting of any part of the Premises must be approved in writing by Landlord prior to
publication, which approval shall not apply to the quoted rent, and shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed.

(e)    Excess Rent Payment .  If Tenant (as Tenant or debtor-in-possession) shall assign
this lease or sublet the Premises, or any part thereof, at a rental or for other consideration
in
excess of the Rent or pro rata portion thereof due and payable by Tenant under this lease,
then
Tenant shall pay to Landlord as additional Rent one-half (1/2) of any such excess rent or
other
consideration immediately upon receipt under any such assignment or, in the case of a
sublease,
(i) on the later of the first day of each month during the term of any sublease, or the day of
receipt
from such subtenant, one-half (1/2) of the excess of all rent and other consideration paid by
the
subtenant for such month over the Rent then payable to Landlord pursuant to the provisions of
this
lease for said month (or if only a portion of the Premises is being sublet, one-half (1/2) of
the
excess of all rent and other consideration due from the subtenant for such month over the
portion
of the Rent then payable to Landlord pursuant to the provisions of this lease for said month
which
is allocable on a Rentable Area basis to the space sublet), and (ii) immediately upon the
receipt
thereof, one-half (1/2) of any other consideration realized by Tenant from such subletting.
Landlord shall not be responsible for any deficiency if Tenant shall assign this lease or
sublet the
Premises or any part thereof at a rental less than that provided for herein. Whenever
reference
is made to the  excess  of rent or other consideration, such excess shall be reduced by
charging
against the rent or other consideration paid by such assignee or subtenant, reasonable
brokerage
commissions and leasehold improvements which Tenant has paid in connection with assigning the
lease or subleasing the applicable portion of the Premises. Amounts received by Tenant
representing the reasonable value of assets other than this lease (such as personal property
and
trade fixtures) sold in conjunction with an assignment or sublease shall not be taken into
account
as consideration paid for the assignment or sublease.

(f)    Lease Assumption; Subtenant Attornment .  If Tenant shall assign this lease, the
assignee shall expressly assume all of the obligations of Tenant thereafter accruing hereunder
in
a written instrument provided by Landlord and delivered to Landlord not later than ten (10)
days
prior to the effective date of the assignment. If Tenant shall sublease any part of the
Premises,
Tenant shall obtain and furnish to Landlord, not later than ten (10) days prior to the
effective date
of such sublease and in form reasonably satisfactory to Landlord, the written agreement of
such
subtenant to the effect that the subtenant will attorn to Landlord, at Landlord s option and
written
request (at Landlord s sole election), on the terms and conditions of the sublease if this
lease
terminates before the expiration of the sublease, provided that (if Landlord makes such
election)
at the time of such attornment Landlord agrees to recognize and be bound by the terms of such
sublease. Tenant shall, not later than fifteen (15) days after the effective date of any
such
assignment or sublease, deliver to Landlord a certified copy of the instrument of assignment
or
sublease.

26

(g)    Corporation, Partnership and Limited Liability Company Transfers.   If Tenant is a
corporation, any transaction or series of transactions (including without limitation any
dissolution, merger, consolidation or other reorganization of Tenant, or any issuance, sale, gift,
transfer or redemption of any capital stock of Tenant, whether voluntary, involuntary or by
operation of law, or any combination of any of the foregoing transactions) resulting in the
transfer of control of Tenant, other than by reason of death or retirement, shall be deemed to be a
voluntary assignment of this lease by Tenant subject to the provisions of this Section 15. If
Tenant is a partnership or limited liability company, any transaction or series of transactions
(including without limitation any withdrawal or admittance of a partner or member or any change in
any partner s or member s interest in Tenant, whether voluntary, involuntary or by operation of
law, or any combination of any of the foregoing transactions) resulting in the transfer of control
of Tenant, other than by reason of death or retirement, shall be deemed to be a voluntary
assignment of this lease by Tenant subject to the provisions of this Section 15. The term   control  
as used in this lease means the power to directly or indirectly direct or cause the direction of
the management or policies of the subject entity, whether through the ownership of voting
securities or other beneficial interests or otherwise.

Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, the provisions of this Section 15(g) shall not apply to
an entity the outstanding voting stock of which is listed at the time of a transaction referred to
herein on a   national securities exchange ,  as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

(h)    Permitted Transfers.   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, Landlord s consent
shall not be required for an assignment or sublet to a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate (as
such terms are hereinafter defined), and Landlord shall not terminate this lease with respect to
the Premises or any portion of the Premises as a result of such assignment or sublet to a Tenant
Successor or Tenant Affiliate, as long as (i) Tenant gives reasonable prior notice to Landlord of
the proposed assignment or sublet; (ii) if an assignment, such assignee assumes the obligations of
Tenant under this lease; (iii) if an assignment to a Tenant Successor, in the reasonable judgment
of Landlord such assignee has a net worth (computed in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles) equal to or greater than the original named Tenant at the time of such
assignment; and (iv) if an assignment to a Tenant Affiliate, in the reasonable judgment of
Landlord such assignee is sufficiently financially responsible to perform the obligations of the
Tenant under this lease. As used herein, the term   Tenant Successor   shall mean any entity (i)
which results from a merger or consolidation with the original Tenant under this lease or (ii)
which acquires all or substantially all of the assets of the original Tenant under this lease for
a legitimate business purpose; and the term   Tenant Affiliate   shall mean any entity which is
controlled by, controls, or is under common control with (A) the original Tenant named in this
lease or (B) a Tenant Successor.

27

16.    WAIVERS OF CERTAIN CLAIMS. INDEMNITIES.  

(a)    General Waiver.   In addition to and without limiting or being limited by any
other
releases or waivers of claims in this lease, but rather in confirmation and furtherance
thereof, to
the extent not prohibited by law, Landlord and Tenant each releases and waives any and all
claims
for, and rights to recover, damages against and from the other, and the other s respective
agents,
members, partners, shareholders, officers and employees (collectively, the  Released
Parties ),
for loss, damage or destruction to any of its property (including the Premises, the Building
and
their contents), the elements of which are insured against by the party suffering such loss,
damage
or destruction, or are required under Section 22 hereof to be insured against by such party.
In
no event shall this clause be deemed, construed or asserted (i) to affect or limit any claims
or
rights against any Released Parties other than the right to recover damages for loss, damage
or
destruction to property, or (ii) to benefit any third party other than the Released Parties.

(b)    indemnity by Tenant.   In addition to and without limiting or being limited by any
other indemnity in this lease, but rather in confirmation and furtherance thereof, to the
extent not
prohibited by law, Tenant agrees to indemnify, defend by counsel reasonably acceptable to
Landlord and hold Landlord and the Landlord Parties, and the Project, harmless of, from and
against any and all losses, damages, liabilities, claims, liens, costs and expenses, including
court
costs and reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses, imposed on them in connection with injury
to
or death of third parties, other than the Landlord Parties, or with respect to damage to or
theft,
loss or loss of the use of any properly of third parties, other than the Landlord Parties,
occurring
in or about the Premises or the Project arising from Tenant s occupancy of the Premises, or
the
conduct of its business or from any activity, work, or thing done, permitted or suffered by
Tenant
in or about the Premises or the Project, or due to any other negligent act or omission or
wilful
misconduct of Tenant, or any of its employees, agents or contractors.

(c) Indemnity by Landlord.  In addition to and without limiting or being limited by
any other indemnity in this lease, but rather in confirmation and furtherance thereof, to the
extent
not prohibited by law, Landlord agrees to indemnify, defend by counsel reasonably acceptable
to
Tenant and hold Tenant, its constituent members, and their respective
officers, directors,
members, partners, agents, employees, successors and assigns
(collectively, the   Tenant
Parties  )
harmless of, from and against any and all losses, damages, liabilities, claims, liens, costs
and
expenses, including court costs and reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses, imposed on them
in
connection with injury to or death of third parties, other than the Tenant Parties, occurring
within
the common areas of the Building, or with respect to damage to or theft, loss or loss of the
use
of property of third parties, other than Tenant Parties, occurring within the common areas of
the
Building, but only to the extent that the foregoing losses, damages, liabilities, claims,
liens, costs
and expenses arise from or are caused directly or indirectly by any negligent act or omission
or
wilful misconduct of Landlord, or any of its employees, agents, officers, directors or
partners.
Such third parties shall not be deemed third party beneficiaries to this lease.

28

(d)    Waiver . 
To the extent permitted by law, Tenant releases Landlord and the
Landlord Parties from, and waives all claims for, damage or injury to person or property
sustained by the Tenant or any occupant of the Building or Premises resulting directly or
indirectly from any existing or future condition, defect, matter or thing in and about the
Project
or the Premises or any part of either or any equipment or appurtenance therein, or resulting
from
any accident in or about the Project or resulting directly or indirectly from any act of
neglect of
any tenant or occupant of the Building or of any other person, including Landlord s agents and
servants, except where resulting from the neglect or willful act of Landlord or any of the
Landlord
Parties. Tenant hereby waives any consequential damages, compensation or claims for
inconvenience or loss of business, rents, or profits as a result of any injury or damage
occurring
at or about the Building.

(e)    Landlord s Negligence  . Subject to the provisions of Section 16(a), no agreement
of Tenant in this lease shall be deemed to exempt Landlord from liability or damages for
injury
to persons or damage to property caused by or resulting from the negligence of Landlord, its
agents, servants or employees, in the operation or maintenance of the Premises or Building.

17.    DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION BY CASUALTY  .

(a)    Termination of Lease: Repair by Landlord  . If the Premises or the Building
shall be damaged by fire or other casualty and if such damage does not render all or a substantial
portion of the Premises or the Building untenantable (as hereinafter defined), then Landlord shall
proceed with reasonable promptness to repair and restore the Building and the Premises so as to
render the Premises tenantable, subject to reasonable delays for insurance adjustments and delays
caused by matters beyond Landlord s reasonable control, and also subject to zoning laws and
building codes then in effect. If any such damage renders all or a substantial portion of the
Premises or the Building untenantable, Landlord shall, with reasonable promptness after the
occurrence of such damage, estimate the length of time that will be required to substantially
complete the repair and restoration of the Building and the Premises, as the case may be,
necessitated by such damage and shall by notice advise Tenant of such estimate. If it is so
estimated that the amount of time required to substantially complete such repair and restoration
will exceed two hundred seventy (270) days from the date such damage occurred, then either
Landlord or Tenant (but Tenant shall have such right only if the damage was not caused by the
willful act of Tenant, its agents, employees or contractors, and only if all or a substantial
portion of the Premises is rendered untenantable and the estimated time for Landlord required to
substantially complete such repair or restoration to render the Premises tenantable will exceed
such two hundred seventy (270) day period) shall have the right to terminate this lease as of the
date of notice of such election by giving notice to the other at anytime within twenty (20) days
after Landlord gives Tenant the notice containing said estimate (it being understood that Landlord
may, if it elects to do so, also give such notice of termination together with the notice
containing said estimate). Unless this lease is terminated as provided in the preceding sentence,
Landlord shall proceed with reasonable promptness to repair and restore the Building or the
Premises so

29

as to render the Premises tenantable, subject to reasonable delays for insurance adjustments
and delays caused by matters beyond Landlord s reasonable control, and also subject to zoning laws
and building codes then in effect. Landlord shall have no liability to Tenant, and Tenant shall not
be entitled to terminate this lease (except as hereinafter provided) if such repairs and
restoration are not in fact completed within the time period estimated by Landlord, as aforesaid,
or within said two hundred seventy (270) days. However, if such repairs and restoration are not
completed by a date (  Outside Date  ) which is twelve (12) months after the date of such fire or
other casualty (or ninety-five (95) days after the expiration of the time period estimated by
Landlord as aforesaid, if longer than two hundred seventy (270) days and neither party terminated
the lease as permitted), which Outside Date shall be extended by all periods of delay attributable
to the acts or omissions of Tenant or Tenant s agents, employees or contractors, for any reason
whatsoever, then tenant may terminate this lease, effective as of the date of notice of such
election, by giving written notice to Landlord within the thirty (30) day period after said Outside
Date as extended as aforesaid, but prior to substantial completion of repair or restoration.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein set forth: (i) Landlord shall not be obligated (but
may, at its option, so elect) to repair or restore the Premises or Building if the damage is due
to an uninsurable casualty or if insurance proceeds are insufficient to pay for such repair or
restoration, or if any Mortgagee applies proceeds of insurance to reduce its loan balance, and the
remaining proceeds, if any, available to Landlord are not sufficient to pay for such repair or
restoration, provided that if Landlord does not elect in the circumstances referred to in this
clause to repair or restore the Premises, Landlord shall so notify Tenant and Tenant shall
thereafter have the right to terminate this lease upon notice to that effect given within thirty
(30) days after receipt of such notice from Landlord, time being of the essence; or (ii) if any
such damage rendering all or substantial portion of the Premises or Building untenantable shall
occur during the last year of the Term, either party (but as to Tenant s right, only if all or a
substantial portion of the Premises is rendered untenantable) shall have the option to terminate
this lease by giving written notice to the other within thirty (30) days after the date such damage
occurred, and if such option is so exercised, this lease shall terminate as of the date of such
notice.

(b)   Abatement of Rent  . In the event any such fire or casualty damage renders the
Premises untenantable, Rent shall abate during the period beginning with the date of such damage
and ending with the date when Landlord substantially completes its repair or restoration required
hereunder. Such abatement shall be in an amount bearing the same ratio to the total amount of Rent
for such period as the portion of the Rentable Area of the Premises which is untenantable and not
used by Tenant from time to time bears to the Rentable Area of the entire Premises. In the event of
termination of this lease pursuant to this Section 17, Rent shall be apportioned on a per diem
basis and be paid to the date of the termination, subject to the foregoing abatement.

(c)   Untenantability  . As used in this lease, the term  untenantable  means reasonably incapable
of being occupied for its intended use due to damage to the Premises or Building. Notwithstanding
anything contained to the contrary in this Section 17, neither the Premises nor

30

any portion of the Premises shall be deemed untenantable if Tenant continues to
actually occupy the subject portion of the Premises.

18.   EMINENT DOMAIN   . 

(a)   Substantial Taking   .  If the entire Project or the entire Building, or a
substantial part of either of them, or any part of the Project which includes all or a substantial
part of the Premises, shall be taken or condemned by any competent authority for any public or
quasi-public use or purpose, the Term of this lease shall end upon and not before the earlier of
the date when the possession of the part so taken shall be required for such use or purpose or the
effective date of the taking. If any condemnation proceeding shall be instituted in which it is
sought to take or damage any part of the Project, the taking or damaging of which would, in
Landlord s reasonable opinion, prevent the economical operation of the Project, Landlord shall
have the right to terminate this lease upon written notice to Tenant given not less than ninety
(90) days prior to the date of termination designated in the notice. In either of the events above
referred to, Rent shall be apportioned on a per diem basis and be
payable to the date of the
termination.

(b)   Taking of Part  . In the event a part of the Building or the Premises is taken or
condemned by any competent authority and this lease is not terminated as provided in Section 18(a)
above, the lease shall be amended to reduce the Monthly Base Rent and reduce or increase, as the
case may be, Tenant s Proportionate Share to reflect the Rentable Area of the Premises or
Building, as the case may be, remaining after any such taking or condemnation. Landlord, upon
receipt and to the extent of the award in condemnation (or proceeds of sale) shall make necessary
repairs and restorations to the Premises and to the Building to the extent necessary to constitute
the portion of the Building not so taken or condemned as a complete architectural and economically
efficient unit.

(c)   Compensation  . Landlord shall be entitled to receive the entire award (or sale
proceeds) from any such taking, condemnation or sale without any payment to Tenant, and Tenant
hereby assigns to Landlord all of Tenant s interest, if any, in such award; provided, however,
Tenant shall have the right separately to pursue against the condemning authority a separate award
in respect of the loss, if any, to Tenant Alterations paid for by Tenant without any credit or
allowance from Landlord, so long as there is no diminution of Landlord s award as a result, and
subject to the rights of any ground lessor or mortgagee of Landlord with respect thereto.

19.    DEFAULT;
LANDLORD S RIGHTS AND REMEDIES   .  

(a)   Default  . The occurrence of any one or more of the following matters
constitutes a   Default   by Tenant under this lease:

(i) Failure by Tenant to pay any Rent when due, if such failure continues for five
(5) days after written notice to Tenant of such failure;

31

(ii) Failure by Tenant to pay any other money required to be paid by Tenant
under this lease when due, if such failure continues for five (5) days after written notice to
Tenant of such failure;

(iii) Failure by Tenant to observe or perform any of the covenants in respect of assignment
and subletting set forth in Section 15;

(iv) Failure by Tenant to cure forthwith, immediately after receipt of notice from Landlord,
any hazardous condition which Tenant has created or permitted in violation of law or of this
lease;

(v) Failure by Tenant to complete, execute and deliver any instrument or document required to
be completed, executed and delivered by Tenant pursuant to Section 20 or Section 24 of this lease
within the time required for such instrument or document in accordance with such Sections, if such
failure continues for five (5) business days after written notice to Tenant of such failure;

(vi) Failure by Tenant to observe or perform any other covenant, agreement, condition or
provision of this lease, if such failure shall continue for thirty (30) days after written notice
thereof from Landlord to Tenant; provided that such 30-day period shall be extended for the time
reasonably required to complete such cure (not to exceed, in any event, an additional 90-day
period), if such failure cannot reasonably be cured within said 30-day period and Tenant commences
to cure such failure within said 30-day period and thereafter diligently and continuously proceeds
to cure such failure;

(vii) The levy upon execution or the attachment by legal process of the leasehold interest of
Tenant, which levy or attachment shall not be released or discharged within ten (10) days from the
date thereof;

(viii) Tenant abandons the Premises;

(ix) Tenant becomes insolvent or bankrupt or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts
as they mature, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or applies for or consents to
the appointment of a trustee or receiver for Tenant or for the major part of its property;

(x) A trustee or receiver is appointed for Tenant or for a major part of its property,
without Tenant s application therefor or consent thereto, and is not discharged within sixty (60)
days after such appointment;

(xi) Any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceeding, or
other proceeding for relief under any bankruptcy law or similar law for the

32

relief of debtors, is instituted (A) by Tenant, or (B) against Tenant and is
allowed against it or is consented to by it or is not dismissed within sixty (60) days after
such institution; or

(xii) Upon the third occurrence within any twelve-month period that Tenant
fails to pay Rent when due or has breached a particular covenant of this lease (whether or
not such failure or breach is thereafter cured within any stated cure or grace period or
statutory period).

(b)   Landlord s Rights and Remedies  . If a Default occurs, Landlord shall have the rights
and remedies hereinafter set forth, which shall be distinct, separate and cumulative and shall not
operate to exclude or deprive Landlord of any other right or remedy allowed it at law or in
equity:

(i) Landlord may terminate this lease, in which event the Term of this lease shall
end, and all right, title and interest of Tenant hereunder shall expire, on the date stated
in such notice;

(ii) Landlord may terminate the right of Tenant to possession of the Premises without
terminating this lease, whereupon the right of Tenant to possession of the Premises or any
part thereof shall cease on the date stated in such notice; and

(iii) Landlord may enforce the provisions of this lease and may enforce and protect
the rights of Landlord hereunder by a suit or suits in equity or at law for the specific
performance of any covenant or agreement contained herein, and, except as specifically
hereinafter provided, for the enforcement of any other appropriate legal or equitable
remedy, including without limitation injunctive relief, recovery of all money due or to
become due from Tenant under any of the provisions of this lease and recovery of damages
incurred by Landlord by reason of the Default. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing or
anything else to the contrary in this lease, Landlord waives all rights to distrain for
rent against Tenant s property in the Premises.

(iv) Landlord may cure or correct such Default or take steps to perform any covenant,
agreement, condition or provisions of this lease, and all costs and expenses incurred by
Landlord in so doing (including reasonable attorneys  fees) shall be paid by Tenant to
Landlord as additional rent upon demand plus interest at the Default Rate (defined in
Section 28(i)) from the date of expenditure. Landlord s proceeding under the rights
reserved to Landlord under this Section 19(b)(iv) shall not in any way prejudice or waive
any rights as Landlord might otherwise have against Tenant by reason of that or any other
Default.

33

(c)   Surrender  . If Landlord exercises any of the remedies provided for in
subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of Section 19(b), Tenant shall surrender possession of and vacate the
Premises and immediately deliver possession thereof to Landlord, and Landlord may re-enter and take
complete and peaceful possession of the Premises, with process of law if Tenant is in occupancy of
the Premises, full and complete license so to do being hereby granted to Landlord, and Landlord may
remove all occupants and property therefrom, using such lawful force as may be necessary, without
being deemed in any manner guilty of trespass, eviction or forcible entry and detainer, and without
relinquishing Landlord s right to Rent or any other right given to Landlord hereunder or by law or
in equity.

(d)   Termination of Right of Possession  . If Landlord terminates the right of Tenant to
possession of the Premises without terminating this lease, as provided for by subparagraph (ii) of
Section 19(b), then Landlord shall be entitled to recover from Tenant all the fixed dollar amounts
of Rent accrued and unpaid for the period up to and including such termination date, as well as
all other additional sums payable by Tenant, or for which Tenant is liable or in respect of which
Tenant has agreed to indemnify Landlord under any of the provisions of this lease, which may be
then owing and unpaid, and all costs and expenses, including without limitation court costs and
reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses incurred by Landlord in the enforcement of its rights and
remedies hereunder, and in addition, Landlord shall be entitled to recover from Tenant from time
to time, and Tenant shall remain liable for, all Rent and all other additional sums thereafter
accruing as they become due under this lease during the period from the date of such notice of
termination of possession to the stated end of the Term. In any such case, Landlord shall use
reasonable efforts to relet the Premises for the account of Tenant for such rent, for such time
(which may be for a term extending beyond the Term of this lease), in such portions and upon such
terms as Landlord in Landlord s reasonable judgment shall determine, and Landlord shall not be
required to accept any tenant offered by Tenant or to observe any instructions given by Tenant
relative to such reletting. Landlord may give priority over leasing the Premises to any other
space Landlord desires to lease in the Building and shall not be required in any case to offer
rent, length of terms or other terms for the Premises which are or would be less favorable to
Landlord than being offered for comparable space of Landlord in the Building. Also, in any such
case, Landlord may make repairs, alterations and additions in or to the Premises and redecorate
the same to the extent deemed by Landlord necessary, and in connection therewith Landlord may
change the locks to the Premises, and Tenant shall upon written demand pay the cost thereof
together with Landlord s expenses of reletting. Landlord may collect the rents from any such
reletting and shall apply the same first to the payment of the expenses of reentry, redecoration,
repair, alterations and reletting and second to the payment of Rent herein provided to be paid by
Tenant, and any excess or residue shall operate only as an offsetting credit against the amount of
Rent, if any, due and owing or as the same thereafter becomes due and payable hereunder, but the
use of such offsetting credit to reduce the amount of Rent due Landlord, if any, shall not be
deemed to give Tenant any right, title or interest in or to such excess or residue, and any such
excess or residue shall belong to Landlord solely; provided that in no event shall Tenant be
entitled to such a credit against Rent in excess of the aggregate sum (including Base Rent and

34

Additional Rent) which would have been paid by Tenant for the period for which the credit to
Tenant is being determined had no Default occurred. No such re-entry, repossession, repairs,
alterations, additions or reletting shall be construed as an eviction or ouster of Tenant or as an
election on Landlord s part to terminate this lease, unless a written notice of such intention is
given to Tenant, or shall operate to release Tenant in whole or in part from any of Tenant s
obligations hereunder, and Landlord may, at any time and from time to time, sue and recover
judgment for any deficiencies from time to time remaining after the application from time to time
of the proceeds of any such reletting.

(e)   Termination of Lease  . In the event of the termination of this lease by Landlord as
provided for by subparagraph (i) of Section 19(b), Landlord shall be entitled to recover from
Tenant all the fixed dollar amounts of Rent accrued and unpaid for the period up to and including
such termination date, as well as all other additional sums payable by Tenant, or for which Tenant
is liable or in respect of which Tenant has agreed to indemnify Landlord under any of the
provisions of this lease, which may be then owing and unpaid, and all costs and expenses, including
without limitation court costs and reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses incurred by Landlord in
the enforcement of its rights and remedies hereunder, and in addition, Landlord shall be entitled
to recover an amount equal to the present value of the aggregate Base Rent and Additional Rent
payable for the period from the termination date stated in Landlord s notice terminating this lease
until the date which would have been the Expiration Date but for such termination, less the present
value of the fair rental value of the Premises for the same period (which fair rental value shall
be calculated so as to include a reasonable vacancy period for reletting the Premises and
deductions for reasonable expenses and inducements incurred by Landlord to achieve such reletting,
including without limitation attorneys  fees and expenses, brokerage fees, advertising costs, rent
abatements, tenant improvement allowances and the like).

(f)   Tenant s Property  . All property of Tenant removed from the Premises by Landlord
or which becomes Landlord s property pursuant to any provisions of this lease or by law may be
handled, removed or stored by Landlord at the cost and expense of Tenant, and Landlord shall in no
event be responsible for the value, preservation or safekeeping thereof. Tenant shall pay Landlord
for all expenses incurred by Landlord in such removal and for storage charges for such property so
long as the same shall be in Landlord s possession or under Landlord s control. All property not
removed from the Premises or retaken from storage by Tenant on or before the end of the Term,
however terminated, or the termination of Tenant s right of possession, shall, at Landlord s
option, be conclusively deemed to have been conveyed by Tenant to Landlord as by bill of sale,
without further payment or credit by Landlord to Tenant.

(g)   Waiver of Notices Not Provided for in this Lease  . Tenant expressly waives the
service of any notice of intention to terminate this lease or to reenter the Premises and waives
the service of any demand for payment of rent or for possession and waives the service of any and
every other notice or demand prescribed by any ordinance, statute or other law (except as expressly
otherwise provided in this lease) and agrees that the breach of any covenants or

35

agreements provided in this lease shall, in and of itself, without the service of
any notice or demand whatever (except as expressly otherwise provided in this lease), constitute a
forcible detainer by Tenant of the Premises.

(h)   Waiver of Trial by Jury  . Landlord and Tenant hereby do waive trial by jury in any
action, proceeding or counterclaim brought by either of the parties hereto against the other on
any matter whatsoever arising out of or in any way connected with this lease, the relationship of
Landlord and Tenant, Tenant s use of or occupancy of the Premises or any claim of injury or damage
and any emergency statutory or any other statutory remedy. If Landlord commences any summary
proceeding for non-payment of rent, Tenant will not interpose any counterclaim of whatever nature
or description in any such proceeding, except that Tenant may interpose any mandatory counterclaim
( i.e. , any claim which Tenant may not lawfully pursue in any other or separate proceedings).

20.   RIGHTS OF MORTGAGEES AND GROUND LESSORS  .

(a)   Subordination of Lease  . Landlord may have heretofore or may hereafter
encumber with a mortgage or trust deed the Building, the Land, the Project, any part thereof or
any interest therein, may sell and lease back the Land, or any part of the Project, and may
encumber the leasehold estate under such a sale and leaseback arrangement with a mortgage or trust
deed. (Any such mortgage or trust deed is herein called a   Mortgage   and the holder of any such
mortgage or the beneficiary under any such trust deed is herein called a   Mortgagee.   Any such
lease of the Land or other part of the Project is herein called a   Ground Lease   and the lessor
under any such lease is herein called a   Ground Lessor.  ) This lease and the rights of Tenant
hereunder shall be and are hereby expressly made subordinate at all times to any Mortgage and to
any Ground Lease now or hereafter existing, and to all amendments, modifications, renewals,
extensions, consolidations and replacements thereof, and to all advances made or hereafter to be
made upon the security thereof, subject to the remaining provisions of this Section.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord shall use reasonable efforts to obtain a non-disturbance
agreement from Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (i.e., being the existing Mortgagee of the
Building), which agreement shall be in the form attached hereto as Exhibit G. Landlord shall
deliver a counterpart of the same executed by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company to Tenant within
thirty (30) days following execution and delivery by Landlord and Tenant of this lease and such
subordination, non-disturbance and attornment agreement, failing which, as Tenant s sole remedy
for such failure, Tenant may terminate this lease by notice to Landlord to that effect given
within ten (10) days after the end of such thirty (30) day period and prior to Tenant taking
possession of the Premises. Tenant agrees to execute and deliver to Landlord such further
instruments consenting to or confirming the subordination of this lease to any Mortgage and to any
Ground Lease and containing such other provisions which may be requested in writing by Landlord
within ten (10) days after Tenant s receipt of such written request; provided that any such
instrument shall also include recognition and non-disturbance provisions to the effect that the
Mortgagee or Ground Lessor will not disturb Tenant s continued occupancy of the Premises under

36

this lease so long as Tenant is not in Default hereunder, which recognition and
non-disturbance provisions may contain such other terms and conditions as are contained in the
Mortgagee s or Ground Lessor s customary form of subordination, non-disturbance and attornment
agreement.

(b)   Notice of and Opportunity to Cure Defaults  . Tenant agrees that if Landlord
defaults in the performance or observance of any covenant or condition of this lease required to be
performed or observed by Landlord hereunder, Tenant will give written notice specifying such
default by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, to any Mortgagee or Ground Lessor of
which Tenant has been notified in writing, and before Tenant exercises any right to terminate this
lease which Tenant may have on account of any such default of Landlord, such Mortgagee or Ground
Lessor shall have an additional thirty (30) days after receipt of notice thereof within which to
cure such default (or if such default cannot be cured within that time, then such additional time
as may be necessary, if, within such thirty (30) days, any Mortgagee or Ground Lessor has commenced
and is diligently pursuing the remedies necessary to cure such default, including but not limited
to commencement of foreclosure proceedings or other proceedings to acquire possession of the
mortgaged or leased estate, if necessary to effect such cure). Such period of tune shall be
extended by any period within which such Mortgagee or Ground Lessor is prevented from commencing or
pursuing such foreclosure proceedings or other proceedings to acquire possession of the mortgaged
or leased estate by reason of Landlord s bankruptcy.

(c)   Rights of Successors  . If any Mortgage is foreclosed, or Landlord s interest under
this lease is conveyed or transferred in lieu of foreclosure, or if any Ground Lease is terminated:

(i) No person or entity which as the result of any of the foregoing has succeeded to
the interest of Landlord in this lease (any such person or entity being hereafter called a
 Landlord Successor ) shall be liable for any default by Landlord or any other matter which
occurred prior to the date such Landlord Successor succeeded to Landlord s interest in this
lease, nor shall such Landlord Successor be bound by or subject to any offsets or defenses
which Tenant may have against Landlord or any other predecessor in interest to such
Landlord Successor.

(ii) Upon request of any Landlord Successor, Tenant will attorn to such
Landlord Successor, as Landlord under this lease, subject to the provisions of this
Section 20(c) and Section 20(e), and will execute and deliver such instruments as may be
necessary or appropriate to evidence such attornment within ten (10) days after receipt of
a written request to do so.

(iii) No Landlord Successor shall be bound to recognize any prepayment by more
than thirty (30) days of Base Rent or Additional Rent.

37

(iv) No Landlord Successor shall be bound to recognize any amendment or
modification of this lease made without the written consent of the Mortgagee or Ground
Lessor (as the case may be).

(d)   Subordination of Mortgage  . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein, any Mortgagee may subordinate, in whole or in part, its Mortgage to this lease by sending
Tenant notice in writing subordinating all or any part of such Mortgage to this lease, and Tenant
agrees to execute and deliver to such Mortgagee such further instruments consenting to or
confirming the subordination of all or any portion of its Mortgage to this lease and containing
such other provisions which may be requested in writing by such Mortgagee within ten (10) days
after Tenant s receipt of such written request.

(e)   Liability of Mortgagee and Ground Lessor  . Whether or not any Mortgage is
foreclosed or any Ground Lease is terminated, or any Mortgagee or Ground Lessor succeeds to any
interest of Landlord under this lease, no Mortgagee or Ground Lessor shall have any liability to
Tenant for any security deposit paid to Landlord by Tenant hereunder, unless such security deposit
has actually been received by such Mortgagee or Ground Lessor.

(f)   Requests by Mortgagee or Ground Lessor  . Should any prospective Mortgagee or Ground
Lessor require execution of a short form of this lease for recording (containing, among other
customary provisions, the names of the parties, a description of the Premises and the Term of this
lease), Tenant agrees to execute such short form of lease and deliver the same to Landlord within
ten (10) days following the request therefor.

21.   DEFAULT
UNDER OTHER LEASES   .  If the term of any lease, other than this lease and
other than any lease of storage space, heretofore or hereafter made by Tenant for any space in the
Building shall be terminated or terminable after the making of this lease because of any Default by
Tenant or any such other party under such other lease, such fact shall empower Landlord, at
Landlord s sole option, to terminate this lease by written notice to Tenant or to exercise any of
the rights or remedies set forth in Section 19.

22.   INSURANCE
AND SUBROGATION   .  

(a)   Tenant s Insurance  . Tenant shall carry insurance during the entire Term
hereof, with terms, coverages and in companies satisfactory to Landlord, and with such changes in
insured parties and increase in limits as Landlord may from time to time request consistent, as to
limits, with limits being required by comparable first-class office buildings in downtown Chicago,
Illinois, but initially Tenant shall maintain the following coverages in the following amounts:

(i) 
       
     Public liability insurance with the broad form commercial liability
endorsement, including contractual liability insurance covering Tenant s
indemnity obligations hereunder, insuring against claims for death, bodily 

38

injury, personal injury and property damage occurring upon, in or
about the Premises in an amount not less than $5,000,000.00 per occurrence
and having a general aggregate amount on a per location basis of not less
than $5,000,000.00. 

(ii) 
       
      All risk  physical damage insurance including fire, sprinkler leakage,
vandalism and extended coverage for the full replacement cost of all office
furniture, trade fixtures, office equipment, merchandise and all other
items of Tenant s property on the Premises. 

(iii) 
       
     Workers  Compensation and Employers  Liability insurance in an amount
of not less than $1,000,000.00, both in accordance with the laws of the
State of Illinois. 

(iv) 
       
     Such other insurance or coverage as Landlord reasonably requests which
is consistent with insurance and coverages being required by comparable
first-class office buildings in downtown Chicago, Illinois. 

All policies of liability insurance (specifically not including Workers  Compensation) shall
name Landlord, Landlord s constituent members and agents, all Mortgagees and Ground Lessors and
their respective agents, partners and employees as additional insureds.

Tenant shall, prior to the commencement of the Term and from time to time during the Term
(and, in any event, not less than ten days prior to the expiration of any such policy), furnish to
Landlord certificates of insurance (with proof of payment) and, if requested by Landlord, copies
of all policies, evidencing the foregoing insurance coverage. Tenant s policies shall state that
such insurance coverage may not be amended, cancelled or not renewed without at least thirty (30)
days  prior written notice to Landlord and Tenant, and shall further provide that the policy shall
not be invalidated should the insured party have waived in writing prior to a loss, any and all
rights of the insured party against any other party for losses covered by such policy.

(b)   Waiver of Subrogation  . Landlord and Tenant each agree to have all property or
physical damage insurance which it may carry endorsed with a clause providing that any release from
liability of or waiver of claim for recovery from the other party or any of the parties named in
Section 22(a) above or Released Parties described in Section 16(a) entered into in writing by the
insured thereunder prior to any loss or damage shall not affect the validity of said policy or the
right of the insured to recover thereunder. Tenant s policy shall provide further that the insurer
waives all rights of subrogation which such insurer might have against any of the parties named in
Section 22(a) above. Tenant further agrees to first seek recovery under any applicable insurance
policy before proceeding against Landlord. Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything contained in
this lease to the contrary, any release or waiver of claims shall not be operative, nor shall the
foregoing endorsements be required, in any case where the effect of such release or

39

waiver is to invalidate insurance coverage or invalidate the right of the insured to recover
thereunder or increase the cost thereof (provided that in the case of increased cost the other
party shall nave the right, within ten (10) days following written notice, to pay such increased
cost, thereby keeping such release or waiver in full force and effect).

(c)   Landlord s Insurance  . Landlord shall carry during the Term hereof replacement
cost property insurance on the Building (including all base Building improvements at the Building,
the Landlord s Work, and the Tenant s Work and other Tenant Alterations) against fire and other
extended coverage perils in an amount sufficient to prevent Landlord from being deemed a
co-insurer of the risks insured under the policy.

23.   NONWAIVER  . No waiver of any condition expressed in this lease shall be implied
by any neglect of a party to enforce any remedy on account of the violation of such condition,
whether or not such violation be continued or repeated subsequently, and no express waiver shall
affect any condition other than the one specified in such waiver and that one only for the time and
in the manner specifically stated. Without limiting Landlord s rights under the provisions of
Section 11, it is agreed that no receipt of money by Landlord from Tenant after the termination in
any way of the Term or of Tenant s right of possession hereunder or after a Default shall
reinstate, continue or extend the Term or affect any notice given to Tenant prior to the receipt of
such money. It is also agreed that after Default or the commencement of a suit or after final
judgment for possession of the Premises, Landlord may receive and collect any money due, and
Landlord s receipt and collection of said money shall not waive or affect any said Default, suit or
judgment.

24.   ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE   .  Tenant agrees that from time to time upon not less than ten (10)
business days  prior request by Landlord, or any existing or prospective Mortgagee or Ground
Lessor, Tenant will complete, execute and deliver to Landlord or Landlord s designee or to any
existing or prospective Mortgagee or Ground Lessor, a written estoppel certificate certifying (a)
that this lease is unmodified and is in full force and effect (or if there have been modifications,
that this lease, as modified, is in full force and effect and setting forth the modifications); (b)
the amounts of the monthly installments of Base Rent and Additional Rent Estimate then required to
be paid under this lease; (c) the date to which Rent has been paid; (d) that to Tenant s knowledge,
Landlord is not in default under any of the provisions of this lease, or if in default, the nature
thereof in detail and what is required to cure same; and (e) such other information concerning the
status of this lease or the parties  performance hereunder reasonably requested by Landlord or the
party to whom such estoppel certificate is to be addressed.

25.   TENANT
CORPORATION LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY OR PARTNERSHIP   .  In case
Tenant is a corporation or a limited liability company, (a) Tenant represents and warrants that
this lease has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by and on behalf of Tenant and
constitutes the valid and binding agreement of Tenant, and (b) if Landlord

40

so requests, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord, concurrently with the delivery of this
lease executed by Tenant, resolutions of the board of directors or board of managers (and
shareholders and/or members, if required) of Tenant authorizing Tenant s execution and delivery of
this lease and the performance of Tenant s obligations hereunder, certified as true and correct by
any authorized representative of Tenant. In case Tenant is a partnership, (a) Tenant represents and
warrants that all of the persons who are general or managing partners in said partnership have
executed this lease on behalf of Tenant, or that this lease has been executed and delivered
pursuant to and in conformity with a valid and effective authorization therefor by all of the
general or managing partners of such partnership, and is and constitutes the valid and binding
agreement of the partnership, and (b) if Landlord so requests, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord,
concurrently with the. delivery of this lease executed by Tenant, authorization of the general
partners (and limited partners, if required by the partnership agreement) of Tenant authorizing
Tenant s execution and delivery of this lease and the performance of Tenant s obligations
hereunder, certified as true and correct by a general partner of Tenant. If Tenant is a
partnership, limited liability company or corporation whose stock is not publicly traded, Tenant
represents and warrants to Landlord that it has disclosed in writing to Landlord the persons or
entities who individually or collectively own a controlling interest in Tenant as of the date of
the execution of this lease.

26.   REAL ESTATE BROKERS  . Landlord and Tenant each represent and warrant to the other that the
party making such representation and warranty did not deal with any broker in connection with this
lease other than the Brokers identified in Section l(c). Landlord hereby agrees to pay the
brokerage commissions payable to said Brokers in accordance with a written agreement between
Landlord and such Broker. Each party shall indemnify, defend and hold the other, its agents, their
respective partners and employees and, with respect to the indemnification of Landlord, the
Project, harmless of, from and against any and all losses, damages, liabilities, claims, liens,
costs and expenses, including without limitation court costs and reasonable attorneys  fees and
expenses, arising from any claims or demands of any other broker or brokers or finders for any
commission alleged to be due such other broker or brokers or finders claiming to have dealt with
the party making the indemnification in connection with this lease or with whom such party
hereafter deals or whom such party employs.

27.   NOTICES  . All notices, waivers, demands, requests or other communications required
or permitted hereunder shall, unless otherwise expressly provided, be in writing and be deemed to
have been properly given, served and received (a) if delivered personally or by sameday courier
messenger, when delivered, (b) if sent by nationally required overnight courier, on the first (1st)
business day after deposit with said courier, and (c) if mailed by United States Mail, certified or
registered, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, upon receipt or deemed receipt (as
hereinafter defined).

41

If to Landlord: 
       
     303 Wacker Realty L.L.C. 

c/o Hines 

303 East Wacker Drive 

Chicago, Illinois 60601 

Attention: Property Manager 

with an additional copy to: 

Hines Interests Limited
Partnership 

70 West Madison Street 

Suite 440 

Chicago, Illinois 60602 

Attention: C. Kevin Shannahan 

and to 
       
     303 Wacker Realty L.L.C. 

c/o J.P. Morgan Investment
Management Inc. 

522 Fifth Avenue 

New York, New York 10036 

Attention: Sheryl M. Crosland 

If to Tenant: 
       
     Upshot 

225 West Wacker Drive 

Prior to occupancy of the

Suite 700 

Premises by Tenant:

Chicago, Illinois 60606 

Attention: Carol Griseto 

After occupancy of the

Upshot 

Premises by Tenant:

303 East Wacker Drive 
Chicago, Illinois 60601 

Attention: Carol Griseto 

or to such other address(Expansion Space) or addressee(s) as any party entitled to receive
notice hereunder shall designate to the others in the manner provided herein for the service of
notices. Rejection or refusal to accept or inability to deliver because of changed address or
because no notice of changed address was given, shall be deemed receipt.

28.   MISCELLANEOUS  .

(a)   Successors and Assigns  . Each provision of this lease shall extend to and
shall bind and inure to the benefit not only of Landlord and Tenant, but also their respective
heirs, legal representatives, successors and assigns, but this provision shall not operate to
permit any assignment, subletting, mortgage, lien, charge, or other transfer or encumbrance
contrary to the provisions of this lease.

42

(b)   Amendment  . No modification, waiver of amendment of this lease or of
any of its conditions or provisions shall be binding upon a party hereto unless the same shall be
in writing and signed by such party.

(c)   Offer  . Submission of this instrument for examination shall not constitute a
reservation of or option for the Premises or in any manner bind Landlord, and no lease or
obligation on Landlord shall arise until this instrument is signed and delivered by Landlord and
Tenant; provided, however, the execution and delivery by Tenant of this lease to Landlord, or its
agents, shall constitute an irrevocable offer by Tenant to lease the Premises on the terms and
conditions herein contained, which offer may hot be revoked for thirty (30) days after such
delivery.

(d)   Tenant  . The word   Tenant   whenever used herein shall be construed to mean Tenants
or any one or more of them in all cases where there is more than one Tenant; and the necessary
grammatical changes required to make the provisions hereof apply either to corporations or other
organizations, partnerships or other entities, or individuals, shall in all cases be assumed as
though in each case fully expressed. In all cases where there is more than one Tenant, (a) the
liability of each shall be joint and several and (b) any one person or entity comprising Tenant may
give any notice or approval required or permitted to be given by Tenant under this lease and such
notice or approval shall be deemed binding upon all persons or entities comprising Tenant and may
be relied upon by Landlord as if such notice or approval had been given by all persons or entities
comprising Tenant.

(e)   Expenses of Enforcement  . The non-prevailing party shall pay upon demand all of the
reasonable costs, charges and expenses (including the court costs and fees and out-of-pocket
expenses of counsel, agents and others retained by the prevailing party) incurred by the prevailing
party in enforcing the terms of this lease, and a party shall also pay such costs and expenses
incurred by the other party in any litigation, negotiation or transaction in which said party
causes the other party without the other party s fault to become involved or concerned. Any amount
due from Tenant to Landlord pursuant to this Section shall be deemed to be additional Rent due
under this lease.

(f)   Exhibits and Riders   .  Exhibits and riders, if any, referred to in or affixed to
this lease are made an integral part hereof.

(g)   Approval of Plans and Specifications  . Neither review nor approval by or on behalf
of Landlord of any plans and specifications for any Tenant Alterations or any other work shall
constitute a representation or warranty by Landlord, any of Landlord s constituent members, or any
of their respective agents, partners or employees, that such plans and specifications either (i)
are complete or suitable for their intended purpose, or (ii) comply with applicable Laws, it being
expressly agreed by Tenant that neither Landlord, nor any of Landlord s constituent members, nor
any of their respective agents, partners or employees, assume any responsibility or

43

liability whatsoever to Tenant or to any other person or entity for such
completeness, suitability or compliance.

(h)   Time of Essence  . Time is of the essence of this lease and of each and all
provisions hereof.

(i)   Due Date; Interest  . Except as otherwise specifically provided in this lease, all
amounts owed by Tenant to Landlord pursuant to any provision of this lease shall be paid by Tenant
within ten (10) days after Landlord s written demand, and all such amounts (including, without
limitation, Base Rent and Additional Rent) shall bear interest from the date due until paid at the
annual rate equal to the Default Rate (hereinafter defined), unless a lesser rate shall then be the
maximum rate permissible by law with respect thereto, in which event such lesser rate shall be
charged. The term   Default Rate   means three (3) percentage points in excess of the rate of
interest announced from time to time by The First National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois (or
any successor), as its  prime rate  or  corporate base rate,  changing as and when such rate
changes, or if such rate is no longer announced, then a comparable prime, base or reference rate
used by such bank or by one of the five largest banks in Chicago, Illinois, as designated by
Landlord, shall be used in its place. The provisions of this subparagraph shall in no way relieve
Tenant of the obligation to pay Rent or any other sums due hereunder on or before the date on which
payment is due, nor shall the collection by Landlord of any amount under this subparagraph impair
the ability of Landlord to collect any amount under Section 19 of this lease.

(j)   Interpretation   .  The invalidity of any provision of this lease shall not, to the
extent commercially reasonable, impair or affect in any manner the validity, enforceability or
effect of the rest of this lease.

(k)   Force Majeure  . Without limiting or being limited by the provisions of Section 8
or Section 13, or any of the other provisions of this lease, if Landlord fails to perform timely
any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this lease (including, without limitation, the terms,
covenants and conditions of the Workletter) on Landlord s part to be performed, and such failure
is due in whole or in part to any strike, lockout, labor trouble, civil disorder, riot,
insurrection, act of terrorism, war, accident, fire or other casualty, adverse weather condition,
act of God, governmental inaction, restrictive governmental law or regulation, inability to
procure materials, electricity, gas, other fuel or water or other utilities at the Building after
reasonable effort to do so, act or event caused directly or indirectly, by or by default of Tenant
or any of Tenant s employees, agents or contractors, concealed subsurface condition not reasonably
anticipated from test results obtained prior to commencement of work or any cause beyond the
reasonable control of Landlord, then Landlord shall not be deemed in default under this lease as a
result of such failure provided that Landlord has diligently performed and diligently continues to
pursue such obligations to the extent reasonably possible under the circumstances.

44

(l)   Application of Payments  . Landlord shall have the right to apply payments
received from Tenant pursuant to this lease (regardless of Tenant s designation of such payments)
to satisfy any obligations of Tenant hereunder, in such order and amounts as Landlord, in its sole
discretion, may elect.

(m)   Cumulative Remedies; Illinois Law   .  Except as expressly provided in this lease to
the contrary, the rights and remedies of each party under this lease are cumulative and none shall
exclude any other rights or remedies allowed by law or equity. This lease is for the lease of
space in a building located in the State of Illinois and is declared to be an Illinois contract,
and all of its terms shall be construed according to the laws of the State of Illinois.

(n)   Counterparts   .  This lease may be simultaneously executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original and all of which shall constitute but one and the same
instrument.

(o)   Relationship  . Landlord and Tenant disclaim any intention to create a joint
venture, partnership or agency relationship.

(p)   Action on Behalf of Landlord   .  Any service which may be provided by Landlord under
this lease may be provided by Landlord, any of its constituent members, or any agent or contractor
of any of them, and the cost to Landlord of any such agent or contractor shall be included in any
charge to Tenant for such service, provided that the fees or costs of any such services (other than
management services, which are provided for in Exhibit B) provided by affiliates of Landlord are
at competitive rates in the downtown Chicago, Illinois area. Except as provided in the following
sentence, any right reserved to Landlord under this lease may be exercised by Landlord, any of its
constituent members, or any agent, contractor or designee of any of them. Any notice, demand,
consent or approval which may be given by Landlord under this lease may be given only by Landlord,
any constituent member of Landlord, or any agent or attorney of any of them.

(q)   Entire Agreement  . This lease contains the entire agreement between Landlord, and
Tenant with respect to its subject matter, and all negotiations, considerations, representations,
understandings and agreements, oral or written, which may have been previously made between any of
the foregoing parties are incorporated and merged into this lease. In executing and delivering
this lease, Tenant has not relied on any representation, warranty or statement by Landlord, any of
Landlord s constituent members, or any of their respective agents, partners or employees, which is
not set forth in this lease, including without limitation any representation as to the amount of
any Additional Rent, or any component thereof, or any representation that Landlord is furnishing
the same services to other tenants, at all, on the same level or on the same basis.

45

(r)   Financial Statements  . At Landlord s request, Tenant shall deliver to
Landlord, within thirty (30) days after written request by Landlord, Tenant s most recent annual
financial statements and any more recent quarterly financial statements then available, including
balance sheets, income statements and cash flow statements, prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles consistently applied. Such financial statements shall be certified
by the chief financial officer of Tenant as being true, accurate and complete in all material
respects. Tenant shall also, upon Landlord s reasonable requests from time to time, deliver to
Landlord such other financial information regarding Tenant as may be reasonably available.
Landlord shall not disclose such financial information to any third party other than its lenders,
partners, members, agents, consultants, advisors, attorneys and accountants or as may be
otherwise required by a government or governmental agency or pursuant to court order.

(s)   Delivery of Possession   .  If Landlord shall be unable to deliver possession of the
Premises to Tenant on any date for any reason, Landlord shall not be liable or responsible for
any claims, damages, or liabilities in connection therewith or by reason thereof, and such
failure should not effect the validity of this lease or otherwise affect the obligations of
Tenant hereunder; provided, however, in such event, the Commencement Date hereof shall be
extended until such time as Landlord so delivers possession of the Premises to Tenant. In the
event the Commencement Date is deferred pursuant to this Section, Rent under this lease shall not
commence until said revised Commencement Date, and the stated Term of this lease shall thereupon
commence, and the Expiration Date shall be extended, so as to give effect to the full stated Term
hereof.

29.   SECURITY DEPOSIT   .  On or before September 1, 1998, Tenant Shall deliver to Landlord
an unconditional and irrevocable letter of credit (  Letter of Credit  ) in the amount of One Million
Five Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($1,500,000.00) ( Security Deposit ) as security for the
full and faithful performance of every provision of this lease to be performed by Tenant. Tenant s
failure to deliver the initial Letter of Credit to Landlord when required hereunder shall be a
default and material breach of this lease. The first such Letter of Credit shall expire no earlier
than twelve (12) months after issuance and all subsequent replacement Letters of Credit shall
expire no earlier than twelve (12) months from the expiry date of the then outstanding and expiring
Letter of Credit. Each such Letter of Credit shall be in substantially the form attached hereto as
Exhibit H and otherwise in form and substance satisfactory to Landlord. Each such Letter of Credit
shall be issued by a bank reasonably satisfactory to Landlord. Without limitation of the foregoing,
each issuer of a Letter of Credit shall have an office in Chicago, Illinois at which such Letter of
Credit may be presented. Subject to the remaining provisions of this Section concerning reductions
in the amount of the Letter of Credit, Tenant shall ensure that at all times during the Term of
this lease and for ninety (90) days after expiration of the Term, an unexpired Letter of Credit in
the face amount of the Security Deposit or cash in the amount of the Security Deposit shall be in
the possession of Landlord. Subject to such provisions, during the Term Tenant shall deliver a
replacement Letter of Credit to Landlord no later than thirty (30) days prior to the expiry date of
then outstanding and expiring Letter of Credit. In addition, unless

46

the total assets of the issuer of any outstanding Letter of Credit are $1 billion or more
(unless Landlord has previously approved a lesser figure) as established to the reasonable
satisfaction of Landlord, Landlord may require that Tenant deliver a replacement Letter of Credit
from another issuer satisfactory to Landlord within thirty (30) days after notice from Landlord to
Tenant requesting such replacement Letter of Credit. Failure by Tenant to deliver any replacement
Letter of Credit as required by the foregoing provisions shall entitle Landlord to draw under the
outstanding Letter of Credit and to retain the entire proceeds thereof for application as the
Security Deposit under this lease, but Landlord shall refund such proceeds to Tenant simultaneously
with later delivery by Tenant of a Letter of Credit conforming with this Section. Each Letter of
Credit shall be for the benefit of Landlord and its successors and assigns, shall be expressly
assignable, and shall entitle Landlord or its successors or assigns to draw from time to time under
the Letter of Credit in portions or in whole upon presentation of a sight draft accompanied by a
statement that Landlord is entitled to draw thereunder pursuant to the terms of this lease.

If Tenant defaults with respect to any provision of this lease, including but not limited to
the provisions relating to the payment of Rent, Landlord may draw under the Letter of Credit and
use or apply the proceeds drawn or any cash or other Security Deposit for the payment of Rent or
any other past due amount or for any amount which Landlord may spend or become obligated to spend
by reason of Tenant s default or to compensate Landlord for any other loss which Landlord may
suffer by reason of Tenant s default. If any portion of the proceeds are to be used or applied,
Tenant shall, within five (5) days after written demand therefor, restore the Security Deposit (by
either a cash deposit or delivery of a replacement Letter of Credit) to its original amount and
Tenant s failure to do so shall be a default and material breach of this lease. Except to the
extent required by law, Tenant shall not be entitled to interest for any period during which
Landlord is holding cash as a Security Deposit nor shall Landlord be required to keep such cash
Security Deposit separate from its or their general funds. Any cash Security Deposit which
Landlord is holding at the expiration of the lease term, or any balance thereof, and any
outstanding Letter of Credit shall be returned to Tenant (or at Landlord s option to the last
permitted assignee of Tenant s interest hereunder, if any) within thirty (30) days after the
expiration of the lease Term and Tenant s vacation of the Premises, provided Tenant is not then in
default hereunder, and to the extent not returned to Tenant because Tenant is in default under
this lease, shall be returned when any such default is cured, to the extent not applied to cure
such default or applied to other obligations of Tenant under this lease. Landlord may deliver the
Letter of Credit or any cash Security Deposit funds to the purchaser of Landlord s interest in the
Project, in the event that such interest is sold, transferred or conveyed, and thereupon Landlord
shall be discharged from any further liability with respect to the Security Deposit provided that
the transferee assumes Landlord s obligations with respect thereto.

If as of the respective dates on which the requirements of this sentence are satisfied for
the fiscal years indicated in the table below (each a   Security Deposit Reduction Date  ) (a)
Tenant is not then La default with respect to any provision of this lease and (b) Tenant s net
income for Tenant s most recent fiscal year is greater than $6,700,000.00 and Tenant has delivered
to

47

Landlord audited financial statements demonstrating that such condition has been met
(the   Net Income Test  ), Tenant shall have the right to deliver a replacement Letter of Credit,
as a substitute for the Letter of Credit then being held by Landlord hereunder, or an amendment
to the Letter of Credit then being held by Landlord hereunder, reducing the amount of the Letter
of Credit by the  Permitted Security Deposit Reduction  so that the outstanding Letter of Credit
shall be in the amount of the  Remaining Security Deposit Balance , as follows:

If the initial amount of the Security Deposit has been increased, the above schedule shall
be modified such that (a) twenty percent (20%) of the increased Security Deposit amount shall
become the  Permitted Security Deposit Reduction  amount on each of the first three Security
Deposit Reduction Dates described above, and (b) forty percent (40%) of the increased Security
Deposit amount shall become the  Permitted Security Deposit Reduction  amount on the final
Security Deposit Reduction Date described above. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, the first
Security Deposit Reduction Date shall not occur prior to the beginning of the second (2nd) Lease
Year and subsequent Security Deposit Reduction Dates shall not occur prior to the beginning of
the third (3rd), fourth (4th) and fifth (5th) Lease Years, respectively. All references in this
paragraph to fiscal years shall mean fiscal years of at least twelve (12) months each; any fiscal
years of less than twelve (12) months shall be deemed, for purposes of this paragraph, to be part
of the next succeeding fiscal year of at least twelve (12) months. Financial statements delivered
pursuant to this paragraph shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles in effect at the time and otherwise on a basis consistent with the financial
statements of Tenant delivered to Landlord prior to the execution of this lease (collectively as
used herein,   GAAP  ), be in a form reasonably satisfactory to Landlord, and be certified by
nationally

48

recognized independent certified public accountants or by other accountants
reasonably satisfactory to Landlord. If Tenant is not entitled to a reduction in any Letter of
Credit pursuant to this paragraph solely because Tenant is in default under this lease, Tenant may
take the benefit of such reduction when such default and any other subsequent defaults are cured.

If all or substantially all of the assets of Tenant are transferred to a third parry
transferee and assignee of this lease (  Transferee  ) with Landlord s consent pursuant to Article 15
hereof or in a transaction for which such consent is not required, and if said Transferee s net
income for its most recent three (3) fiscal years prior to the effective date of the assignment is
equal to or greater than $25,000,000 per annum (as evidenced by audited financial statements
prepared in accordance with GAAP in form reasonably satisfactory to Landlord) and Tenant is not in
default under this lease, then Landlord shall return any cash Security Deposit which Landlord is
then holding and any outstanding Letter of Credit to Tenant or, at Landlord s option, to said
Transferee within thirty (30) days after the effective date of such assignment and said Transferee,
as successor tenant, shall have no further requirement for delivery of any security deposit
hereunder. If Tenant and the transferee are not entitled to the return of any cash Security Deposit
and Letter of Credit pursuant to this paragraph solely because Tenant is in default under this
lease, the same shall be returned when such default and any other subsequent defaults are cured.

30.   INTENTIONALLY OMITTED   . 

31.   LANDLORD   .  The term   Landlord   as used in this lease means only the owner of
Landlord s interest in the Premises from time to time. In the event of any assignment, conveyance
or sale, once or successively, of Landlord s interest in the Premises or any assignment of this
lease by Landlord, said Landlord making such assignment, conveyance or sale shall be and hereby is
entirely freed and relieved of all covenants and obligations of Landlord hereunder accruing after
such assignment, conveyance or sale, and Tenant agrees to look solely to such assignee, grantee or
purchaser with respect thereto, who shall be deemed to have assumed the same for the period of its
ownership. The holder of a Mortgage (or assignment in connection with a Mortgage) shall not be
deemed such an assignee, grantee or purchaser under this Section 31 unless and until the
foreclosure of the Mortgage or the conveyance or transfer of Landlord s interest under this lease
in lieu of foreclosure, and then subject to the provisions of Section 20. This lease shall not be
affected by any such assignment, conveyance or sale, and Tenant agrees to attorn to the assignee,
grantee or purchaser.

32.   TITLE AND COVENANT AGAINST LIENS   .  Nothing in this lease contained shall empower
Tenant to do any act which can, shall or may encumber the title of Landlord. Tenant has no
authority or power to cause or permit any lien or encumbrance of any kind whatsoever, whether
created by act of Tenant, operation of law or otherwise, to attach to or be placed upon Landlord s
title or interest hi the Premises or any part of the Project, and any and all liens and
encumbrances created by Tenant shall attach to Tenant s interest only.

49

33.   COVENANT OF QUIET ENJOYMENT   .  Landlord agrees that provided no Default
by Tenant shall then exist, Tenant shall, during the Term, peaceably and quietly have, hold and
enjoy the Premises, subject to the terms, covenants, conditions, provisions and agreements of this
lease, free from hindrance by Landlord or any person claiming by, through or under Landlord.

34.   INITIAL GROWTH SPACE   .  (a) Following the date hereof and not later than the date
which is thirty (30) days following Landlord s approval of final plans and specifications for the
Tenant s Work pursuant to the Workletter, Tenant shall designate a portion of the Premises
consisting of not more than 10,000 square feet of Rentable Area (the exact area (subject to the
foregoing 10,000 square foot limitation), configuration and location of which shall be determined
by Tenant) as the  Initial Growth Space  under this lease by giving written notice of such
designation to Landlord. The Base Rent and Tenant s Proportionate Share set forth in Section 1 of
this lease for the first Lease Year have been calculated on the basis of 50,494 square feet of
Rentable Area, which is the Rentable Area of the initial Premises set forth in Section 1(k) above
of 60,494 square feet, less 10,000 square feet of Rentable Area as the estimated Initial Growth
Space. If the Initial Growth Space is less than 10,000 square feet of Rentable Area, then Base Rent
and Tenant s Proportionate Share for the first Lease Year shall be adjusted to reflect the actual
Rentable Area of the Initial Growth Space, and shall be subject to further adjustment pursuant to
the remaining provisions of this Section.

(b) Landlord shall deliver possession of the Initial Growth Space to Tenant concurrently with
delivery of possession of the remainder of the Premises  (i.e.,  shall deliver possession of the
entire Premises to Tenant notwithstanding that a portion thereof may have been or shall later be
designated the Initial Growth Space), Tenant shall construct Tenant s Work in the Initial Growth
Space concurrently with the construction of Tenant s Work in the remainder of the Premises, and the
Initial Growth Space shall otherwise be included in the Premises from and after the date hereof for
all purposes of this lease (i) except as expressly provided to the contrary elsewhere in this lease
and (ii) except that Tenant shall not occupy any portion of the Initial Growth Space prior to the
first day of the second Lease Year for any purpose other than for the construction of Tenant s Work
therein without first complying with this Section.

(c) If Tenant desires to occupy all or a portion of the Initial Growth Space during the first
Lease Year for any purpose other than for the construction of Tenant s Work therein, Tenant shall
give not less than five (5) days  written notice to Landlord to that effect (a   Phase-In Notice  ),
designating in the Phase-In Notice the portion (if less than all) of the Initial Growth Space which
Tenant desires to so occupy (  Phase-In Space  ) and the intended date of such occupancy (a   Phase-In
Date  ). Tenant may not give more than three (3) Phase-In Notices, and no Phase-In Notice shall
designate less than 3,000 square feet of Rentable Area of Initial Growth Space as Phase-In Space.
Effective as of each Phase-In Date (or any earlier date on which Tenant first begins to conduct any
business operations in the related Phase-In Space):

50

(i) 
       
     annual Base Rent shall be
increased by the product of $15.00 times the Rentable Area of
such Phase-In Space, and Monthly Base Rent shall be adjusted
accordingly; and 

(ii) 
       
     Tenant s Proportionate Share shall be
recalculated to reflect the Rentable Area of such Phase-In
Space. 

35.   RIGHT OF FIRST OFFER   .  Subject to the provisions hereinafter set forth, Landlord
hereby grants to Tenant the right to lease, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth,
each portion of the space on the 21st and 25th floors of the Building (the   First Offer Space  )
which Landlord proposes to lease for any term commencing during the First Offer Period (as
hereinafter defined).

(a) If Landlord is in serious discussions with a party other than Tenant concerning a
lease of any portion of the First Offer Space for a term commencing during the First Offer
Period (which shall include, in order to constitute serious discussions, delivery by
Landlord to such party of an initial proposal for the leasing of such portion of the First
Offer Space and at least one revised proposal), and in any event prior to leasing any
portion of the First Offer Space for a term commencing during the First Offer Period,
Landlord shall give Tenant written notice of the location and Rentable Area of such portion
of the First Offer Space, the date of commencement of the term of the demise, as determined
by Landlord, with respect to such portion of the First Offer Space (the   First Offer Space
Commencement Date  ) and the rental rate for such portion of the First Offer Space
(determined as hereinafter provided). The First Offer Space Commencement Date shall not be
less than thirty (30) days after the date such notice is given by Landlord unless such
portion of the First Offer Space has or will become available for leasing by reason of early
termination of a lease, in which case the First Offer Space Commencement Date shall not be
less than ten (10) days after the date such notice is given by Landlord.

(b) Tenant s right to lease the First Offer Space described in such a notice from
Landlord shall be exercisable by written notice from Tenant to Landlord of Tenant s election
to exercise said right (a   First Offer Exercise Notice  ) given not later than seven (7)
business days after Landlord s notice is given, time being of the essence. If such right is
not so exercised, Tenant s right of first offer shall thereupon terminate as to such portion
of the First Offer Space, and Landlord may thereafter lease and re-lease such portion of the
First Offer Space without notice to Tenant and free of any right in Tenant. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, Landlord shall not enter into a lease of any such portion of the First Offer
Space without again giving the notice referred to above if the net present value as of the
proposed commencement date of such lease expressed as a single dollar figure, discounted
using a rate of ten percent (10%) per annum, of all rent (other than such Tenant s
Additional Rent) of whatever nature or however denominated for the term of such lease, less
the net present value of any rent concessions, construction allowances, tenant

51

improvement work and other relevant economic concessions, discounted at the same rate, is less
than eighty-five percent (85%) of the comparable amount determined by using the economic terms set
forth in Landlord s notice to Tenant regarding such First Offer
Space (as adjusted on a
proportional basis to reflect any differences in the size of space or length of the term). In
addition, if Landlord shall not have leased such First Offer Space within the period ending six (6)
months following the date of Landlord s notice to Tenant regarding such First Offer Space plus, if
Landlord is negotiating with a particular potential, tenant at the time such period expires, such
additional period during which Landlord continues to negotiate with such potential tenant,
Landlord shall not enter into a lease of any such portion of the First Offer Space without again
giving the notice referred to above. Tenant may not elect to lease less than the entire area of the
First Offer Space described in a Landlord s notice, and if a third-party lease would include all or
a portion of the First Offer Space together with other space in the Building which is not First
Offer Space, Tenant must exercise its right for such First Offer
Space and such other space.

(c) Tenant may only exercise its right to lease a portion of the First Offer Space,
and an exercise thereof shall only be effective, if at the time of Tenant s exercise of
said right and on the pertinent First Offer Space Commencement Date this lease is in
full force and effect and Tenant is not in Default under this lease, and (inasmuch as
this right of first offer is intended only for the benefit of the original Tenant named
in this lease and any Tenant Successors and Tenant Affiliates) at least 45,000 square
feet of Rentable Area of the Premises is occupied by the original Tenant named herein or
a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate, this lease has not been assigned other than to
a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate, not more than 15,000 square feet of Rentable
Area of the Premises is subject to subleases other than subleases to Tenant Successors or
Tenant Affiliates, and Landlord has not terminated this lease as to any part of the
Premises pursuant to Section 15 above. Without limitation of the foregoing, no sublessee, and no
assignee other than a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate, shall be entitled to exercise any
right hereunder, and no exercise of any right hereunder by the original Tenant named herein or a
Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate shall be effective in the event said Tenant or Tenant
Successor or Tenant Affiliate assigns this lease prior to the pertinent First Offer Space
Commencement Date other than to a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate or more than 15,000 square
feet of Rentable Area of the Premises is subject to subleases as of the pertinent First Offer Space
Commencement Date other than subleases to Tenant Successors or Tenant Affiliates or Landlord
terminates this lease as to any part of the Premises pursuant to Section 15 above prior to the
pertinent First Offer Space Commencement Date.

(d) If Tenant has validly exercised its right to lease a portion of the First Offer
Space, then effective as of the First Offer Space Commencement Date such portion of the
First Offer Space shall be included in the Premises, subject to all of the terms,
conditions and provisions of this lease, except that:

52

(i) 
       
     except as hereinafter provided, Base Rent per square foot of Rentable Area for such
portion of the First Offer Space shall be equal to the Market Rental Rate (as hereinafter
defined) for such First Offer Space; 

(ii) 
       
     the Rentable Area of the Premises shall be increased by the Rentable Area of such
portion of the First Offer Space; 

(iii) 
       
     the term of the demise covering such portion of the First Offer Space shall commence on
the First Offer Space Commencement Date and shall expire simultaneously with the expiration of the Term of this lease, including any extension or
renewal thereof; and 

(iv) 
       
     except as hereinafter provided, the First Offer Space shall be rented in its  as is 
condition as of the First Offer Space Commencement Date (inasmuch as tenant improvement
work, allowances, and time for construction of tenant improvements, if any, will be
reflected in the Market Rental Rate pursuant to Section 38 below). 

Notwithstanding clauses (i) and (iv) above, with respect to any portion of the First Offer Space on
the 25th floor of the Building as to which Tenant is entitled to, and does, give a First Offer
Exercise Notice prior to the end of the second Lease Year:

(A) 
       
     Base Rent per square foot of Rentable Area for such portion of the
First Offer Space for the Lease Year in which the related First Offer Space
Commencement Date occurs and for subsequent Lease Years shall be at the same
respective rates as Base Rent for the initial Premises as determined pursuant to
Section l(b) above; and 

(B) 
       
     Tenant shall be entitled to allowances for such portion of the First
Offer Space in the same amounts per square foot of Rentable Area as provided for in
the Workletter for the initial Premises, prorated by multiplying such amounts by the ratio which the number of full calendar months in the Initial Term of this
lease from and after the pertinent First Offer Space Commencement Date bears to 120
months If any additional Allowance is paid for such First Offer Space, Base Rent
for such portion of the First Offer Space shall be increased pursuant to
Section l(b) above on account 

53

thereof in the same manner as Base Rent for
the initial Premises, except that the increase in Base Rent shall be effective
as of the pertinent First Offer Space Commencement Date and the amortization shall
be based on the remaining number of months of the Initial Term thereafter. 

(e) If Tenant has validly exercised its right to lease a portion of the First Offer Space,
within thirty (30) days after request by either party hereto
Landlord and Tenant shall enter into
a written amendment to this lease confirming the terms, conditions and provisions applicable to
such portion of the First Offer Space as determined in accordance herewith.

(f)
If Tenant has validly exercised its right to lease a portion of the First Offer Space,
Landlord shall use reasonable efforts to deliver possession of such First Offer Space to Tenant on
the pertinent First Offer Space Commencement Date, but in the event Landlord should be unable for
any reason to do so, Landlord shall not be subject to any liability for failure to deliver
possession, Such failure to deliver possession shall not affect either the validity of this lease
or the obligations of either Landlord or Tenant hereunder or be construed to extend the expiration
of the Term of this lease either as to such portion of the First Offer Space or the balance of the
Premises provided, however, that under such circumstances, rent shall not commence as to such
portion of the First Offer Space until Landlord is able to deliver possession, and if Base Rent for such portion of
the First Offer Space will be the Market Rental Rate, such Base Rent shall be adjusted to reflect
the reduction in the length of the term of the lease of such portion of the First Offer Space to
the extent that the length of such term had an effect on the computation of the Market Rental
Rate.

(g) In the event any portion of the First Offer Space is leased to Tenant other than pursuant
to the right of first offer described herein, such portion of the First Offer Space shall thereupon
be deleted from the First Offer Space.

(h) Tenant s rights to lease the portion of the First Offer Space on the 21st floor of the
Building are subject to the rights of KPMG Peat Marwick;existing on the date hereof to lease such
portion of the First Offer Space (or portions thereof). Tenant s rights to lease the First Offer
Space are also subject to any rights to lease the First Offer Space or portions thereof granted in
any lease of First Offer Space entered into by Landlord and a third party following notice to
Tenant in accordance with this Section and Tenant s failure to lease such space pursuant to this
Section, to the extent that Landlord s notice identified such rights; and to Landlord s right to
extend or renew the lease of any tenant occupying any portion of the First Offer Space even if not
pursuant to an option contained in its lease.

54

(i)
As used herein, the term  First Offer Period  shall mean the Term of this lease
and all extensions and renewals thereof, provided, however, that the
First Offer
Period shall not include the last two (2) years of the initial or any extension or
renewal : term unless, as to the Initial Term, Tenant has exercised the option
granted to Tenant in this lease to extend the Term hereof or renew this lease for the
additional period following such Initial Term or Landlord and Tenant have entered
into an amendment to this lease extending the Term for an additional period or a new
lease for the Premises.

36.  EXPANSION
OPTION . Subject to the provisions hereinafter set forth,Landlord hereby grants to
Tenant the option to lease, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, space (the
  Expansion Space  ) within the area on the 25th floor of the Building shown on Exhibit I to this
Lease (the   Total Expansion Space  ), the exact area, configuration and location of the Expansion
Space and the date of commencement of the term of the demise with respect to the Expansion Space
(the   Expansion Space Commencement Date  ) to be designated by Landlord within the parameters set
forth below.

(a) Landlord shall determine the portion of the Total Expansion
Space to be made available for lease by Tenant as the Expansion Space
(without regard to whether other portions of the Total Expansion Space may
also be available for leasing) and the Expansion Space Commencement Date,
subject to the following conditions:

(i) 
       
     the area of the Expansion Space shall be 10,000 square feet of Rentable Area, plus or
minus 20%; 

(ii) 
       
     the Expansion Space shall include the portion of the 25 th  floor of the Building
where an existing staircase connects . the 24th and 25th floors, unless such portion of the
25 th  floor has been leased by Tenant pursuant to its right to lease First Offer Space or
otherwise leased by Tenant; and 

(iii) 
       
     the Expansion Space Commencement Date shall fall within the
period commencing on the first
day of the sixth Lease Year and ending on the last day of the sixth
month of the seventh
Lease Year. 

(b) Tenant s option to lease the Expansion Space shall be exercisable by written
notice from Tenant to Landlord of Tenant s election to exercise said option given not
earlier than the first day of the fifth Lease Year and not later than the last day of the
sixth month of the fifth Lease Year, time being of the essence. If Tenant s option is not
so exercised, said option shall thereupon terminate and Tenant shall not thereafter have
any right to lease any portion of the Total Expansion Space pursuant to this expansion
option.

55

Tenant may not elect to lease less than the entire area of the. Expansion Space designated
by Landlord!

(c) Landlord shall give Tenant written notice of the location and Rentable Area of the
Expansion Space, the Expansion Space Commencement Date, and the Market Rental Rate for the
Expansion Space within sixty (60) days after Tenant s exercise of its option to lease the
Expansion Space.

(d) Tenant may only exercise said option, and an exercise thereof shall only be effective, if
at the time of Tenant s exercise of said option and on the Expansion Space.Commencement Date this
lease is in full force and effect and tenant is not in Default under this lease, and (inasmuch as
said option is intended only for the benefit of the original Tenant named in this lease and any
Tenant Successors and Tenant Affiliates) at least 45,000 square feet of Rentable Area of the
Premises is occupied by the original Tenant named herein or a tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate,
this lease has not been assigned other. than to a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate, not more
than 15,000 square . feet of Rentable Area of the Premises is subject to subleases other than
subleases to Tenant Successors or Tenant Affiliates, and Landlord has not terminated this lease as
to any part ... , of the Premises pursuant to Section 15 above. Without limitation of the.
foregoing, no sublessee, and no assignee other man a tenant Successor or tenant Affiliate, shall be
entitled to exercise said; option, and no exercise of said option by the original tenant     named
herein or a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate shall be effective in the event said . Tenant or
Tenant Successor or tenant Affiliate assigns this lease prior to the Expansion Space Commencement
Date other than to a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate or more than 15,000 square feet of
Rentable Area of the Premises is subject to subleases other than subleases to Tenant Successors or
Tenant Affiliates as of the Expansion Space Commence-ment Date or Landlord terminates this lease as
to any part of the Premises pursuant to Section 15 above prior to, the Expansion Space Commencement
Date. .

(e) If Tenant has validly exercised its option to lease the Expansion Space, then
effective as of the Expansion Space Commencement Date the Expansion Space shall be included in the
Premises, subject to all of the terms, conditions and provisions of this lease, except that:

(i) 
       
     Base Rent per square foot of Rentable Area for the Expansion Space shall be equal to the Market
Rental Rate for the Expansion Space; 

(ii) 
       
     the Rentable Area of the Premises shall be increased by the Rentable Area of the Expansion
Space; 

56

(iii) 
       
     the term of the demise covering the Expansion Space shall commence on the Expansion Space
Commencement Date and shall expire simultaneously with the expiration or earlier termination of me
Term of this tease, including any extension or renewal thereof; and 

(iv) 
       
     the Expansion Space shall be rented in its  as is  condition as of the Expansion Space
Commencement Date (inasmuch as tenant improvement work, allowances, and time for 
construction of tenant improvements, if any, will be reflected in the Market Rental Rate pursuant
to Section 38 below). 

(f) If Tenant has validly exercised its option to lease the. Expansion Space, within thirty
(30) days after request by other party hereto landlord and Tenant shall enter into a written
amendment to this lease confirming the terms, conditions and. provisions applicable to the
Expansion Space as determined in accordance herewith.    

(g) If Tenant has validly exercised its option to lease the Expansion Space, Landlord shall
use reasonable efforts to deliver possession of the Expansion Space on the Expansion Space
Commencement Date, but, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 36(a)(iii) above, in the event Landlord should be unable for any reason to deliver
possession of the Expansion Space on the Expansion Space Commencement Date, Landlord shall not
be subject to any liability for failure to deliver possession. Such failure to deliver
possession.shall not affect either the validity of this lease:or the obligations of either Landlord
or Tenant hereunder or be construed to extend the expiration of the Term of this lease either as to
the Expansion Space or the balance of the Premises; provided,
however, that under such circumstances, rent shall not commence as to the Expansion Space until
Landlord is able to deliver possession, and Base Rent for the Expansion Space shall be adjusted to
reflect the reduction in the length of the term of the. lease of the Expansion Space to the extent
that the length of such term had an effect on the computation of the Market Rental Rate for the
Expansion Space.

(h) : In the event the portion of the Total Expansion Space which includes an existing
staircase connecting the 24th and 25th floors of the Building is leased to Tenant other than
pursuant to the expansion option described herein; such portion of the total Expansion Space shall
thereupon be deleted from the Total Expansion Space and the minimum area which Landlord may
designate as the Expansion Space pursuant to Section 36(a)(i) above shall be reduced by the
Rentable Area of such portion of the Total Expansion Space.

57

37. RENEWAL OPTION. Subject to the provisions hereinafter set forth, landlord hereby
grants to Tenant an option to extend the Term of this lease on the same terms, conditions . and
provisions as contained in this lease, except as otherwise provided herein, for one period of: five
(5) years (the  Renewal Period ) after the expiration of the Term, which Renewal Period shall
commence on the first day of the eleventh Lease Year (the  Renewal Period Commencement Date ) and
end on the last day of the fifteenth Lease Year.

(a) Said option shall be exercisable by written notice from Tenant to Landlord of
Tenant s election to exercise said option given not later than the date which is twelve
(12) months prior to the Renewal Period Commencement Date, time being of the essence.
If Tenant s option is not so exercised, said option shall thereupon expire.

(b) Tenant may only exercise said option, and an exercise thereof shall only be
effective, if at the tune of Tenant s exercise of said option and on the Renewal Period
Commencement Date this lease is in full force and effect and Tenant is not in default tinder
this lease, and (inasmuch as said option is intended only for the benefit of the original
Tenant named in this lease and any Tenant Successors and Tenant Affiliates) at least
45,000 square feet of Rentable Area of the Premises is: occupied, by the original Tenant
herein or a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate, this lease has not been assigned
other than to a Tenant Successor or Tenant. Affiliate, not more than 15,000 square feet of
Rentable Area of the Premises is subject to subleases other than subleases to Tenant
Successors or Tenant Affiliates, and Landlord has not terminated this lease as to arjy part
of the Premises pursuant to Section 15 above. Without limitation of the foregoing, no
sublessee, and no. assignee other than a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate, shall be
entitled to exercise said option, and no exercise of said option by the original Tenant
named herein or a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate shall be effective in the event said
Tenant or Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate assigns this lease prior to the Renewal
Period Commencement Date other than to a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate or more
than 15,000 square feet of Rentable Area of the Premises is subject to subleases other than
subleases to Tenant Successors or Tenant Affiliates as of the Renewal Period Commence-
ment Date or Landlord terminates this lease as to any part of the Premises pursuant to
Section 15 above prior to the Renewal Period Commencement Date.

(c) Rent per square foot of Rentable Area of the Premises payable during the Renewal Period
with respect to all space included in the Premises as of the Renewal Period Commencement Date shall
be equal to the Market Rental Rate for the Premises. Landlord shall give Tenant written notice of
the Market Rental Rate within thirty (30) days following written request by Tenant made not earlier
than forty-five (45) days prior to the . Renewal Period Commencement Date.

(d) If Tenant has validly exercised said option, within thirty (30) days after
request by either party hereto Landlord and Tenant shall enter into a written amendment

58

to this lease confirming the terms, conditions and provisions applicable to the Renewal
Period as determined in accordance herewith, with such revisions to the rental provisions of this
lease as may be necessary to conform such provisions to the Market Rental Rate. .

(e) Tenant shall not have any option to extend the Term of this lease beyond the expiration of the
Renewal Period. 

38.   MARKET
RENTAL RATE .   As used herein, the term   Market Rental
Rate  
per square foot of Rentable Area shall mean (i) the annual rate of net rent reasonably
determined by Landlord to be the prevailing market net rental rate for comparable tenants for
leases of comparable office space at the Building which has been built out for occupancy (taking
into consideration the duration of the terms for which such space is being leased, location and/or
floor level within the Building, when the applicable rate first becomes effective and other
comparable     factors; reflecting (i.e., reduced to reflect that prevailing concessions will not be
provided to Tenant in kind)) prevailing concessions, such as, but not limited to ,  rental
concessions, tenant improvement work, design, construction and moving allowances, and time for
construction of tenant improvements; and assuming that leasing commissions will be paid) for terms
commencing on or about the First Offer .Space Commencement Date, Expansion Space Commencement Date
or Renewal Period Commencement Date (as the case may be), or, if there is no comparable space or
recent comparable transactions in the Building, then in comparable buildings in the area of
downtown Chicago, Illinois in which the Building is located, plus (ii) additional components of the
Market Rental Rate, which may include, among the other then prevailing components of rent, periodic
adjustments or additions to. a fixed rent based on a share of real estate taxes and other expenses
(such as Additional Rent) and increases to adjust for inflation. Bona fide written offers to lease
comparable space at the Building received by Landlord from third parties (at arm s length) . or
given by Landlord to third parties (at arm s length) may be used by Landlord as an indication of
the Market Rental Rate. .

39.   BUILDING DIRECTORY; LOBBY SIGNAGE .  (a) A Building directory in the lobby will be included
in the Landlord s Work under the Workletter. Tenant shall be provided with space on the directory,
when installed, for entries for the name of Tenant and a reasonable number of Tenant s designated
personnel (but with total entries not exceeding Tenant s Proportionate Share of directory entries
unless Landlord otherwise agrees in its sole discretion). Tenant shall pay Landlord for the cost of
any substitution in name entries following the initial . installation of Tenant s directory
entries.

(b) Within nine (9) months following the Commencement Date, Landlord shall provide and install
lobby identification for Tenant at a location and of a size, design and materials determined by
Landlord in its sole and absolute discretion. Tenant s rights, to lobby identification are
non-exclusive. The rights under this Section shall be available only to the original Tenant named
in this lease and any Tenant Successor and their respective Tenant Affiliates, and only so long as
such are leasing and occupying at least 50,000 square feet of Rentable Area in the

59

Building. Tenant shall pay Landlord for the cost of any change in the name to be displayed in
the lobby, following the initial installation of the lobby identification provided for in
this Section.

40.   SATELLITE DISH .  Subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, Landlord
grants to Tenant, during the Term, the right to install, maintain, repair and replace a satellite
or microwave dish relating to Tenant s business in the Premises on the roof of the Building where
designated by Landlord, for receiving signals relayed by satellite and, except as otherwise
provided, to connect such equipment through existing mechanical shafts to the Premises.

(a) .If Tenant desires to exercise such right, Tenant shall give a written notice
to that effect to Landlord (a  Satellite Notice ). The Satellite Notice shall specify in detail
the requirements of such installation, all of which shall be subject to the approval of
Landlord. Landlord shall not unreasonably withhold its approval provided that the use of
the roof for such purposes shall (i) be compatible with Landlord s use of the roof, (ii) be
subject to Landlord s supervision, (iii) not adversely affect the structural safety or integrity
of the Building, (iv) meet reasonable aesthetic and other standards of Landlord and
Landlord s architect and : (v) satisfy other conditions hereinafter set forth. If Landlord
approves Tenant s use of the roof for such purposes. Landlord shall designate by written
notice to Tenant an appropriate area for such installation ( Installation Area ). Landlord
shall use good faith efforts to select an Installation Area which will be consistent with
adequate reception. The right granted to Tenant under this Section shall be subject to the
following conditions precedent:(l) there must be available space on the roof and existing
mechanical shafts from the roof to the Premises for Tenant s, proposed installation;
(2) Landlord s architect shall approve of the location of the Installation Area (acting
reasonably) and the appearance of those portions of the equipment to be visible to the
public; (3) Landlord s structural engineer shall approve of the location of the Installation
Area (acting reasonably), the design and specifications of the equipment, the load caused
on roof of the Building by such equipment, and other structural requirements of the
installation; (4) The installation must comply with the applicable requirements of any
covenant, condition or restriction of record and any municipal, county, state, federal or
other governmental ordinance, law, rule or regulation including, but not limited to zoning .
ordinances; and (5) the installation and operation of such equipment shall not interfere with
the safety or operations of the Building or reduce or affect its structural integrity, and shall
comply with me terms of this lease.

(b)
Tenant shall pay all costs and expenses of any kind related to the
installation, operation, maintenance or removal of its communication equipment, including
any reasonable architect s or engineering fees incurred in connection with required
approvals, but Tenant shall not be obligated to pay any fee for the roof or access thereto.
Tenant shall maintain all such equipment in good repair. Tenant shall be responsible for
any damage, loss or injury to the Building or other property and for any injury to persons
caused by installation; operation, maintenance or removal of such equipment. Upon the

60

expiration or earlier termination of this lease, Tenant shall, at its sole cost and expense,
(i) remove the commmunication equipment and restore that portion of the roof of the Building
where the communications equipment was located to its condition existing prior  to the
installation thereof, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and (ii) repair any damage or destruction
caused by such removal. Restoration and repair herein required to be performed by Tenant shall be
completed under the supervision of Landlord or Landlord s
representative. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant shall not remove, and shall not be
reimbursed for the cost thereof, any portion of the communication equipment which is embedded or
permanently attached in or to the Building including, but not limited to, cables and other wiring,
unless Landlord so directs otherwise. To the extent not expressly prohibited by law, Tenant agrees
to hold Landlord and its beneficiaries, and their agents, servants and employees, harmless and to
indemnify each of them against claims and liabilities, including reasonable attorney s fees, for
injuries to persons and damage to or theft, misappropriation or loss, of property occurring in or
about the Building and arising out of the installation, maintenance, operation, removal or other
use of the communications equipment installed hereunder.

41.   PARKING   . 
During the Term, Tenant shall be entitled to have up to fifteen (15) cars parked
in the garage below the concourse level of the Building, so long as Tenant
pays the parking charges in effect from time to time (at monthly rates, if monthly rates are
then being charged), subject to the terms and conditions, including parking rules and regulations,
applicable from time to time to parking in the garage. In that connection, Tenant may be required
to periodically execute standard parking agreements. Tenant shall pay parking charges for all
parking provided for hereunder, whether or not Tenant does, in fact, utilize such parking. If
Tenant, at any time, fails to contract for, or otherwise pay the parking charges relating to, any
one or more of the parking spaces being made available to Tenant under this Section (each such
parking space being referred to as a   Waived Space  ), then Tenant shall forfeit its rights relative
to each such Waived Space, and Landlord shall have no further obligation to offer such Waived
Space to Tenant during the balance of the Term hereof. Landlord shall not be liable to Tenant in
damages or otherwise under any circumstances for failure to provide parking if at any time Landlord
or the garage operator is legally restricted from operating a parking garage or providing parking
below the concourse level of the Building or otherwise unable to do so for reasons beyond its
reasonable control, and in no event shall Tenant have any right to terminate this lease due to
Landlord s failure to make parking available as required under this Section. Spaces will not be
reserved for Tenant, except that if Landlord converts parking spaces in the garage to reserved
spaces, Tenant will be entitled to convert a pro rata share (if at least one full space) of the
parking spaces then available to Tenant under this Section to reserved parking. Access to and from
the parking garage will be available 24 hours per day, seven days per week, subject to reasons
beyond Landlord s reasonable control, including, but not limited to, default by the garage
operator.

42.   BUILDING MANAGEMENT  . Landlord shall manage the Building in a manner consistent with other
first-class office buildings in downtown Chicago.

61

43.  EXCULPATORY
PROVISIONS .  The liability of any Landlord under this lease or any amendment to
this lease, or any instrument or document executed in connection with this lease, shall be
limited to and enforceable solely against the assets of such Landlord constituting an interest in
the Project and not other assets of such Landlord. Assets of a Landlord which is a partnership or
limited liability company do not include the assets of the partners or members of such landlord,
and any negative capital account of a partner or member in a partnership or limited liability
company which is a Landlord, and any obligation of a partner or member to contribute capital to the
partnership or limited liability company which is Landlord, shall not be deemed to be assets of the
partnership or limited liability company which is the Landlord. No directors, officers, employees,
managers, members, or shareholders of any corporation or limited liability company which is
Landlord shall have any personal liability arising from or in connection with this lease. At any
time during which Landlord is trustee of a land trust, all of the representations, warranties,
covenants and conditions to be performed by it under this lease or any documents or instruments
executed in connection with this lease are undertaken solely as trustee, as aforesaid, and not
individually, and no personal liability shall be asserted or be enforceable against it or any of
the beneficiaries under said trust agreement by reason of any of the representations, warranties,
covenants or conditions contained in this lease or any documents or instruments executed in
connection with this lease.

62

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this lease to be executed as of the date first
written above

LANDLORD:

TENANT: 

303 WACKER REALTY L.L.C.,

PROMOTIONAL MARKETING, 

a Delaware limited liability

L.L.C., an Illinois limited liability 

company

company d/b/a UPSHOT 

By: 
       
     Hines Three Illinois Center Associates 
Limited Partnership, its managing member 

By: 
       
      ILLEGIBLE  

By: 
       
     Bines Three Illinois Center L.L.C.,
a general partner 

Its  
       
     CEO 

By: 
       
     Hines Interests Limited
Partnership, a member. 

By: 
       
     Hines Holding, Inc., its
general partner 

By :   

Name:  

Title:  

63

AMENDMENT
TO LEASE  

This Amendment to Lease is made and entered into this 27th day of August 1998, by and
between 303 Wacker Realty L.L.C. ( Landlord ) and Promotional Marketing, L.L.C. d/b/a Upshot
( Tenant ).

A,
Landlord and Tenant entered into an Office Lease dated June 30, 1998 (the
 Lease ), pursuant to which Landlord leased to Tenant and Tenant accepted from Landlord
approximately 60,494 square feet of Rentable Area, being the entire 23rd and 24th floors
of the building commonly known as 303 East Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois.

B. The parties desire to amend the Lease as hereinafter set forth, but not
otherwise.

In consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants hereinafter contained, and
in consideration of the execution and delivery by HA-LO Industries, Inc. of a Guaranty in
the form attached hereto, as Exhibit A, it is hereby agreed as follows:

1. Section l(m) is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:  (m)  Security
Deposit : None. 

2. Section 29 of the Lease is hereby deleted in its entirety.

3. Section 27 of the Lease is hereby amended to add, as an additional addressee of
any notice to Tenant, the following:

HA-LO Industries, Inc. 
5980 West Touhy Avenue 
Niles, Illinois 
Attention: Barry Margolin

With a copy to:

Stone, Pogrund   Korey 
221 N. LaSalle 
32nd Floor 
Chicago, Illinois 60601 
Attention: David Pogrund

4. Exhibit H to the Lease is hereby deleted in its entirety.

5. The second sentence of Paragraph 9(a) of the Workletter (Exhibit C) is hereby
amended to delete  (i)  and all of clause (ii).

6.  Except as herein specifically amended, the Lease shall continue in full force and
effect.

The parties hereto have hereunder set their hands and seals the day and year first above
written

LANDLORD:

TENANT: 

303 WACKER REALTY L.L.C.,

PROMOTIONAL MARKETING, 

a Delaware limited liability

L.L.C., an Illinois limited liability 

company

company d/b/a UPSHOT 

By: 
       
     Hines Three Illinois Center Associates 
Limited Partnership, its managing member 

By: 
       
      ILLEGIBLE  

By: 
       
     Hines Three Illinois Center L.L.C.,
a general partner 

Its  
       
     CEO 

By: 
       
     Hines Interests Limited
Partnership, a member. 

By: 
       
     Hines Holding, Inc., its
general partner 

By : 

Name:

C. Kevin Shannahan 

Title:

Executive Vice 
President 

-2-

GUARANTY  

THIS
GUARANTY  (the  Guaranty ) is made and entered into as
of this 26 th  day of
August, 1998, by the undersigned (the  Guarantor ) who, having received a copy of that certain
Office Lease dated June 30, 1998 and the amendment thereof of even date with this Guaranty (said
Office Lease, as amended by such amendment, being herein referred to as the  lease ) between 303
WACKER REALTY L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company ( Landlord ), and PROMOTIONAL MARKETING,
L.L.C., an Illinois limited liability company d/b/a UPSHOT ( Tenant ), has examined the Lease and
is familiar with all the terms, covenants and provisions contained therein, and as an inducement to
Landlord to enter into the Lease, does hereby unconditionally guarantee to Landlord: (i) the full
and prompt payment of all Base Rent, Additional Rent and other items of Rent and all other sums and
charges payable by Tenant under the Lease; (ii) the full and timely performance and observance of
all the covenants, terms, conditions, and agreements therein provided to be performed and observed
by Tenant; (iii) the full and prompt payment of all costs, expenses and reasonable attorneys  fees
incurred by Landlord in enforcing the Lease and/or this Guaranty; and (iv) the full and prompt
payment to Landlord of the amount of any payments made to Landlord which are recovered from
Landlord by a trustee, receiver or creditor of the Guarantor or Tenant pursuant to applicable law;
and the Guarantor hereby covenants and agrees to and with Landlord that if default shall at any
time be made by Tenant in the payment of any Base Rent, Additional Rent, other items of Rent, or
any other sum or charge payable by Tenant under said Lease, or if Tenant should default in the
performance and observance of any of the covenants, terms, conditions, or agreements contained in
said Lease, the Guarantor will forthwith pay such rent and such other sums and charges to Landlord,
and any arrears thereof, and shall forthwith faithfully perform and fulfill all of such terms,
covenants, conditions, and agreements.

This Guaranty is an absolute and unconditional guaranty of payment and of performance, and not
of collection. It shall be enforceable against the Guarantor without the necessity of any suit or
proceedings on Landlord s part of any kind or nature whatsoever against Tenant and without the
necessity of any notice of nonpayment, nonperformance or nonobservance or of any notice of
acceptance of this Guaranty or of any other notice or demand to which the Guarantor might otherwise
be entitled, all of which the Guarantor hereby expressly waives; and the Guarantor hereby expressly
agrees that the validity of this Guaranty and the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall in
no way be terminated, affected, diminished, or impaired by reason of the assertion or the failure
to assert by Landlord against Tenant, or against Tenant s successors and assigns, any of the rights
or remedies reserved to Landlord pursuant to the provisions of said Lease or by relief of Tenant
from any of Tenant s obligations under the Lease or otherwise, including, but not by way of
limitation, the rejection of said Lease in connection with proceedings under the bankruptcy laws
now or hereafter in effect.

This Guaranty shall be a continuing guaranty and the liability of the Guarantor hereunder
shall in no way be affected, modified or diminished by reason of any assignment, renewal, further
modification, or extension of the Lease or by reason of any modification or waiver of or change in

any of the terms, covenants, conditions, or provisions of the Lease, or by reason of any extension
of time that may be granted by Landlord to Tenant, or a changed or different use of the Leased
Premises, or by reason of any dealings or transactions or matters or things occurring between
Landlord and Tenant, whether or not notice thereof is given to the Guarantor.

It is agreed that the failure of Landlord to insist in any one or more instances upon strict
performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions or covenants of the Lease or to exercise
any right therein contained shall not be construed or deemed to be a waiver or relinquishment for
the future of such term, provision, covenant or right, but the same shall continue and remain in
full force and effect.

No assignment or other transfer of the Lease, or any interest therein, shall operate to
extinguish or diminish the liability of the undersigned hereunder.

This Guaranty shall continue to be effective, or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at
anytime any whole or partial payment of the rental or other lease obligations guaranteed hereunder
is or is sought to be rescinded or must otherwise be disgorged, restored or returned by Landlord
upon the insolvency, bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization of Tenant or the
undersigned (or any other guarantor) or upon or as a result of the appointment of a receiver,
intervenor or conservator of, or trustee or similar officer for, Tenant or the undersigned (or any
other guarantor) or of or for any substantial pan of the property owned by Tenant, all as though
such payments or performance, to the extent so rescinded or otherwise disgorged, restored or
returned, had not been made. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this Guaranty shall
remain in full force and effect until one (1) full calendar year has elapsed since the full payment
of all rental and other guaranteed lease obligations (or, in the event of a determination by
Landlord that the  reachback  or preference period under the Federal Bankruptcy Code is extended
for a period longer than one (1) year, such applicable longer period as may be required by notice
to the undersigned from Landlord), and, in such case, thereafter if and for so long as there is
pending at the end of such one year (or longer) period against either of Tenant or the undersigned
(or any other guarantor) a proceeding under any federal or state bankruptcy or insolvency laws.

The Guarantor hereby unconditionally waives (a) presentment, notice of dishonor, protest,
demand for payment, and all notices of any kind, including, without limitation, notice of
acceptance hereof; notice of nonpayment, non-performance, or other default under the Lease; and
notice of any action taken to collect upon or enforce any of the terms and provisions of the Lease;
(b) any subrogation to the rights of Landlord against Tenant until all of the obligations of Tenant
under the Lease have been fully complied with and the Lease has expired or terminated and such
payments made by the Guarantor are not subject to a right of recovery; and (c) any setoffs or
counterclaims against Landlord (except for any setoffs or counterclaims which may be expressly
provided for in the Lease) which would otherwise impair Landlord s rights against the Guarantor
hereunder.

2

The assignment by Landlord of the Lease and/or the rents, profits, avails, and/or proceeds
thereof made either with or without notice to the Guarantor shall in no manner whatsoever release
the Guarantor from any liability as Guarantor.

All of Landlord s rights and remedies under the Lease or under this Guaranty are intended to
be distinct, separate and cumulative and no such right or remedy therein or herein mentioned is
intended to be in exclusion of or a waiver of any of the others.

Notice of acceptance of this Guaranty and any obligations or liabilities contracted or
incurred by Tenant are all hereby waived by the Guarantor.

This Guaranty shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
Illinois.

All of the provisions of this Guaranty shall inure to the benefit of Landlord and its
grantees, successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of any future owner of the fee
title of which the Premises are a part, and all the provisions of this Guaranty shall be binding
upon the Guarantor and its legal representatives, successors, and assigns.

Initially capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein have the same meanings given
them in the Lease.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the undersigned has executed this Guaranty as of the date first written
above.

HA-LO INDUSTRIES, INC.,  an Illinois
corporation 

By:

/s/ Richard A. Magid 

Name: RICHARD A. MAGID 

Title: CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER 

3

SECOND AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE  

THIS SECOND AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE ( Amendment )  is made and entered into this
31 st  day of March, 2000, by and between  303 WACKER REALTY L.L.C. , a Delaware limited
liability company (hereinafter referred to as   Landlord  ), and  PROMOTIONAL MARKETING, L.L.C. (d/b/a
UPSHOT) , an Illinois limited liability company (hereinafter
referred to as   Tenant  ).

RECITALS : 

A. Landlord and Tenant are parties to that certain Office Lease dated June
30, 1998, demising premises (the   Premises  ) situated on the 23 rd  and
24 th  floors of the Building commonly known as 303 East Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois.
Said Office Lease has been amended by a certain Amendment to Lease dated August 27,
1998, and as so amended and as otherwise amended from time to time is hereinafter referred to as
the   Lease  ); and

B. Landlord and Tenant desire to further amend the Lease to among other things, include
additional space on the 25 th  and 26 th  floors of the Building as part of the
Premises, upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.

NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein and
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged,
Landlord and Tenant hereby amend the Lease in the following respects only:

1.   Defined Terms  . As used in this Amendment, the following terms shall have the
respective meanings indicated below:

(a)   Additional Premises   shall mean, collectively, Area No. 1, Area No. 2, Area No. 3, Area
No. 4 and Area No. 5, as shown on Exhibits A-l and A-2 attached hereto and made a part hereof,
which consist of a total of 55,340 square feet of Rentable Area measured in accordance with the
BOMA method of measurement as more fully described in Exhibit B to the Lease.

(b)   Area No. 1   shall mean the premises on the 25 th  floor of the Building, as
shown on Exhibit A-l attached hereto and made a part hereof, which consist of 8,503 square, feet of
Rentable Area measured in accordance with the BOMA method of measurement as more fully described in
Exhibit B to the Lease.

(c)   Area No. 2   shall mean the premises on the 25 th  floor of the Building, as
shown on Exhibit A-l attached hereto and made a part hereof, which consist of 7,839 square

feet of Rentable Area measured in accordance with the BOMA method of measurement as more fully
described in Exhibit B to the Lease.

(d)   Area No. 3   shall mean the premises on the 25 th  floor of the Building,
as shown on Exhibit A-1 attached hereto and made a part hereof, which consist of 16,342 square feet
of Rentable Area measured in accordance with the BOMA method of measurement as more fully described
in Exhibit B to the Lease.

(e)   Area No, 4   shall mean the premises on the 26 th  floor of the Building,
as shown on Exhibit A-2 attached hereto and made a part hereof, which consist of 7,422 square feet
of Rentable Area measured in accordance with the BOMA method of measurement as more fully described
in Exhibit B to the Lease, plus such portion, if any, of Area No. 5 as Tenant may elect to include
in the Premises for a term commencing on the Area No. 4 Commencement Date by giving notice to
Landlord prior to the Area No. 4 Commencement Date designating such portion of Area No. 5. Any such
portion of Area No. 5 designated by Tenant shall be contiguous to Area No. 4, and the remaining
portion of Area No. 5 shall be in a leasable configuration.

(f)   Area No. 5   shall mean the premises on the 26 th  floor of the Building, as
shown on Exhibit A-2 attached hereto and made a part hereof, which consist of 15,234 square feet of
Rentable Area measured in accordance with the BOMA method of measurement as more fully described in
Exhibit B to the Lease, less any portion thereof which Tenant may elect to include in Area No. 4
pursuant to Section l(e) above.

(g)   Area No. 1 Commencement Date   shall mean April 1, 2000, which date is subject to
adjustment pursuant to Section 7 below.

(h)   Area No. 2 Commencement Date   shall mean June 1, 2000, which date is subject to
adjustment pursuant to Section 7 below.

(i)   Area No. 3 Commencement Date   shall mean June 1, 2000, which date is subject to
adjustment pursuant to Section 7 below.

(j)   Area No. 4 Commencement Date   shall mean June 1, 2000, which date is subject to
adjustment pursuant to Section 7 below.

(k)   Area No. 5 Commencement Date   shall mean January 1, 2001, which date is subject to
adjustment pursuant to Section 7 below.

All other capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings
as set forth in the Lease. For purposes of the Lease, the tend
  Rent   shall specifically include
the rental payments due with respect to the Additional Premises as described in this Amendment.

2

Further,
as used herein, any reference to a   portion of the Additional
Premises   shall mean either
Area No. 1, Area No. 2, Area No. 3, Area No. 4, and/or Area No. 5, as applicable.

2.   Additional Premises Commencement Dates  . Effective as of the following respective
dates (herein collectively referred to as the   Additional
Premises Commencement Dates  ) and fora
lease term expiring concurrently with the end of the Term for the remainder of the Premises (as it
may be sooner terminated or extended as provided in the Lease), the Premises shall include the
following respective portions of the Additional Premises, and the Rentable Area of the Premises
shall thereupon be increased by the Rentable Area of each such designated portion of the Additional
Premises (as such respective Rentable Area designations are described in Section 1 of this
Amendment).

APPLICABLE PORTION  

DATE  
       
      OF ADDITIONAL PREMISES  

Area No. 1 Commencement Date

Area No. 1 

Area No. 2 Commencement Date

Area No.2 

Area No. 3 Commencement Date

Area No. 3 

Area No. 4 Commencement Date

Area No. 4 

Area No. 5 Commencement Date

Area No. 5 

3.   Lease Governs  . From and after each respective Additional Premises
Commencement Date described in Section 2 above, and through the end of the Term of the Lease, all
provisions of the Lease shall be in full force and effect with respect to, and shall govern
Tenant s possession of, the applicable portion of the Additional Premises.

4.   Additional Premises Base Rent  .

(a) From and after the respective Additional Premises Commencement Dates for Area No. 1,
Area No. 2, Area No. 4 and Area No. 5, Base Rent under the Lease with respect to each such portion
of the Additional Premises shall be payable at the same respective annual rates per square foot of
Rentable Area as applicable to the initial Premises under the Lease (i.e., as set forth in Section
l(b) of the Lease), changing as and when such rates otherwise change with respect to such initial
Premises.

(b) From and after the Area No. 3 Commencement Date, Base Rent under the Lease with
respect to Area No. 3 shall be payable in the amounts and at the respective rates per square foot
of Rentable Area of Area No. 3 for the respective periods hereinafter described:

3

(c) Base Rent attributable to the Additional Premises, as described above in this Section 4,
shall be payable at such times and at such place and in accordance with such provisions as
otherwise set forth in the Lease relative to the payment of Base Rent and Monthly Base Rent
thereunder.

5.    Additional Premises Additional Rent  .

(a) For any calendar year in which a respective Additional Premises Commencement Date falls,
Tenant s Proportionate Share of Expenses and Taxes (i.e., Additional Rent under the Lease) provided
for in Section 5 of the Lease shall be calculated separately for the applicable portion of the
Additional Premises for which such Additional Premises Commencement Date pertains, apart from the
remainder of the Premises, but not for any subsequent years of the Term of the Lease. In subsequent
years, Additional Rent shall be calculated for such applicable portion of the Additional Premises
together with the remainder of the Premises. Additional Rent for each portion of the

4

Additional Premises for the calendar year in which its corresponding Additional Premises
Commencement Date falls shall be prorated by multiplying (i) the Additional Rent attributable to
the applicable portion of the Additional Premises for such calendar year, as a whole, by (ii) a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days remaining in such calendar year from and
after the applicable Additional Premises Commencement Date and the denominator of which is 365.

(b) For purposes of calculating Additional Rent payable on account of any applicable
portion of the Additional Premises for the calendar year in which its corresponding Additional
Premises Commencement Date falls, as  provided in Section 5(a)
above,  Tenant s Proportionate
Share  shall be determined in accordance with the definition thereof set forth in Exhibit B of the
Lease, except that the numerator of the ratio described therein shall be die Rentable Area of the
applicable portion of the Additional Premises (as set forth in Section 1 hereinabove). For purposes
of calculating Additional Rent payable on account of such portion of the Additional Premises,
together with the remainder of the Premises, for all subsequent calendar years (or portions
thereof) within the Term of the Lease, as provided in Section 5(a) above,  Tenant s Proportionate
Share  shall be determined in accordance with the definition thereof set forth in Exhibit B of the
Lease, except that the numerator of the ratio described therein shall be the Rentable Area of the
applicable portion of the Additional Premises together with the Rentable Area of the then balance
of the Premises.

(c) All Additional Rent described in this Section 5 shall be payable at such times, in
such manner, and in accordance with such procedures (i.e, including payment of  Additional Rent
Estimate  and final reconciliations) as set forth in Section 5 of the Lease relative to payment of
Additional Rent thereunder.

6.   Condition: Tenant Improvements  . Subject to Landlord s obligations with respect to
the Landlord s Additional Premises Work under the Workletter attached hereto as Exhibit B and made
a part hereof (the   Additional Premises Workletter  ), Tenant hereby accepts each portion of the
Additional Premises in their   as is   condition as of the date of execution and delivery of this
Amendment by both Tenant and Landlord and acknowledges that Landlord shall not be required to make
any improvements to any portion of the Additional Premises for Tenant s use and occupancy. Without
limitation of the foregoing, it is acknowledged that Tenant, at its sole cost and expense (subject
to application of the allowances provided for in the Additional Premises Workletter), (a) shall
perform any work at the Additional Premises as may be necessary or desired by Tenant to improve the
Additional Premises for occupancy and (b) may, at Tenant s option, perform the work necessary in
order to modify the base building washrooms on the 25 th  floor of the Building to match
the 23 rd  and/or 24 th  floor base building washrooms, in each case subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of the Lease and the Additional Premises Workletter. All work
as referenced in this Section 6 performed by Tenant within any respective portion of the Additional
Premises prior to or within one hundred twenty (120) days following its/corresponding Additional
Premises Commencement Date and in the 25 th  floor washrooms prior to or within one
hundred twenty (120) days following the last Additional Premises Commencement Date to occur for
Additional Premises on the 25 th  floor is referred to herein and in the Additional
Premises Workletter as   Tenant s 

5

Additional
Premises Work  . Tenant s Additional Premises Work shall be  Tenant Alterations  for
purposes of the Lease.

7.   Possession  .

(a) Landlord shall deliver possession of each respective portion of the Additional Premises to
Tenant not later than the following respective dates (herein, collectively, the   Additional
Premises Turnover Dates  ):

Portion of Additional Premises  
       
      Projected Turnover Date  

Area No. 1

The date of full execution and delivery of
this Amendment 

Area No. 2

The date of full execution and delivery of
this Amendment 

Area No. 3

The date of full execution and delivery of
this Amendment 

Area No. 4

The date of full execution and delivery of
this Amendment as to the premises
designated  Area No. 4  on Exhibit A-2 and,
as to any additional premises designated by
Tenant as Area No. 4 premises pursuant to
Section l(e) above, not later than thirty
(30) days after Tenant gives notice to
Landlord of such designation 

Area No. 5

October 1, 2000, or such earlier date as
Tenant may designate by not less than
thirty (30) days  prior written notice, to
Landlord 

(b) If Landlord should be unable for any reason to deliver possession of any given
portion of the Additional Premises on its corresponding Additional Premises Turnover Date, Landlord
shall not be subject to any liability for failure to deliver possession. Such failure to deliver
possession shall not affect either the validity of the Lease (as amended hereby) or the obligations
of either Landlord or Tenant under the Lease (as amended hereby) or be construed to extend the
expiration of the Term of the Lease either as to the respective portion of the Additional Premises
or the balance of the Premises. However, under such circumstances the applicable Additional
Premises Commencement Date set forth in Section 1 above for such portion of the Additional Premises
shall be extended by one day for each day of delay beyond the corresponding Additional Premises
Turnover Date in delivery of possession of such portion of the Additional Premises to Tenant.

(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, with respect to each
respective portion of the Additional Premises, if Tenant occupies such portion of the Additional
Premises for the conduct of business operations therefrom prior to the Additional Premises
Commencement Date-determined pursuant to Section 1 and the preceding provisions of this

6

Section 7, the Additional Premises Commencement Date for such portion of the Additional Premises
shall be the date on which Tenant commences business operations therefrom.

8.   Lobby Signage  . Tenant shall have the right to install, at Tenant s sole cost
and expense and prior to the date which is one year after the last Additional Premises Commencement
Date to occur, two additional Tenant identification signs on the glass panel in the high-rise
elevator bank lobby on the ground floor of the Building. Such signs shall be similar to (and not
larger than) the existing  Upshot  sign already installed in that location pursuant to Section
39(b) of the Lease and shall be deemed to be lobby identification under Section 39(b) and subject
to the terms and conditions of that Section to the extent not inconsistent with this Section 8. One
of such additional signs shall display the name  Ha-Lo  and the other shall display the name
 Starbelly  or, in each case, Tenant may substitute the name of another Tenant Affiliate subject to
Landlord s prior written approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, and subject to any
rights at the time of other tenants of the Building regarding competitors  signage.

9.   Staircase and Fire Stairwell  . (a) At such time as, and for so long as, the
Premises include the portions of the
25 th  and 26 th  floors of the Building which are directly above
the staircase which connects the 23 rd  and 24th floors of the Building, Tenant shall
have the right to extend the internal staircase in the Premises from the 24 th  floor to
the 25 th  and 26 th  floors of the Building. Such work may be performed, with
Landlord s approval of structural and other matters pursuant to the Workletter or to Section. 14 of
the Lease and at Tenant s sole cost and expense, and also subject to applicable building and fire
codes and regulations, either as part of the Tenant s Additional Premises Work, or pursuant to and
on the terms and conditions contained in Section 14 and any other applicable provisions of the
Lease.

(b) Tenant shall have the right to use the fire stairwells connecting portions of the Premises
on the 23 rd  24 th  , 25 th  and 26 th  floors of the
Building (at such time as, and for so long as, connecting portions of the Premises are located on
such floors) for travel between floors of the Premises, so long as such use is permitted by
applicable building and fire codes and regulations. With Landlord s approval pursuant to Section 14
of the Lease and at Tenant s sole cost and expense, and also subject to applicable building and
fire codes and regulations, Tenant shall have the right to improve the portions of the stairwell
serving the Premises and install a card key access system on stairwell doors in order to control
entry from the stairwell to the Premises.

10.   Right of First Offer  . Subject to the provisions hereinafter set forth,
Landlord hereby grants to Tenant the right to lease, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth, each portion of the space on the
12 th ,
20 th  and
28 th  floors of the Building (the   First
Offer Space  ) which Landlord proposes to lease for any term commencing during the First Offer
Period (as hereinafter defined).

(a) Subject to Section 10(h) below, if Landlord is in serious discussions with a party other
than Tenant concerning a lease of any portion of the First Offer Space for a term commencing during
the First Offer Period (which shall include, in order to constitute serious discussions, delivery
by Landlord to such party of an initial proposal for the leasing of such

7

portion of the First Offer Space), and in any event prior to leasing any portion of the First Offer
Space for a term commencing during the First Offer Period, Landlord shall give Tenant written
notice of the location and Rentable Area of such portion of the First Offer Space, the date of
commencement of the term of the demise, as determined by Landlord, with respect to such portion of
the First Offer Space (the   First Offer Space Commencement
Date  ) and the rental rate for such
portion of the First Offer Space (determined as hereinafter provided). The First Offer Space
Commencement Date shall not be less than thirty (30) days after the date such notice is given by
Landlord unless such portion of the First Offer Space has or will become available for leasing by
reason of early termination of a lease, in which case the First Offer Space Commencement Date shall
not be less than ten (10) days after the date such notice is given by Landlord, and shall not be
earlier than the date on which Tenant exercises its right to lease such portion of the First Offer
Space.

(b) Tenant s right to lease the First Offer Space described in such a notice from
Landlord shall be exercisable by written notice from Tenant to Landlord of Tenant s election to
exercise said right (a   first Offer Exercise Notice  ) given not later than seven (7) business days
after Landlord s notice is given, time being of the essence. If such right is not so exercised,
Tenant s right of first offer shall thereupon terminate as to such portion of the First Offer
Space, and Landlord may thereafter lease and re-lease such portion of the First Offer Space without
notice to Tenant and free of any right in Tenant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Landlord shall
not have leased such First Offer Space within the period ending six (6) months following the date
of Landlord s notice to Tenant regarding such First Offer Space plus, if Landlord is negotiating
with a particular potential tenant at the time such period expires, such additional period during
which Landlord continues to negotiate with such potential tenant, Landlord shall not enter into a
lease of any such portion of the First Offer Space without again giving the notice referred to
above. Tenant may not elect to lease less than the entire area of the First Offer Space described
in a Landlord s notice, and if a third-party lease would include all or a portion of the First
Offer Space together with other space in the Building which is not First Offer Space, Tenant must
exercise its right for such First Offer Space and such other space.

(c) Tenant may only exercise its right to lease a portion of the First Offer Space, and
an exercise thereof shall only be effective, if at the time of Tenant s exercise of said right and
oh the pertinent First Offer Space Commencement Date the Lease is in full force and effect and
Tenant is not in Default under the Lease, and (inasmuch as this right of first offer is intended
only for the benefit of the original Tenant named in the Lease and any Tenant Successors and Tenant
Affiliates) the entire Premises are occupied by the original Tenant named in the Lease or a Tenant
Successor or Tenant Affiliate, and said Tenant has not assigned the Lease (other than to a Tenant
Successor or Tenant Affiliate), nor sublet any portion of the Premises (other than to a Tenant
Successor or Tenant Affiliate), and Landlord has not terminated the Lease as to any part of the
Premises pursuant to Section 15 of the Lease. Without limitation of the foregoing, no sublessee,
and no assignee other than a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate, shall be entitled to exercise
any right hereunder, and no

8

exercise of any right hereunder by the original Tenant named in the Lease or a Tenant Successor or
Tenant Affiliate shall be effective in the event said Tenant or Tenant Successor or Tenant
Affiliate assigns the Lease (other than to a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate) or subleases any
portion of the Premises (other than to a Tenant Successor or Tenant Affiliate), or if Landlord
terminates the Lease as to any part of the Premises pursuant to Section 15 of the Lease, prior to
the pertinent First Offer Space Commencement Date.

(d) If Tenant has validly exercised its right to lease a portion of the First Offer Space,
then effective as of the First Offer Space Commencement Date such portion of the First Offer Space
shall be included in the Premises, subject to all of the terms, conditions and provisions of the
Lease, except that:

(i) 
       
     Base Rent per square foot of Rentable Area for such portion of the Erst Offer
Space shall be equal to the Market Rental Rate (as defined in Section 38 of the Lease)
for such First Offer Space; 

(ii) 
       
     the Rentable Area of the Premises shall be increased by the Rentable Area of
such portion of the First Offer Space; 

(iii) 
       
     the term of the demise covering such portion of the First Offer Space shall
commence on the First Offer Space Commencement Date and shall expire simultaneously
with the expiration of the Term of the Lease, including any extension or renewal
thereof; and 

(iv) 
       
     the First Offer Space shall be rented in its  as is  condition as of the
First Offer Space Commencement Date (inasmuch as tenant improvement work, allowances,
and time for construction of tenant improvements, if any, will be reflected in the
Market Rental Rate pursuant to Section 38 of the Lease). 

(e) If Tenant has validly exercised its right to lease a portion of the First Offer Space,
within thirty (30) days after request by either party hereto, Landlord and Tenant shall enter into
a written amendment to the Lease confirming the terms, conditions and provisions applicable to such
portion of the First Offer Space as determined in accordance herewith.

(f) If Tenant has validly exercised its right to lease a portion of the First Offer Space,
Landlord shall use reasonable efforts to deliver possession of such First Offer Space to Tenant on
the pertinent First Offer Space Commencement Date, but in the event Landlord should be unable for
any reason to do so, Landlord shall not be subject to any liability for failure to deliver
possession. Such failure to deliver possession shall not affect either the validity of the Lease or
the obligations of either Landlord or Tenant under the Lease or be construed to extend the
expiration of the Term of the Lease either as to such portion of the Erst Offer Space or the
balance of the Premises; provided, however, that under such

9

circumstances, rent shall not commence as to such portion of the First Offer Space until Landlord
is able to deliver possession, and Base Rent for such portion of the First Offer Space shall be
adjusted to reflect the reduction in the length of the term of the lease of such portion of the
First Offer Space if and to the extent that the length of such term had an effect on the
computation of the Market Rental Rate.

(g) In the event any portion of the First Offer Space is leased to Tenant other than pursuant
to the right of first offer described herein, such portion of the First Offer Space shall thereupon
be deleted from the First Offer Space.

(h) Tenant s rights to lease the First Offer Space are subject and subordinate to the rights
with respect to such space heretofore granted to those tenants (including their respective
successors and assigns) described on Schedule 1 hereto, as set forth in such existing tenants 
respective leases at the Building in effect as of the date of execution and delivery of this
Amendment by both Tenant and Landlord and more fully described (whether characterized on Schedule 1
hereto as expansion rights, rights of first offer, or other rights) in such respective leases.
Tenant s rights to lease the First Offer Space are also subject and subordinate to Landlord s right
to extend or renew the lease of any tenant occupying any portion of the First Offer Space, even if
not pursuant to an option contained in its lease.

(i) As used herein, the term   First Offer Period   shall mean the period commencing on the date
of execution and delivery of this Amendment by both Tenant and Landlord and continuing for the
remainder of the Term of the Lease and all extensions and renewals thereof, provided, however, that
the First Offer Period shall not include the last Lease Year of the Initial Term or the last two
(2) Lease Years of any extension or renewal term unless, as to the Initial Term, Tenant has
exercised the option granted to Tenant in the Lease to extend the Term thereof or renew the Lease
for the additional period following such Initial Term, or Landlord and Tenant have entered into an
amendment to the Lease extending the Term for an additional period.

(j) If me First Offer Space Commencement Date for any portion of the First Offer Space will be
during the second to the last Lease Year of the Initial Term
( i.e. , during the period beginning on
April 1, 2007 and ending on March 31, 2008), then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained herein, Tenant may only exercise its right to lease such portion of the First Offer
Space, and an exercise thereof shall only be effective, if (i) Tenant simultaneously exercises its
option under Section 37 of the Lease to extend the Term of the Lease and (ii) Tenant is then
entitled, pursuant to the terms of Section 37(b) of the Lease, to exercise such option.

11.   Security Deposit  . On or before the date of execution and delivery of this
Amendment by Tenant, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord, at Tenant s option, either (a) cash  ( Cash
Security Deposit )  in the amount of $845,000.00, or (b) an unconditional and irrevocable letter of
credit  ( Letter of Credit )  in the amount of $845,000.00  ( Security Deposit ) , as security for the
full and

10

faithful performance of every provision of the Lease (as amended hereby) to be performed by Tenant.
Tenant s failure to deliver the Security Deposit to Landlord when required hereunder shall be a
default and material breach of the Lease. The first such Letter of Credit (i.e., if that is the
applicable form of the Security Deposit) shall expire no earlier than twelve (12) months after
issuance and all subsequent replacement Letters of Credit shall expire no earlier than twelve (12)
months from the expiry date of the then outstanding and expiring Letter of Credit. Each such Letter
of Credit shall be in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit C and otherwise in form and
substance satisfactory to Landlord. Each such Letter of Credit shall be issued by a bank reasonably
satisfactory to Landlord. Without limitation of the foregoing, each issuer of a Letter of Credit
shall have an office in Chicago, Illinois at which such Letter of Credit may be presented. Subject
to the remaining provisions of this Section concerning reductions in the amount of the Security
Deposit and return of the Security Deposit, Tenant shall ensure that at all times during the Term
of the Lease and for sixty (60) days after expiration of the Term, an unexpired Letter of Credit in
the face amount of the Security Deposit or cash in the amount of the Security Deposit shall be in
the possession of Landlord. Subject to such provisions, during the Term Tenant shall deliver a
replacement Letter of Credit to Landlord no later man thirty (30) days prior to the expiry date of
then outstanding and expiring Letter of Credit. In addition, unless the total assets of the issuer
of any outstanding Letter of Credit are $ 1 billion or more (unless Landlord has previously
approved a lesser figure) as established to the reasonable satisfaction of Landlord, Landlord may
require that Tenant deliver a replacement Letter of Credit from another issuer satisfactory to
Landlord within thirty (30) days after notice from Landlord to Tenant requesting such replacement
Letter of Credit. Failure by Tenant to deliver any replacement Letter of Credit as required by the
foregoing provisions shall entitle Landlord to draw under the outstanding Letter of Credit and to
retain the entire proceeds thereof for application as the Security Deposit under the Lease, but
Landlord shall refund such proceeds to Tenant simultaneously with later delivery by Tenant of a
Letter of Credit conforming with this Section. Each Letter of Credit shall be for the benefit of
Landlord and its successors and assigns, shall be expressly assignable, and shall entitle Landlord
or its successors or assigns to draw from time to time under the Letter of Credit in portions or in
whole upon presentation of a sight draft accompanied by a statement that Landlord is entitled to
draw thereunder pursuant to the terms of the Lease.

If a Default by Tenant occurs under the Lease, including but not limited to a Default relating
to the payment of Rent, Landlord may draw under the Letter of Credit and use or apply the proceeds
drawn or any cash or other Security Deposit for the payment of Rent or any other past due amount or
for any amount which Landlord may spend or become obligated to spend by reason of Tenant s Default
or to compensate Landlord for any other loss which Landlord may suffer by reason of Tenant s
Default. If any portion of the proceeds are to be used or applied, Tenant shall, within five (5)
days after written demand therefor, restore the Security Deposit (by either a cash deposit or
delivery of a replacement Letter of Credit) to the amount then required by this Section and
Tenant s failure to do so shall be a default and material breach of the Lease. Except to the extent
required by law, Tenant shall not be entitled to interest for any period during which Landlord is
holding cash as a Security Deposit nor shall Landlord be required to keep such cash Security
Deposit separate from its or their general funds. Any cash Security Deposit which Landlord is
holding at the expiration of the lease term, or any balance thereof, and any outstanding Letter of
Credit shall be returned to

11

Tenant (or at Landlord s option to the last permitted assignee of Tenant s interest hereunder, if
any) within thirty (30) days after the expiration of the lease Term and Tenant s vacation of the
Premises, provided Tenant is not then in default under the Lease, and to the extent not returned to
Tenant because Tenant is in default under the Lease, shall be returned when any such default is
cured, to the extent not applied to cure such default or applied to other obligations of Tenant
under the Lease. Landlord may deliver the Letter of Credit or any cash Security Deposit funds to
the purchaser of Landlord s interest in the Project, in the event that such interest is sold,
transferred or conveyed, and thereupon Landlord shall be discharged from any further liability with
respect to the Security Deposit provided that the transferee assumes Landlord s obligations with
respect thereto.

In the event that Tenant has not defaulted with respect to any obligation under the Lease
(including, without limitation, any default in the payment of Rent when due) at any time on or
prior to the respective  Security Deposit Reduction Date,  hereinafter described, then,
notwithstanding anything contained hereinabove to the contrary, (i) Landlord shall return to
Tenant, upon Tenant s request therefor, that portion of any Cash Security Deposit then being held
by Landlord hereunder corresponding to the amount of the  Permitted Security Deposit Reduction 
permitted as of such Security Deposit Reduction Date (as hereinafter set forth), or (ii) Tenant
shall have the right to deliver a replacement letter of credit as a substitute for any Letter of
Credit then being held by Landlord hereunder, or an amendment to the Letter of Credit then being
held by Landlord hereunder, which replacement letter of credit or amended Letter of Credit shall be
in the amount of the  Remaining Balance of Security Deposit  corresponding to such Security Deposit
Reduction Date (as hereinafter set forth):

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Tenant is not entitled to a reduction in the Security
Deposit pursuant to the preceding paragraph solely because Tenant is in default under the Lease, as
described therein, Tenant may again take the benefit of such reduction if and when such default and
all other subsequent defaults have been cured within applicable cure periods provided under the
Lease.

If the net income of Tenant and/or any guarantor of the Lease (collectively the   Tenant
Obligor  ), for the Tenant Obligor s most recent three (3) fiscal years, is equal to or greater than

12

$25,000,000 per annum (as evidenced by audited financial statements reasonably satisfactory to
Landlord, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and otherwise on a
basis consistent with the financial statements of Tenant delivered to Landlord prior to execution
of the Lease) and Tenant is not in default under the Lease, then Landlord shall return any cash
Security Deposit which Landlord is then holding and any outstanding Letter of Credit to Tenant or,
at Landlord s option, to any Tenant Obligor within thirty (30) days after the date of submittal of
such financial statements and Tenant s demand therefor, and Tenant shall have no further
requirement for delivery of any Security Deposit hereunder. If Tenant is not entitled to the return
of any Cash Security Deposit or Letter of Credit pursuant to this paragraph solely because Tenant
is in default under the Lease, the same shall be returned if and when such default and any other
subsequent defaults are cured within applicable cure periods under the Lease.

12.    Real Estate Brokers.   Tenant represents and warrants that Tenant has not dealt with
any broker in connection with this Amendment other than Binswanger Midwest of Illinois (whose
commissions shall be payable by Landlord pursuant to separate written agreement between
Landlord
and said broker). Tenant agrees to indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from all loss,
damages,
liabilities, claims, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys  fees) arising from
any claims
or demands of any other broker or brokers or finders with whom Tenant dealt for any commission
alleged to be due such broker, brokers or finders.

13.    Present Status.   Tenant certifies to Landlord that as of the execution and delivery of
this Amendment by both Tenant and Landlord, and to Tenant s actual knowledge, Landlord is not
in
default under the Lease by reason of failure to perform any obligations thereunder.

14.    Inapplicable Provisions.   The following provisions of the Lease are hereby deleted,
and shall hereafter be deemed null and void in their entirety:

(a) Section 35 of the Lease (i.e., entitled  Right of First Offer 

(b) Section 36 of the Lease (i.e., entitled  Expansion Option 

(c) Paragraph 1 of the Workletter to the Lease (i.e., entitled  Landlord s Work )
(it being acknowledged and confirmed by Tenant that such Landlord s Work has heretofore
been completed by Landlord in accordance with the requirements of said Workletter); and

(d) Paragraphs 9(a) and 9(b) of the Workletter to the Lease (i.e., pertaining to any
further obligations of Landlord to fund the Allowances described therein).

15.    Commencement Date.   The parties confirrn and agree that (a) the Commencement
Date of the Lease was March 4,1999, (b) the Expiration Date of the Initial Term will be March
31,
2009 and (c) each Lease Year under the Lease shall end on March 31.

13

16.    Lease Supplement.   At either party s request following any given Additional
Premises
Commencement Date, Landlord and Tenant shall enter into a supplement to the Lease, confirming
the terms and provisions applicable to the applicable portion of the Additional Premises as
determined
in accordance herewith. Any failure by the parties to fully execute and deliver any supplement
shall
not, however, affect their rights and obligations under the Lease as amended by this Amendment
with
respect to such portion of the Additional Premises.

17.     Entire Agreement.   The entire agreement of the parties is set forth in this Amendment
and in the Lease as amended hereby. No prior agreement or understanding with respect to the
Lease
and this Amendment shall be valid or of any force or effect.

18.    Lease in Full Force and Effect.   Except as amended hereby, all the terms and
provisions of the Lease shall remain in full force and effect, and are hereby ratified and
confirmed, and
the terms of Section 43 shall apply to this Amendment and to the Lease, as amended hereby.

Signature Page to Follow  

14

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties have entered into this Amendment as of the
day and year first above written.

LANDLORD:  

TENANT:  

303 WACKER REALTY L.L.C.  

PROMOTIONAL MARKETING,  

L.L.C.,  an Illinois limited liability 

By: 
       
      Hines Three Illinois Center Associates Limited  

company d/b/a  UPSHOT  

Partnership,  its managing member 

By: 
       
      Hines Three Illinois Center L.L.C.,  a 

By: 
       
     /s/ John Kelley 

general partner 

Name: 
       
     John Kelley 

Title:

President (CEO) 

By: 
       
      Hines Interests Limited Partnership,  a 

member 

By: 
       
      Hines Holdings, Inc.,  its general 

partner 

By:

/s/ C. Kevin Shannahan

Name: C. Kevin Shannahan 

Title: Executive Vice President 

15

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF GUARANTOR  

The undersigned, being the  Guarantor  under that certain Guaranty ( Guaranty ) dated August
26,1998 pertaining to the above-described Lease, hereby acknowledges and consents to the terms of
the foregoing Amendment, and confirms that the Guaranty remains in full force and effect and shall
continue to apply, in all respects, relative to the Lease, as amended by the foregoing Amendment,
and as further amended from time to time.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the undersigned has executed this Acknowledgment as of the day and year
first set forth above in this Amendment

GUARANTOR:   

HA-LO INDUSTRIES,INC.,  an Illinois corporation 

By:

/s/ John Kelley 

Name:

John Kelly 

Title:

President / CEO 

ASSIGNMENT ,  ASSUMPTION, CONSENT AND    
  THIRD AMENDMENT TO LEASE  

THIS ASSIGNMENT, ASSUMPTION, CONSENT AND THIRD AMENDMENT TO LEASE ( Amendment )  is made
and entered into as of the 22nd day of may, 2002 by and among 303  WACKER REALTY L.L.C.,  a
Delaware limited
liability company (hereinafter referred to as   Landlord ), PROMOTIONAL MARKETING, L.L.C.  (d/b/a
Upshot) (hereinafter referred to as   Original Tenant ), and EQUITY MARKETING, INC.,  a Delaware
corporation (hereinafter referred to as   Tenant ). 

WITNESSETH:  

WHEREAS,  Landlord and Original Tenant have entered into that certain Lease dated June
30, 1998 (the   Original Lease  ), as amended by Amendment to Lease dated August 27, 1998 (the
  First Amendment )  and by Second Amendment to Office Lease dated March 31, 2000 (the   Second
Amendment ),  and as supplemented by side-letter agreement dated effective as of March 1, 2002 (the
  Side-Letter )  (said Original Lease, as so amended by the First Amendment and Second Amendment and
as so supplemented by the Side-Letter, as amended hereby and as further amended from time to time,
the    Lease  ), which Lease covers space located on the 23 rd  through 26 th 
floors (inclusive) of the Building known as 303 E. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois;

WHEREAS,  Landlord, Original Tenant and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company  ( Existing
Mortgagee )  have heretofore entered into a certain Subordination, Non-Disturbance and Attomment
Agreement (herein, the   Non-Disturbance Agreement )  relative to the Lease;

WHEREAS,  Original Tenant desires to assign to Tenant all of Original Tenant s right, title
and interest in, to and under the Lease and the Non-Disturbance Agreement and with respect to the
Premises thereunder effective from and after the  Effective Date  (as defined below), and Tenant
desires to accept such assignment and assume all obligations and liabilities of Original Tenant
under said Lease and Non-Disturbance Agreement and with respect to said Premises effective from
and after the  Effective Date  (as defined below), all conditioned upon Landlord s and Existing
Mortgagee s consent to such assignment and to the agreement of Landlord and Tenant to amend the
Lease as hereinafter set forth;

WHEREAS,  Original Tenant and Tenant have requested Landlord to consent to the aforedescribed
assignment, and Landlord has agreed to consent to such assignment, subject to the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth; and

WHEREAS,  Landlord and Tenant desire to amend the Lease, effective from and after the
 Effective Date , to exclude certain space from the Premises being demised under the Lease and
for other matters as hereinafter set forth;

NOW, THEREFORE,  in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual covenants and agreements
contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged by the parties hereto, Landlord, Original Tenant and Tenant hereby
agree as follows:

1.    Defined Terms.   All capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as in the Lease.

2.    Assignment.   Subject to Paragraph 19 below, effective as of the  Closing
Date 
(as defined in Paragraph 19 below) (herein, the   Effective Date  ), Original Tenant hereby
assigns to Tenant all of Original Tenant s right, title and interest in, to and under the
Lease and
the Non-Disturbance Agreement, and with respect to the leased premises thereunder. Original
Tenant and/or Tenant shall notify Landlord, in writing, of the occurrence of such Closing Date
within one (1) business day after the occurrence thereof.

3.    Acceptance and Assumption.   Subject to Paragraph 19 below, effective from
and after the Effective Date, Tenant hereby accepts such assignment and assumes the
obligations
and liabilities of the  Tenant  (as such term is used in the Lease) under the Lease and the
Non-
Disturbance Agreement, all to the extent such obligations and liabilities arise or accrue on
or
following the Effective Date, and Tenant agrees to make all payments and to keep and perform
all conditions and covenants to be kept and performed by the  Tenant  thereunder from and
after
the Effective Date, as fully and completely as if Tenant had executed the Lease and the Non-
Disturbance Agreement in its own name. Tenant agrees that such assumption and agreement is
made for the benefit of Original Tenant, Landlord and Existing Mortgagee.

4.    Certification by Original Tenant.   Original Tenant represents and warrants to
Landlord and to Tenant that the following are true as of the date hereof, and will be true as
of the
Effective Date (provided, however, that the following representations or warranties, whether
or
not true, shall not affect, in any manner, Tenant s liability to Landlord under the Lease or
to
Existing Mortgagee under the Non-Disturbance Agreement for all obligations of  Tenant  arising
or accruing on or following the Effective Date):

(a) Original Tenant owns and holds the entire interest of  Tenant  under the
Lease;

(b) There exist no subleases affecting the Premises under the Lease or any
part thereof;

(c) Original Tenant has not assigned or encumbered the  Tenant s  interest
under the Lease or any part thereof;

(d) No contracts for the furnishing of any labor or materials with respect to
improvements or alterations in or about the Premises have been let by Original Tenant
or
are outstanding that have not been fully performed and satisfied by Original Tenant;

(e) To the best of Original Tenant s knowledge after due inquiry, Landlord is
not in default under the Lease by reason of failure to perform any obligation
thereunder
and there is no circumstance, event, condition or state of facts which, by the passage
of
time or the giving of notice or both, could constitute or result in such a default; and

(f) Original Tenant is not in default under the Lease by reason of failure to
perform any obligation thereunder and, to Original Tenant s knowledge, there is no
circumstance, event, condition or state of facts which, by the passage of time or the
giving of notice or both, could constitute or result in such a default.

2

5.   Certification
by Landlord  . Landlord hereby certifies to Tenant that, as of
the
date hereof, (i) Original Tenant is not in default of its obligation to pay Base Rent or
Additional
Rent as and when due under the Lease, (ii) Landlord has not delivered to Original Tenant any
written notice (which has not been heretofore withdrawn by Landlord) stating that Tenant is in
default under the Lease, and (iii) there is no Ground Lessor or Mortgagee with rights in the
Building other than Existing Mortgagee.

6.   Original
Tenant s Liability  . Original Tenant shall remain fully liable to
Landlord under the Lease in accordance with its terms, all to the extent (and only to the
extent)
of all obligations or liabilities arising or accruing prior to the Effective Date hereof
(including,
without limitation, those additional Rent reconciliation obligations described in Paragraph 11
below). Original Tenant shall be released from all obligations and liabilities of the
 Tenant 
under the Lease first arising or accruing from and after the Effective Date, all of which
being
expressly assumed by Tenant hereunder. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth
herein, Landlord hereby acknowledges and agrees that Tenant shall have no responsibility for
any obligations or liabilities arising or accruing under the Lease prior to the Effective
Date, and
Landlord shall not exercise any rights or remedies under the Lease against Tenant as a result
of
any acts or omissions of Original Tenant occurring prior to the Effective Date.

7.   Consent of Landlord  . Landlord hereby consents to the foregoing assignment to
Tenant, subject to the terms and conditions contained herein. Landlord s consent shall not be
deemed to otherwise modify any of the terms and provisions set forth in the Lease, nor does
Landlord hereby consent to any further assignment of the Lease or subletting of all or any
portion of Premises.

8.   Partial Termination of Lease  . The term of the Lease and all other Lease terms
and conditions shall terminate on the Effective Date only as to that portion of the Premises
located on the 25 th  and 26 th  floors of the Building, as shown on
Exhibits A-l and A-2 of the
Second Amendment and stipulated to contain 55,340 square feet of Rentable Area (the
  Excluded Premises  ), as though the Lease had expired by lapse of time on the Effective Date
with respect to the Excluded Premises. Following the Effective Date, the remaining balance of
the Premises (the   Remainder Leased Premises  ), consisting of the entirety of floors 23 and 24
at the Building and stipulated to contain 60,494 square feet of Rentable Area (i.e., 30,172
square
feet on the 23 rd  floor and 30,322 square feet on the 24 th  floor), shall
be deemed to be the
 Premises  under the Lease, which Remainder Leased Premises is shown on Exhibit A-3 to the
Original Lease.

9.   Surrender and Notice  . Original Tenant shall vacate and deliver possession of
the Excluded Premises to Landlord on or before 11:59 p.m. on the Effective Date, in its
 as-is 
condition existing as of the date of this Amendment, subject, however, to Tenant s continuing
obligation to remove all furnishings and other personal property therefrom (other than the
 Excluded Premises Construction Materials , as described below) on or before the Effective
Date, in accordance with Section 10(c) of the Original Lease. Any retention of possession by
Original Tenant or by Tenant of all or part of the Excluded Premises after the Exclusion Date
shall be deemed a holding over under Section 11 of the Lease without consent of Landlord, and
shall be subject to the terms and conditions of Section 11 with respect to such holdover.
Without
limitation of the foregoing, Landlord and Original Tenant hereby agree that, from and after
the
date hereof, Original Tenant shall not remove from the Excluded Premises any of the
construction materials currently being stored at the Excluded Premises (i.e., consisting of

3

drywall, ductwork and the like) (herein, the   Excluded Premises Construction Materials ). 
Effective as of the Effective Date, the Excluded Premises Construction Materials shall
become the property of the Landlord, without any additional compensation, allowance or credit
to Original Tenant therefor, other than the benefits derived by Original Tenant under this
Amendment. Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged, Original Tenant hereby quitclaims, bargains, sells and delivers
to Landlord its entire right, title and interest in and to the Excluded Premises Construction
Materials, which conveyance shall become effective as of the Effective Date. Without
limitation of the foregoing, Original Tenant hereby confirms that, to its knowledge, Original
Tenant and/or Landlord is the owner of the aforedescribed Excluded Premises Construction
Materials, and no other party has any liens, claims for lien or other rights with respect
thereto. Tenant shall have no liability with respect to the surrender of the Excluded Premises
or the disposition of the Excluded Premises Construction Materials, it being hereby agreed
that Tenant shall not succeed to any right, title or interest of Original Tenant therein.

10.    Decrease in Base Rent.   Effective as of the Effective Date, Base Rent provided
to be paid pursuant to Section l(b) and Section 4 of the Lease with respect to the Remainder
Leased Premises shall be reduced to the following amounts for the following respective periods
(and Section l(b) is amended accordingly):

11.   Additional Rent.   Additional Rent for the calendar year which includes
the Effective Date shall be calculated separately for the Excluded Premises and the Remainder
Leased Premises as follows:

(a) Additional Rent attributable to the Excluded Premises shall be prorated
pursuant to Section 5(e) of the Original Lease for the calendar year which includes
the Effective Date as though the Lease will terminate on the Effective Date, and  the
number of days of the Term falling within the Calculation Year , as used in said
Section 5(e), shall be deemed to be the number of days in the period commencing on
January 1st of the

4

calendar year which includes the Effective Date and ending on the Effective Date.  Tenant s
Proportionate Share , as determined under Exhibit B to the Original Lease, shall, for
purposes of determining Additional Rent attributable to the Excluded Premises for said
calendar year, be deemed to be 55,340 square feet (i.e., being the rentable square footage
of the Excluded Premises). Original Tenant shall be responsible for payment of Additional
Rent attributable to the Excluded Premises for the calendar year which includes the
Effective Date (including, without limitation, all rights and/or obligations with respect to
reconciliations of actual Additional Rent as compared to Additional Rent Estimate relative
to the Excluded Premises for such year, as required under Section 5(c) of the Lease), and
Tenant shall have no rights or responsibility therefor.

(b) Additional Rent attributable to the Remainder Leased Premises for the calendar
year which includes the Effective Date and for the remainder of the Lease term thereafter
shall be computed pursuant to Section 5 of the Lease, except that the  Tenant s
Proportionate Share  as determined under Exhibit B of the Lease, for purposes of
determining Additional Rent for the Remainder Leased Premises, shall be deemed to be 60,494
square feet (i.e., being the rentable square footage of the Remainder Leased Premises).
Without limitation of the foregoing, the parties hereby agree that Original Tenant shall
have all rights and shall be responsible for all obligations with respect to
reconciliations of actual Additional Rent as compared to Additional Rent Estimate (i.e., as
required under Section 5(c) of the Lease) attributable to the Remainder Leased Premises for
the calendar year which includes the Effective Date, but only with respect to the period
from and after January 1 st  of such year and through the day preceding the
Effective Date (and Tenant shall have no rights or responsibility therefor), and Tenant
shall have all rights and shall be responsible for all obligations with respect to such
reconciliation for said calendar year for the period from and after the Effective Date and
through December 31 st  of such year (and Original Tenant shall have no rights or
responsibility therefor). All such Additional Rent reconciliation rights and obligations of
Original Tenant and Tenant shall survive the assignment effectuated hereby.

12.   Additional Rent Abatement.   Notwithstanding anything herein or in the Lease to the
contrary, but subject to the last sentence of this Paragraph 12, an amount equal to fifteen
percent (15%) of the Additional Rent otherwise due and owing from Tenant hereunder relative to the
Remainder Leased Premises shall abate during the 24-month period from and after the Effective Date
and through the day preceding the 24-month anniversary thereof (the   Partial Additional Rent
Abatement Period   provided, however, that Tenant shall continue to remain responsible for the
balance of Additional Rent (i.e., being 85% of the Additional Rent which would otherwise be due
and owing under the Lease) due and owing during such Partial Additional Rent Abatement Period, and
for all Base Rent and other obligations of Tenant due and owing relative to said Partial
Additional Rent Abatement Period, and provided further, that Tenant shall be responsible for all
rental and other obligations hereunder from and after the end of such Partial Additional Rent
Abatement Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing and without limitation of other remedies available
to Landlord, it is acknowledged and agreed that Tenant shall not be entitled to the foregoing
partial Additional Rent abatement relative to any month or months occurring within the Partial
Additional Rent Abatement Period during which Tenant is otherwise in  Default  in the payment of
Rent under the Lease (i.e., after expiration of appliable cure periods set forth therein).

5

13.   Security Deposit.   It is acknowledged that Original Tenant has heretofore delivered
a Letter of Credit Security Deposit under Paragraph 11 of the Second Amendment, which has been
converted to cash in the sum of $845,000.00 and which is currently being held by Landlord as the
 Security Deposit  under the Lease (herein, the   Current Security Deposit  ). It is further
acknowledged that, pursuant to the Side-Letter, all Monthly Base Rent and the Additional Rent
Estimate attributable to the Excluded Premises (i.e., being calculated at a rate of $80,495.56 for
March, 2002 and thereafter at a rate of $91,007.69 per month for Monthly Base Rent, and at a rate
of $63,325.19 per month for Additional Rent Estimate, prorated on a per diem basis for any partial
calendar month) is being deferred under the Lease from and after March 1, 2002 and through the
Effective Date (herein in the aggregate, the   Deferred Rent  ), all of which is due and owing by
Original Tenant on or before the Effective Date hereof. Landlord, Original Tenant and Tenant hereby
agree to the following terms relative to the Security Deposit required under the Lease and the
aforedescribed Current Security Deposit and Deferred Rent:

(a) Original Tenant and Tenant hereby direct Landlord to disburse to
Landlord s own account and to retain, on the Effective Date, from the Current Security
Deposit being held by Landlord, an amount equal to all Deferred Rent which has accrued
through the Effective Date, which amount shall be applied against Deferred Rent due and
owing from Original Tenant under the Lease. In the event that the amount of Deferred
Rent accruing through the Effective Date exceeds the amount of the Current Security
Deposit being held by Landlord, then Landlord shall so disburse and retain the entire
Current Security Deposit as provided in the preceding sentence, and, in addition,
Original
Tenant shall pay Landlord, on or before the Effective Date, the entire amount of such
excess of Deferred Rent over the amount of the Current Security Deposit. Any payment
due from Original Tenant as provided in the preceding sentence shall be paid in cash,
or
by certified or cashiers check or wire transfer of same-day funds, and without
limitation
of other remedies available to Landlord, it is understood and agreed that such timely
payment shall be a further condition (at Landlord s sole election) to the effectiveness
of
the Amendment.

(b) On or before the Effective Date, and as a further condition (at Landlord s
sole election) to the effectiveness of this Amendment, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord
a
Letter of Credit in the amount of $422,500.00, otherwise meeting the letter of credit
requirements described in Paragraph 11 of the Second Amendment, which amount shall
thereafter constitute the requisite  Security Deposit  under the Lease. All terms
governing such Security Deposit shall remain as set forth in Paragraph 11 of the Second
Amendment, modified as follows:

(i) provided that Landlord has then received the requisite Security Deposit as
set forth in this Paragraph 13(b), then the Security Deposit Reduction schedule set
forth on page 12 of the Second Amendment shall be deleted effective as of the
Effective Date, and the following shall be substituted therefor:

6

(ii) the last full paragraph of Paragraph 11 of the Second
Amendment (i.e., beginning with the language  If the net income... ) is deleted in
its entirety.

(c) Provided that Landlord has then received the requisite Security Deposit as set
forth in Paragraph 13(b) above, then, no later than five (5) business days following
the Effective Date, Landlord shall deliver the balance of the Current Security Deposit
(i.e., being the Current Security Deposit less the amount applied to pay Deferred Rent
as described in Paragraph 13(a) above), if any, to or at the direction of Original
Tenant.

14.    Renewal Option.   It is acknowledged that Tenant constitutes a  Tenant
Successor  (as defined in Section 15(h) of the Original Lease) for all purposes of the Lease,
and,
as such, the terms of Section 37 of the Original Lease (i.e., entitled  Renewal Option ) shall
continue to apply in full force and effect from and after the assignment to Tenant being
effectuated hereby, all in accordance with the terms of said Section 37.

15.    Real Estate Brokers.  

(a) Original Tenant represents and warrants that Original Tenant has not dealt
with any broker in connection with this Amendment and Original Tenant agrees to
indemnify and hold Landlord, its members, the managing agent and the leasing agent of
the Building harmless from all losses, damages, liabilities, claims, costs and expenses
(including reasonable attorneys  fees) arising from any claims or demands of any broker
or brokers or finders for any commission alleged to be due such broker or brokers or
finders claiming to have dealt with Original Tenant in connection with this Amendment.

(b) Tenant represents and warrants that Tenant has not dealt with any broker
in connection with this Amendment and Tenant agrees to indemnify and hold Landlord,
its members, the managing agent and the leasing agent of the Building harmless from all
losses, damages, liabilities, claims, costs and expenses (including reasonable
attorneys 
fees) arising from any claims or demands of any broker or brokers or finders for any
commission alleged to be due such broker or brokers or finders claiming to have dealt
with Tenant in connection with this Amendment.

(c) Landlord represents and warrants that Landlord has not dealt with any
broker in connection with this Amendment and Landlord agrees to indemnify and hold

7

Tenant and Original Tenant harmless from all losses, damages, liabilities and
expenses (including reasonable attorneys  fees) arising from any claims or demands of any
broker or brokers or finders for any commission alleged to be due such broker or brokers
or finders claiming to have dealt with Landlord in connection with this Amendment.

16.    As-Is.   Tenant hereby accepts the Premises in its  as-is  condition. Tenant
acknowledges that Landlord shall not be required to make any improvements to the Premises or to
contribute any allowance proceeds therefor, in order for Tenant to ready the Premises for its
occupancy during the balance of the Lease term.

17.    Inapplicable Provisions.   It is acknowledged and agreed that the terms of
Sections 34, 35 and 36 of the Lease (i.e., entitled  Initial Growth Space ,  Right of First Offer 
and  Expansion Option , respectively) are no longer applicable, and such provisions are deemed null
and void. Further, it is acknowledged and agreed that Landlord shall have no further obligations
under the  Additional Premises Workletter  attached to the Second Amendment (i.e., including,
without limitation, any further construction obligations or any obligations to fund any further
portion of the  Allowances  thereunder), and all such obligations of Landlord under said Additional
Premises Workletter are hereby terminated and deemed null and void. Further, it is acknowledged and
agreed that Paragraphs 8 and 10 of the Second Amendment (i.e., entitled  Lobby Signage  and  Right
of First Offer , respectively) are no longer applicable, and such provisions are hereby terminated
and deemed null and void. Finally, it is acknowledged and agreed that subparagraph (a) of
Paragraph 9 of the Second Amendment (i.e., said Paragraph 9 being entitled  Staircase and Fire
Stairwell ) is no longer applicable, and such subparagraph (a) of Paragraph 9 of the Second
Amendment is hereby terminated and deemed null and void, and, further, it is agreed that
subparagraph (b) of such Paragraph 9 of the Second Amendment is hereby amended by deleting the
phrase  23 rd , 24 th , 25 th  and 26 th  floors  from the
second line thereof, and by substituting the, phrase  23 rd  and 24 th  floors 
therefor. As a result of the foregoing, the parties acknowledge and agree that there are no
further expansion or first offer rights under the Lease of any kind which remain effective from and
after the date hereof.

18.    Parking.   Landlord hereby confirms that Original Tenant has not heretofore waived
any of its parking spaces under Section 41 of the Lease, and Landlord agrees that Tenant shall be
entitled to all of Tenant s parking rights under said Section 41 as of the Effective Date, all as
and in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in said Section 41.

19.    Conditions Precedent.  

(a) The Amendment is expressly conditioned upon the  Closing Date  (as
hereinafter defined) having occurred on or before August 31, 2002. Notwithstanding anything
herein to the contrary, in the event the  Closing Date  does not so occur on or before
August 31,2002 (time being of the essence), for any reason, then this Amendment (including,
without limitation, the assignment of Original Tenant s interest hereunder and Landlord s
consent thereto) shall thereupon terminate, without further action of either party,
whereupon this Amendment shall be null and void in its entirety, and the Lease shall
continue, in full force and effect, without regard hereto. For purposes hereof, the term
  Closing Date   shall mean the date when both of the following events have occurred: (i) the
conveyance of all or substantially all of the assets of Original Tenant to Tenant, and (ii)
the issuance of a bankruptcy court order, issued by the appropriate United States
bankruptcy court which has jurisdiction over the current Chapter 11 bankruptcy

8

proceeding involving Guarantor, as debtor, whereby such bankruptcy court expressly
authorizes the transaction described in subclause (i) of this sentence.

(b) Without limitation of the condition precedent described in Paragraph 19(a), it is
hereby further agreed that this Amendment (including, without limitation, the assignment
of Original Tenant s interest hereunder and Landlord s consent thereto) is expressly
conditioned upon the execution and delivery by Existing Mortgagee of its  Mortgagee
Joinder Consent  attached to this Amendment, and if Existing Mortgagee fails, for any
reason, to so execute and deliver such Mortgagee Joinder Consent on or before May 24, 2002
(time being of the essence), then this Amendment shall thereupon terminate without further
action of either party, whereupon this Amendment shall be null and void in its entirety,
and the Lease shall continue, in full force and effect, without regard hereto.

20.   Subordination of Lease.   Section 20(a) of the Original Lease (i.e., entitled
 Subordination of Lease ) is hereby amended by adding the following language to the end of the
third full sentence thereof, following the phrase  subject to the remaining provisions of this
Section :

and subject, in any event, to Tenant and any such Mortgagee or Ground Lessor
entering into a subordination, non-disturbance and attornment agreement as
described in the last sentence of this Section 20(a) .

21.    Existing Non-Disturbance Agreement.   The parties acknowledge and agree that the
Non-Disturbance Agreement being assigned to Tenant hereunder satisfies the requirement for a
subordination, non-disturbance and attornment agreement from Existing Mortgagee as required under
Section 20 of the Lease (as such Section 20 has been amended by Paragraph 20 above), and that
Existing Mortgagee shall have no obligation to enter into any further subordination,
non-disturbance and attornment agreement with respect to the Lease.

22.    Entire Agreement.   The entire agreement of the parties with respect to the
matters covered hereby is set forth in this Amendment and in the Lease as amended hereby.

23.    Counterparts.   This Amendment may be executed in multiple counterparts which,
when taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument.

24.    Lease in Full Force and Effect.   Except as herein provided, all the terms and
provisions of the Lease shall remain in full force and effect, and Section 43 of the Original Lease
shall apply to this Amendment and to the Lease, as amended hereby.

Signature Page Follows  

9

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  this Amendment is executed by the parties as of the day and year
first set forth above.

LANDLORD:   

ORIGINAL TENANT:   

303 WACKER REALTY L.L.C.  

PROMOTIONAL MARKETING,  

L.L.C.,  an Illinois limited liability 

By: 
       
      Hines Three Illinois Center  
       
     Company d/b/a  UPSHOT  

Associates Limited Partnership,  its 

managing member 

By :

/s/ Marc S. Simon 

By: 
       
      Hines Three Illinois Center  
       
      Name:  
       
     Marc S. Simon 

L.L.C.,  a general partner 
       
      Title:  
       
      Manager 

TENANT:   

By: 
       
      Hines Interests Limited 
Partnership,  a member 

By: 
       
      Hines Holdings, Inc.,  
       
      EQUITY MARKETING, INC.,  a 

its general partner 
       
     Delaware corporation 

By:

/s/ C. Kelvin Shannahan 

Name:

C. KELVIN SHANNAHAN 
       
     By:

/s/ Leland P. Smith 

Title:

EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT 
       
     Name:

Leland P. Smith 

Title:

SVP 

10

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
AND CONSENT  

The undersigned  Guarantor  hereby acknowledges and consents to the terms of the
foregoing Amendment, and confirms that the Guaranty remains in full force and effect and shall
continue to apply, in all respects, relative to the obligations of  Original Tenant  under the
Lease, as amended by the foregoing Amendment; provided, however, that (a) Guarantor shall have no
obligations or liabilities under the Guaranty pertaining to any liabilities or obligations of the
 Tenant  under the Lease first arising or accruing from and after the Effective Date (with
Guarantor being expressly released therefrom), and (b) nothing contained herein shall constitute
an assumption by Guarantor of the Guaranty within the meaning of Section 365 of the Bankruptcy
Code; and provided further, however, that nothing contained herein shall operate to transform the
obligations, if any, of Guarantor under the Guaranty into administrative or priority claims under
Sections 503 and/or 507 of the Bankruptcy Code.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this acknowledgement and
consent as of the 22nd day of May, 2002.

GUARANTOR:  

HA-LO INDUSTRIES, INC.,  

an Illinois corporation 

By:

/s/ Marc S. Simon 

Name:

Marc S. Simon

Title:

CEO 

11

MORTGAGEE
JOINDER CONSENT  

The undersigned, being the  Existing Mortgagee  as defined in the foregoing Amendment
and the current holder of the first mortgage encumbering the building located at 303 E. Wacker
Drive in Chicago, Illinois, hereby joins in the execution of such Amendment for the purpose of
consenting to the terms of such Amendment (including, without limitation, the assignment of
Original Tenant s interest under the Lease and under the Non-Disturbance Agreement to Tenant, as
therein described), and Existing Mortgagee hereby acknowledges and agrees that, by virtue of Tenant
succeeding to all of Original Tenant s interest under the Lease, Tenant shall be deemed a
 permitted assign  of Original Tenant s interest under the Non-Disturbance Agreement described in
said Amendment, for all purposes.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Mortgagee Joinder Consent as of the
22nd day of May  2002.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY  

By:

/s/ Mitchell E. Ryan 

Name:

MITCHELL E. RYAN

Title:

VICE PRESIDENT 

12

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.9>
 6
 v19133exv10w9.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.9

exv10w9 

Exhibit 10.9 

EMAK WORLDWIDE, INC., 
EQUITY MARKETING, INC., 
SCI PROMOTION, INC., 
POP ROCKET, INC. 
LOGISTIX, INC., 
UPSHOT, INC., 
EMAK WORLDWIDE SERVICE CORP., 
CORINTHIAN MARKETING, INC., 
JOHNSON GROSSFIELD, INC.,  
and 
 EQUITY MARKETING HONG KONG, LTD., 

as Borrowers

LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT 

Dated as of March 29, 2006

$25,000,000

CERTAIN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, 

as Lenders

and

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A .,

as Agent

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

-i-

TABLE OF CONTENTS  (continued)

-ii-

TABLE OF CONTENTS  (continued)

-iii-

TABLE OF CONTENTS  (continued)

-iv-

LIST OF EXHIBITS AND SCHEDULES  

Exhibit A

Revolver Note 

Exhibit B

Assignment and Acceptance 

Exhibit C

Assignment Notice 

Exhibit D

Collateral Access Agreement 

Exhibit E

Domestic Pledge Agreement 

Exhibit F

Additional Borrower Counterpart 

Exhibit G

Non-Offset Letter 

Exhibit H

Imported Goods Agreement 

-v-

LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT  

THIS LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT  is dated as of March 29, 2006 by and among  EMAK WORLDWIDE,
INC.,  a Delaware corporation (  EMAK  ),  EQUITY MARKETING, INC. , a Delaware corporation
(  EMI  ),  SCI PROMOTION, INC. , a Delaware corporation (  SCI  ),  POP ROCKET, INC. , a
Delaware corporation (  Pop Rocket  ),  LOGISTIX, INC. , a Delaware corporation
(  Logistix  ),  UPSHOT, INC. , a Delaware corporation (  Upshot  ),  EMAK WORLDWIDE
SERVICE CORP. , a Delaware corporation (  EMAK Worldwide  ),  CORINTHIAN MARKETING, INC. , a
Delaware corporation (  Corinthian  ),  JOHNSON GROSSFIELD, INC. , a Delaware corporation
(  Johnson  ) and  EQUITY MARKETING HONG KONG, LTD. , a Delaware corporation (  Equity
Marketing   and together with EMAK, EMI, SCI, Pop Rocket, Upshot, EMAK Worldwide, Corinthian,
Johnson and future Subsidiaries executing this Agreement in accordance with  Section 10.1.9 ,
collectively referred to herein as   Borrowers  , and individually as a   Borrower  ),
the financial institutions party to this Agreement from time to time as lenders (collectively,
  Lenders  ), and  BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. , a national banking association (  Bank of
America  ), as agent for Lenders (  Agent  ).

R E C I T A L S  :

Borrowers have requested that Lenders make available a credit facility, to be used by
Borrowers to finance their mutual and collective business enterprise. Lenders are willing to
provide such credit facility on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.

NOW, THEREFORE , for valuable consideration hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS; RULES OF CONSTRUCTION 

1.1 Definitions.  As used herein, the following terms have the meanings set forth below:

AAA    as defined in  Section 14.13 .

Account    as defined in the UCC, including all rights to payment for goods sold or
leased, or for services rendered.

Account Debtor    a Person who is obligated under an Account, Chattel Paper or General
Intangible.

Accounts Formula Amount    85% of the Value of Eligible Accounts;  provided ,
 however , that such percentage shall be reduced by 1.0% for each 0.5 percentage point that
the Dilution Percent exceeds 7.5%.

Acquisition    any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or
resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all or any
significant portion of the assets of a Person, or of any business or division of a Person, (b) the
acquisition of in excess of 50% of the capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests
or equity of any Person, or otherwise causing any Person to become a Subsidiary (other than the
creation of a newly formed Subsidiary of a Obligor), or (c) a merger or consolidation or any other
combination with another Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary);  provided  that a
Borrower or a wholly-owned Subsidiary that becomes a Borrower is the surviving entity.

Adjusted LIBOR    for any Interest Period, with respect to LIBOR Loans, the per annum
rate of interest (rounded upward, if necessary, to the nearest 1/8th of 1%) appearing on Telerate
Page 3750, or if such page is unavailable, the Reuters Screen LIBO Page (or any successor page of
either, as applicable),

as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in Dollars at
approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest
Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period; provided, however, if the Reuters Screen LIBO
Page is used and more than one rate is shown on such page, the applicable rate shall be the
arithmetic mean thereof. If for any reason none of the foregoing rates is available, the Offshore
Base Rate shall be the rate per annum determined by Agent as the rate of interest at which Dollar
deposits in the approximate amount of the applicable LIBOR Loan would be offered to major banks in
the offshore Dollar market at or about 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the
first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period. If the Board of
Governors shall impose a Reserve Percentage with respect to LIBOR deposits, then Adjusted LIBOR
shall equal the amount determined above, divided by 1 minus the Reserve Percentage.

Affiliate    with respect to any Person, another Person (a) who directly, or indirectly
through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such
first Person; (b) who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting securities or of Equity Interests
of such first Person; (c) at least 10% of whose voting securities or of Equity Interests is
beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by such first Person; or (d) who is an officer,
director, partner or managing member of such first Person.   Control   means the possession,
directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause direction of the management and policies of
a Person, whether through ownership of Equity Interests, by contract or otherwise.

Agency of Record Agreement    any agency of record agreements between a Borrower and
its customer providing for the performance of services by such Borrower in exchange for a fixed fee
payable over time.

Agent Indemnitees    Agent and its officers, directors, employees, Affiliates, agents
and attorneys.

Agent Professionals    attorneys, accountants, appraisers, auditors, business valuation
experts, environmental engineers or consultants, turnaround consultants, and other professionals
and experts retained by Agent.

Agreement    this Loan and Security Agreement, as amended, restated, extended,
supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time.

Allocable Amount    as defined in  Section 5.10.6 .

Anti-Terrorism Laws    any laws relating to terrorism or money laundering, including
the Patriot Act.

Applicable Law    all laws, rules, regulations and governmental guidelines applicable
to the Person, conduct, transaction, agreement or matter in question, including all applicable
statutory law, common law and equitable principles, and all provisions of constitutions, treaties,
statutes, rules, regulations, orders and decrees of Governmental Authorities.

Applicable Margin    with respect to any Base Rate Revolver Loans is 0.75% and with
respect to any LIBOR Revolver Loans is 2.50%;  provided , that during the Inventory Borrowing
Period, to the extent that any portion of the Revolver Loans outstanding on any day would have
exceeded the Borrowing Base as of such day but for the availability of the Inventory Formula Amount
(such amount of the Revolver Loans being referred to herein as the  Inventory Borrowing Portion ),
the Applicable Margin for such Revolver Loans that relate to the Inventory Borrowing Portion is (a)
with respect to such Revolver Loans that are Base Rate Revolver Loans, 1.25% and (b) with respect
to such Revolver Loans that are LIBOR Revolver Loans, 3.00% (it being understood and agreed that
(i) if both Base Rate Revolver Loans and
LIBOR Revolver Loans are outstanding on any day during the Inventory Borrowing Period, subject
to clause (ii) below, any Base Rate Revolver Loans shall be deemed to relate first to the Inventory
Borrowing Portion as of such day before any LIBOR Revolver Loans are deemed to relate to any part
of

-2-

such Inventory Borrowing Portion and (ii) if after giving effect to the foregoing clause (i) all
or any portion of a LIBOR Loan is deemed to relate to all or any part of the Inventory Borrowing
Portion, then the higher Applicable Margin (i.e., 3.00% instead of 2.50%) shall continue to apply
to such LIBOR Loan (or the applicable part thereof as of such day) until the end of the applicable
Interest Period whether or not the Inventory Borrowing Period terminates prior to the end of such
Interest Period and whether or not such LIBOR Loan (or any part thereof) is no longer deemed to
relate to all or any part of the Inventory Borrowing Portion (e.g., as a result of an increase in
the Accounts Formula Amount or a decrease in the Inventory Borrowing Portion during the applicable
Interest Period)); provided, that nothing in this definition shall authorize Borrowers to request a
LIBOR Revolver Loan with respect to the Inventory Borrowing Portion.

Approved Fund    any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making,
holding or investing in extensions of credit in its ordinary course of business and is administered
or managed by a Lender, an entity that administers or manages a Lender, or an Affiliate of either.

Asset Disposition    a sale, lease, license, consignment, transfer or other disposition
of Property of an Obligor, including a disposition of Property in connection with a sale-leaseback
transaction or synthetic lease.

Assignment and Acceptance    an assignment agreement between a Lender and Eligible
Assignee, in the form of  Exhibit B .

Attorney Costs    all reasonable fees and disbursements of any law firm or other
external counsel and the reasonable allocated cost of internal legal services and all disbursements
of internal counsel.

Availability    determined as of any date, the amount that Borrowers are entitled to
borrow as Revolver Loans, being the Borrowing Base minus the principal balance of all Revolver
Loans.

Availability Block    (i) in the event that each of BK, RSI and their respective
Affiliates have delivered a Non-Offset Letter with respect to the BK Agreements to which they are a
party in form and substance satisfactory to Agent before June 30, 2006, the Availability Block from
the Closing Date and thereafter shall be $0, (ii) in the event that RSI and its Affiliates (but not
all of BK and its Affiliates) have delivered a Non-Offset Letter with respect to the BK Agreements
to which they are a party in form and substance satisfactory to Agent before June 30, 2006, the
Availability Block from the Closing Date until June 30, 2006 shall be $0 and the Availability Block
thereafter shall be the lesser of (a) $500,000 and (b) the increase in Availability that would
result from the aggregate amount of Eligible Accounts owing from BK and its Affiliates from time to
time, and (iii) otherwise, the Availability Block from the Closing Date until June 30, 2006 shall
be $0 and the Availability Block thereafter shall be the lesser of (a) $1,000,000 and (b) the
increase in Availability that would result from the aggregate amount of Eligible Accounts owing
from BK, RSI and their respective Affiliates from time to time;  provided ,  however ,
that if before June 30, 2006, an Inventory Borrowing Period occurs, (1) in the event that each of
BK, RSI and their respective Affiliates have delivered a Non-Offset Letter with respect to the BK
Agreements to which they are a party in form and substance satisfactory to Agent on or before the
first day of such Inventory Borrowing Period, the Availability Block from the Closing Date and
thereafter shall be $0, (2) in the event that RSI and its Affiliates (but not all of BK and its
Affiliates) have delivered a Non-Offset Letter with respect to the BK Agreements to which they are
a party in form and substance satisfactory to Agent before the first day of such Inventory
Borrowing Period, the Availability Block from the Closing Date until the day preceding the first
day of such Inventory Borrowing Period shall be $0 and the Availability Block thereafter shall be
the lesser of (a) $500,000 and (b) the increase in Availability that would result from the
aggregate amount of Eligible Accounts owing from BK and its Affiliates from time to time, and
(3) otherwise, the Availability Block from the Closing Date until the day preceding the first
day of such Inventory Borrowing Period shall be $0 and the Availability Block thereafter shall be
the lesser of (a)

-3-

$1,000,000 and (b) the increase in Availability that would result from the
aggregate amount of Eligible Accounts owing from BK, RSI and their respective Affiliates from time
to time.

Availability Reserve    the sum (without duplication) of (a) the Inventory Reserve; (b)
the Rent and Charges Reserve; (c) the LC Reserve; (d) the Bank Product Reserve; (e) all accrued
Royalties with respect to any Eligible Inventory and/or any Eligible Account that is included in
the Borrowing Base, whether or not then due and payable by a Borrower; (f) the aggregate amount of
liabilities secured by Liens upon Collateral that are senior to Agent s Liens (but imposition of
any such reserve shall not waive an Event of Default arising therefrom); (g) the Availability
Block; and (h) such additional reserves and in such amounts as Agent may determine in its sole
discretion including without limitation those based upon (1) its consideration of any factor that
it believes could result in the loss of any material customer of any Borrower, a disruption in the
relationship between any Borrower or any of its customers or an adverse change in the business
prospects or business mix of any Borrower, (2) the termination of, an amendment adverse to any
Borrower or Lender, or the failure to renew, any agreement of any Borrower (including without
limitation any Related Document), or (3) Agent s consideration of any factor that it believes
creates or could result in a Default or an Event of Default.

Bank of America    Bank of America, N.A., a national banking association, and its
successors and assigns.

Bank of America Indemnitees    Bank of America and its officers, directors, employees,
Affiliates, agents and attorneys.

Bank Product    any of the following products, services or facilities extended to any
Borrower or Subsidiary by Bank of America or any of its Affiliates: (a) Cash Management Services;
(b) products under Hedging Agreements; (c) commercial credit card and merchant card services; and
(d) other banking products or services as may be requested by any Borrower or Subsidiary, other
than Letters of Credit.

Bank Product Debt    Debt and other obligations of an Obligor relating to Bank
Products.

Bank Product Reserve    the aggregate amount of reserves established by Agent from time
to time in its discretion in respect of Bank Product Debt.

Bankruptcy Code    Title 11 of the United States Code.

Base Rate    the rate of interest announced by Bank of America from time to time as its
prime rate. Such rate is a reference rate only and Bank of America may make loans or other
extensions of credit at, above or below it. Any change in the prime rate announced by Bank of
America shall take effect at the opening of business on the effective date specified in the public
announcement of the change.

Base Rate Revolver Loan    a Revolver Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.

BK    Burger King Corporation, a Florida corporation.

BK Agreements    the BK Services Agreements, the BK Supply Agreements, the RSI Supply
Agreement and any other agreements entered into from time to time between BK, RSI or any of their
respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and any Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries,
on the other hand, and any material purchase orders and similar agreements or arrangements entered
into from time to time with respect to any of the foregoing.

BK Group    has meaning assigned to such term in the definition of Eligible Accounts.

BK Services Agreements - (i) that certain Services Agreement dated as of October 1,
2002 between Equity Marketing, Inc. and BK, (ii) that certain Services Agreement effective as of
July 1, 2004

-4-

between EMAK and BK, and (iii) any other services agreements entered into from time to
time between BK or any of its Affiliates and any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, in each case
as such agreement is in effect on the Closing Date (to the extent in effect on the Closing Date)
and as such agreement may be amended from time to time thereafter to the extent permitted under
 Section 10.2.21 .

BK Supply Agreements    (i) that certain Terms and Conditions of Supply Agreement dated
as of October 1, 2002 between BK and Equity Marketing, Inc., (ii) that certain International Master
Premium Supply Agreement dated as of October 1, 2002 between BK and Equity Marketing, Inc., and
(iii) any other supply agreements entered into from time to time between BK or any of its
Affiliates and any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, in each case as such agreement is in effect
on the Closing Date (in the case of clauses (i) and (ii)) and as such agreement may be amended from
time to time thereafter to the extent permitted under  Section 10.2.21 .

Board of Governors    the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.

Borrowed Money    with respect to any Obligor, without duplication, its (a) Debt that
(i) arises from the lending of money by any Person to such Obligor, (ii) is evidenced by notes,
drafts, bonds, debentures, credit documents or similar instruments, (iii) accrues interest or is a
type upon which interest charges are customarily paid (excluding trade payables owing in the
Ordinary Course of Business), or (iv) was issued or assumed as full or partial payment for
Property; (b) Capital Leases; (c) reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit; and
(d) guaranties of any Debt of the foregoing types owing by another Person.

Borrower Agent    as defined in  Section 4.4 .

Borrowers    has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph hereto.

Borrowing    a group of Revolver Loans of one Type that are made on the same day or are
converted into Revolver Loans of one Type on the same day.

Borrowing Base    on any date of determination, an amount equal to the lesser of (a)
the aggregate amount of Revolver Commitments,  minus  the LC Reserve,  minus  the
Availability Block; or (b) the sum of the Accounts Formula Amount,  plus , solely during the
Inventory Borrowing Period, the Inventory Formula Amount,  minus  the Availability Reserve.

Borrowing Base Certificate    a certificate, in form and substance satisfactory to
Agent, by which Borrowers certify calculation of the Borrowing Base.

Business Day    any day (a) excluding Saturday, Sunday and any other day on which banks
are permitted to be closed under the laws of the States of North Carolina and California; and (b)
when used with reference to a LIBOR Loan, also excluding any day on which banks do not conduct
dealings in Dollar deposits on the London interbank market.

Capital Adequacy Regulation    any law, rule, regulation, guideline, request or
directive of any central bank or other Governmental Authority, whether or not having the force of
law, regarding capital adequacy of a bank or any Person controlling a bank.

Capital Expenditures    all liabilities incurred, expenditures made or payments due
(whether or not made) by a Borrower or Subsidiary for the acquisition of any fixed assets, or any
improvements, replacements, substitutions or additions thereto with a useful life of more than one
year, including the principal portion of Capital Leases. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, Capital Expenditures shall include, for any period, the aggregate of all expenditures
(whether paid in cash or other
consideration or accrued as a liability and including that portion of Capital Leases which is
capitalized on the consolidated balance sheet of Borrowers and Subsidiaries) by Borrowers and
Subsidiaries during that

-5-

period that, in conformity with GAAP, are included in  additions to
property, plant or equipment  or comparable items reflected in the consolidated statement of cash
flows of Borrowers and Subsidiaries and shall include the aggregate of all expenditures by
Borrowers and Subsidiaries during that period to acquire (by purchase or otherwise) the business,
property or fixed assets of any Person, or the stock or other evidence of beneficial ownership of
any Person that, as a result of such acquisition, becomes a Subsidiary of a Borrower.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any Borrower receives a landlord reimbursement on
or before June 30, 2006 with respect to certain Capital Expenditures in the form of tenant
improvements made by such Borrower in January of 2006, up to $300,000 of such reimbursement
received by such Borrower on or before June 30, 2006 shall reduce, dollar for dollar, the amount of
Capital Expenditures in the form of tenant improvements made by such Borrower in January of 2006.

Capital Lease    any lease that is required to be capitalized for financial reporting
purposes in accordance with GAAP.

Cash Collateral    cash, and any interest or other income earned thereon, that is
delivered to Agent to Cash Collateralize any Obligations.

Cash Collateral Account    a demand deposit, money market or other account established
by Agent at such financial institution as Agent may select in its discretion, which account shall
be subject to Agent s Liens for the benefit of Secured Parties.

Cash Collateralize    the delivery of cash to Agent, as security for the payment of
Obligations, in an amount equal to (a) with respect to LC Obligations, 105% of the aggregate LC
Obligations, and (b) with respect to any inchoate or contingent Obligations (including Obligations
arising under Bank Products), Agent s good faith estimate of the amount due or to become due,
including all fees and other amounts relating to such Obligations.   Cash
Collateralization   has a correlative meaning.

Cash Equivalents    (a) marketable obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by,
and backed by the full faith and credit of, the United States government, maturing within 12 months
of the date of acquisition; (b) certificates of deposit, time deposits and bankers  acceptances
maturing within 12 months of the date of acquisition, and overnight bank deposits, in each case
which are issued by a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States or any state or
district thereof, rated A-1 (or better) by S P or P-1 (or better) by Moody s at the time of
acquisition, and (unless issued by a Lender) not subject to offset rights; (c) repurchase
obligations with a term of not more than 30 days for underlying investments of the types described
in clauses (a) and (b) entered into with any bank meeting the qualifications specified in clause
(b); (d) commercial paper rated A-1 (or better) by S P or P-1 (or better) by Moody s, and maturing
within nine months of the date of acquisition; and (e) shares of any money market fund that has
substantially all of its assets invested continuously in the types of investments referred to
above, has net assets of at least $500,000,000 and has the highest rating obtainable from either
Moody s or S P.

Cash Management Services    any services provided from time to time by Bank of America
or any of its Affiliates to any Borrower or Subsidiary in connection with operating, collections,
payroll, trust, or other depository or disbursement accounts, including automatic clearinghouse,
controlled disbursement, depository, electronic funds transfer, information reporting, lockbox,
stop payment, overdraft and/or wire transfer services.

CERCLA    the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (42
U.S.C.   9601  et   seq .).

-6-

Certificate of Designation    certain Certificate of Designation of Series AA Preferred
Stock of EMAK filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on December 31, 2004 (and
amended on September 2, 2005) pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State
of Delaware.

Change of Control    an event or series of events by which:

(a) EMAK ceases to own and control, beneficially and of record, directly or indirectly,
all Equity Interests in all Borrowers (other than EMAK), except for the consolidation or
merger of one Borrower with another Borrower to the extent permitted under  Section 10.2.9 ;

(b) any  person  or  group  (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or
its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other
fiduciary or administrator of any such plan and other than Crown so long as any such
 person  or  group  does not become the  beneficial owner , directly or indirectly, of 40%
or more of the Equity Interests of EMAK entitled to vote for members of the board of
directors of EMAK on a fully diluted basis) becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in
Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that a person or
group shall be deemed to have  beneficial ownership  of all securities that such person or
group has the right to acquire (such right, an  option right ), whether such right is
exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of 20%
or more of the Equity Interests of EMAK entitled to vote for members of the board of
directors or equivalent governing body of EMAK on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into
account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to
any option right);

(c) during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board
of directors or other equivalent governing body of EMAK cease to be composed of individuals
(i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such
period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was
approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such
election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or
(iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was
approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time
of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing
body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose
initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that board or equivalent
governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or
consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other
than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board
of directors);

(d) any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert (other than Crown) shall have
acquired by contract or otherwise, or shall have entered into a contract or arrangement
that, upon consummation thereof, will result in its or their acquisition of the power to
exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence over the management or policies of
EMAK, or control over the Equity Interests of EMAK entitled to vote for members of the board
of directors or equivalent governing body of EMAK on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into
account all such securities that such Person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to
any option right) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of such securities;

(e) all or substantially all of a Borrower s assets are sold or transferred, other than
sale or transfer to another Borrower; or

-7-

(f) a  Change of Control  (whether as defined in the Certificate of Designation as in
effect on the date hereof or as defined in the Certificate of Designation as amended after
the date hereof).

Chattel Paper    as defined in the UCC.

Claims    all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, judgments,
proceedings, costs and expenses of any kind (including remedial response costs, reasonable
attorneys  fees and Extraordinary Expenses) at any time (including after Full Payment of the
Obligations, resignation or replacement of Agent, or replacement of any Lender) incurred by or
asserted against any Indemnitee in any way relating to (a) any Loan Documents or transactions
relating thereto, (b) any action taken or omitted to be taken by any Indemnitee in connection with
any Loan Documents, (c) the existence or perfection of any Liens, or realization upon any
Collateral, (d) exercise of any rights or remedies under any Loan Documents or Applicable Law, or
(e) failure by any Obligor to perform or observe any terms of any Loan Document, in each case
including all costs and expenses relating to any investigation, litigation, arbitration or other
proceeding (including an Insolvency Proceeding or appellate proceedings), whether or not the
applicable Indemnitee is a party thereto.

Closing Date    as defined in  Section 6.1 .

Collateral    all Property described in  Section 7.1 , all Property described in any
Security Documents as security for any Obligations, and all other Property that now or hereafter
secures (or is intended to secure) any Obligations.

Collateral Access Agreement    any landlord waiver, mortgagee waiver, bailee letter or
any similar acknowledgement agreement of any landlord or mortgagee in respect of any Real Estate or
other location where any Inventory is located or any warehouseman or processor in possession of
Inventory (other than immaterial Inventory) (which locations, as of the date hereof, are set forth
on  Schedule 7.3 ), substantially in the form of  Exhibit D  annexed hereto, with such changes thereto
as may be agreed to by Agent in the reasonable exercise of its discretion.

Commercial Tort Claim    as defined in the UCC.

Commitment Fee Rate    as defined in  Section 3.2.1 .

Commitment Termination Date    the earliest to occur of (a) the Revolver Termination
Date; (b) the date on which Borrowers terminate the Revolver Commitments pursuant to  Section 2.1.4 ;
or (c) the date on which the Revolver Commitments are terminated pursuant to  Section 11.2 .

Commitment Utilization Percentage    for any day, the ratio of (a) the sum of (i) the
principal amount of the Revolver Loans outstanding on such day plus (ii) the stated amount of
Letters of Credit outstanding on such day to (b) the aggregate amount of Revolver Commitments for
such day, expressed as a percentage.

Common Stock    the common stock, $.001 par value, of EMAK.

Common Warrants    those certain warrants dated March 19, 2004 issued to Crown
pursuant to which Crown has the right to purchase 357,000 shares of Common Stock at $16.00 per
share expiring March 29, 2010, 79,333 shares of Common Stock at $18.00 per share expiring March 29,
2010, 393,000 shares of Common Stock at $16.00 per share expiring June 20, 2010 and 87,333 shares
of Common Stock at $18.00 per share expiring June 20, 2010.

Compliance Certificate    a certificate, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent,
by which Borrowers certify compliance with  Sections 10.2.3  and  10.3 .

-8-

Conforming Letter of Credit    (a) an irrevocable letter of credit satisfactory to
Agent (as to form, substance and issuer) that is assigned to and directory drawable by Agent
(unless such assignment and direct drawability is waived by Agent), or (b) an irrevocable letter of
credit satisfactory to Agent (as to form, substance and issuer) with respect to which Agent has a
perfected first priority Lien in the letter of credit rights thereunder.

Contingent Obligation    any obligation of a Person arising from a guaranty, indemnity
or other assurance of payment or performance of any Debt, lease, dividend or other obligation
(  primary obligations  ) of another obligor (  primary obligor  ) in any manner,
whether directly or indirectly, including any obligation of such Person under any (a) guaranty,
endorsement, co-making or sale with recourse of an obligation of a primary obligor; (b) obligation
to make take-or-pay or similar payments regardless of nonperformance by any other party to an
agreement; and (c) arrangement (i) to purchase any primary obligation or security therefor, (ii) to
supply funds for the purchase or payment of any primary obligation, (iii) to maintain or assure
working capital, equity capital, net worth or solvency of the primary obligor, (iv) to purchase
Property or services for the purpose of assuring the ability of the primary obligor to perform a
primary obligation, or (v) otherwise to assure or hold harmless the holder of any primary
obligation against loss in respect thereof. The amount of any Contingent Obligation shall be
deemed to be the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation (or, if less, the maximum
amount for which such Person may be liable under the instrument evidencing the Contingent
Obligation) or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability with
respect thereto.

Contractual Obligation    as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by
such Person or of any agreement, instrument, mortgage or undertaking to which such Person is a
party or by which it or any of its property is bound or to which it or any of its properties is
subject.

Corinthian    Corinthian Marketing, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

Crown    Crown EMAK Partners, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company formerly known
as Crown Acquisition Partners, LLC.

CWA    the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C.    1251  et   seq .).

Debt    as applied to any Person, without duplication, (a) all items that would be
included as liabilities on a balance sheet in accordance with GAAP, including Capital Leases, but
excluding trade payables incurred and being paid in the Ordinary Course of Business; (b) all
Contingent Obligations; (c) all reimbursement obligations in connection with letters of credit
issued for the account of such Person; and (d) in the case of a Borrower, the Obligations. The
Debt of a Person shall include any recourse Debt of any partnership in which such Person is a
general partner or joint venturer.

Default    an event or condition that, with the lapse of time or giving of notice,
would constitute an Event of Default.

Default Rate    for any Obligation (including, to the extent permitted by law, interest
not paid when due), 2% plus the interest rate otherwise applicable thereto.

Deposit Account    as defined in the UCC.

Deposit Account Control Agreements    the Deposit Account control agreements to be
executed by each institution maintaining a Deposit Account for a Borrower, in favor of Agent, for
the benefit of Secured Parties, as security for the Obligations.

Dilution Percent    the percent, determined on a trailing twelve month basis as of the
end of Borrowers  most recent month, equal to (a) credit memos issued for bad debt write-downs or
write-offs,

-9-

discounts, returns, promotions, credits, credit memos and other dilutive items with respect to
Accounts,  divided   by  (b) gross sales.

Disney    The Walt Disney Company and its Affiliates.

Document    as defined in the UCC.

Dollars    lawful money of the United States.

Domestic Pledge Agreement    the pledge agreement substantially in the form of  Exhibit
E , executed and delivered by Borrowers to Agent on the Closing Date, as amended, supplemented or
otherwise modified from time to time.

Domestic Subsidiary    a Subsidiary that is not a Foreign Subsidiary.

Dominion Account    a special account established by Borrowers at Bank of America or
another bank acceptable to Agent, over which Agent has exclusive control for withdrawal purposes,
which account shall initially be a Bank of America account, account number 14591-38332 (which
account may only be changed with the prior written consent of Agent).

Draft Financial Statements    the draft consolidated financial statements of EMAK for
Fiscal Year 2005 attached hereto as  Schedule 9.1.8 .

EBITDA    for any period, determined on a consolidated basis for Borrowers and
Subsidiaries (other than EMAK Europe Holdings, Limited and its direct and indirect Subsidiaries),
the sum, without duplication, of the amounts for such period of (i) net income, (ii) interest
expense, (iii) provision for income taxes, (iv) depreciation and amortization expense, (v) other
non-cash items consisting of stock-based compensation for which no future cash disbursements will
be made, and (vi) to the extent not included in any of the foregoing, (a) to the extent such period
includes any of the months in Fiscal Year 2005, the non-recurring restructuring charges set forth
in  Schedule 1.1C  hereto for such months, and (b) to the extent such period includes any of the
months in Fiscal Year 2006, the lesser of (I) the non-recurring restructuring charges set forth in
 Schedule 1.1C  hereto for such months and (II) the actual amount of such non-recurring restructuring
charges that fall within such items for such months, but only, in the case of clauses (ii)-(vi), to
the extent deducted in the calculation of net income, less (i) gains arising from the sale of
capital assets or from the write-up of assets, (ii) extraordinary gains, and (iii) non-cash items
added in the calculation of net income.

Eligible Account    an Account owing to a Borrower that arises in the Ordinary Course
of Business from the sale of goods or rendition of services, is payable in Dollars and is deemed by
Agent, in its discretion, to be an Eligible Account. Without limiting the foregoing, no Account
shall be an Eligible Account if (a) it is unpaid for more than 60 days after the original due date,
or more than 90 days (or, (i) solely if the Account Debtor is a member of the BK Group (as defined
below), 60 days and (ii) solely if the Account Debtor is any of Target, Sunoco, Disney, P G,
Kellogg or MBC, 120 days) after the original invoice date; (b) 50% or more of the Accounts owing by
the Account Debtor and its Affiliates are not Eligible Accounts under the foregoing clause; (c)
when aggregated with other Accounts owing by such Account Debtor and its Affiliates or any
designated group of Account Debtors and their Affiliates, as the case may be, it exceeds 10% of the
aggregate Eligible Accounts (or such higher percentage (the   Applicable Concentration
Percentage  ) as Agent may designate for such Account Debtor and its Affiliates or for any group
of Account Debtors and their Affiliates from time to time),  provided  that (i) the
Applicable Concentration Percentage for all of Supply Chain, RSI and BK and their Affiliates,
collectively as a group (such group being referred to herein as the   BK Group  ), shall be
50%,  provided further  that the aggregate Value of such Accounts of Account Debtors in the
BK Group that remain unpaid between 31 and 60 days after the original invoice date shall not exceed
15% of all Eligible Accounts of Account Debtors in the BK Group included hereunder pursuant to this
clause (c)(i)  except  to

-10-

the extent such Accounts originally arose on extended terms with the prior written approval of
Agent in its sole discretion, (ii) the Applicable Concentration Percentage for each of Disney, P G,
Kellogg and MBC is 25%, and (iii) the Applicable Concentration Percentage for MidAmerica Overseas
is 15%; (d) it does not conform with a covenant or representation herein; (e) it is owing by a
creditor or supplier, or is otherwise subject to a potential offset (including without limitation a
potential offset which will permit such Account Debtor to make offset payments to third parties),
counterclaim, dispute, deduction, discount, recoupment, reserve, defense, chargeback, credit or
allowance (but ineligibility shall be limited to the amount thereof); (f) an Insolvency Proceeding
has been commenced by or against the Account Debtor; or the Account Debtor has failed, has
suspended or ceased doing business, is liquidating, dissolving or winding up its affairs, or is not
Solvent; (g) the Account Debtor is organized or has its principal offices or assets outside the
United States or Canada except to the extent the Account is supported by a Conforming Letter of
Credit or the Account Debtor is an Affiliate of a company headquartered in the United States and
specified on  Schedule 1.1D ; (h) it is owing by a Government Authority, unless the Account Debtor is
the United States or any department, agency or instrumentality thereof and the Account has been
assigned to Agent in compliance with the Assignment of Claims Act; (i) it is not subject to a duly
perfected, first priority Lien in favor of Agent, or is subject to any other Lien; (j) the goods
giving rise to it have not been delivered to and accepted by the Account Debtor, the services
giving rise to it have not been accepted by the Account Debtor, or it otherwise does not represent
a final sale; (k) it is evidenced by Chattel Paper or an Instrument of any kind, or has been
reduced to judgment; (l) its payment has been extended, the Account Debtor has made a partial
payment, or it arises from a sale on a cash-on-delivery basis; (m) it arises from a sale to an
Affiliate, or from a sale on a bill-and-hold, guaranteed sale, sale-or-return, sale-on-approval,
consignment, or other repurchase or return basis; (n) it represents a progress billing or retainage
(other than that portion of such Accounts under an Agency of Record Agreement with respect to which
a Borrower has recognized revenue thereunder pursuant to GAAP and has fully rendered services
related to the applicable billing period; provided that such portion shall not be subject to any
dispute or any claims of offset); (o) it includes a billing for interest, fees or late charges, but
ineligibility shall be limited to the extent thereof; (p) it arises from a retail sale to a Person
who is purchasing for personal, family or household purposes; (q) if the applicable Account Debtor
is not a member of the BK Group and if the contract or agreement under or with respect to which any
Account of such Account Debtor or any of its Affiliates arises contains a liquidated damages
provision or any express offset provision and such Account Debtor or any of its Affiliates has not
delivered a fully executed Non-Offset Letter to Agent that would apply to such Account; or (r) if
the applicable Account Debtor is not a member of the BK Group and if the contract or agreement
under or with respect to which any Account of such Account Debtor or any of its Affiliates arises
does not contain any liquidated damages provision or any express offset provision and such Account
Debtor or any of its Affiliates has not delivered a fully executed Non-Offset Letter to Agent that
would apply to such Account (other than such Accounts described in this clause (r) (that would
otherwise be Eligible Accounts) to the extent that inclusion of such Accounts pursuant to this
parenthetical would not result in an aggregate increase in Eligible Accounts in an amount greater
than (i) during the period from the Closing Date until September 30, 2006, the lesser of (1)
$3,500,000 and (2) 30% of the aggregate amount of Eligible Accounts that arise under a contract
(and not, e.g., under a purchase order) owing from all Account Debtors that are not a member of the
BK Group, (ii) during the period from October 1, 2006 until March 31, 2007, the lesser of (1)
$3,000,000 and (2) 25% of the aggregate amount of Eligible Accounts that arise under a contract
(and not, e.g., under a purchase order) owing from all Account Debtors that are not a member of the
BK Group, (iii) during the period from April 1, 2007 until September 30, 2007, the lesser of (1)
$2,000,000 and (2) 20% of the aggregate amount of Eligible Accounts that arise under a contract
(and not, e.g., under a purchase order) owing from all Account Debtors that are not a member of the
BK Group, and (iv) thereafter, the lesser of (1) $1,000,000 and (2) 15% of the aggregate amount of
Eligible Accounts that arise under a contract (and not, e.g., under a purchase order) owing from
all Account Debtors that are not a member of the BK Group) at any time. In calculating delinquent
portions of Accounts, credit balances more than 90 days old will be excluded.

-11-

Eligible Assignee    a Person that is (a) a Lender, U.S.-based Affiliate of a Lender or
Approved Fund; (b) any other financial institution approved by Agent and Borrower Agent (which
approval by Borrower Agent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and shall be deemed given
if no objection is made within two Business Days after notice of the proposed assignment), that is
organized under the laws of the United States or any state or district thereof, has total assets in
excess of $5 billion, extends asset-based lending facilities in its ordinary course of business and
whose becoming an assignee would not constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 4975 of
ERISA or any other Applicable Law; and (c) during any Event of Default, any Person acceptable to
Agent in its discretion.

Eligible Inventory    Inventory owned by a Borrower that Agent, in its discretion,
deems to be Eligible Inventory. Without limiting the foregoing, no Inventory shall be Eligible
Inventory unless it (a) is finished goods, and not work-in-process, packaging or shipping
materials, labels, samples, display items, bags, replacement parts or manufacturing supplies; (b)
is not held on consignment, nor subject to any deposit or downpayment; (c) is in new and saleable
condition and is not damaged, defective, shopworn or otherwise unfit for sale; (d) is not
slow-moving, obsolete or unmerchantable, and does not constitute returned or repossessed goods; (e)
meets all standards imposed by any Governmental Authority, and does not constitute hazardous
materials under any Environmental Law; (f) conforms with the covenants and representations herein;
(g) is subject to Agent s duly perfected, first priority Lien, and no other Lien; (h) is within the
continental United States or Canada and is not in transit except between locations of Borrowers,
other than Inventory in transit to the United States from vendors or suppliers (or from any
Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries) with respect to which Agent s first priority Lien
is duly perfected and otherwise protected to Agent s satisfaction in its sole discretion (which
shall include, without limitation, a fully executed Imported Goods Agreement with respect to such
Inventory in transit, satisfactory cargo insurance, a negotiable bill of lading naming Agent as the
consignee thereof, and any other requirements required by Agent in its sole discretion); (i) is not
subject to any warehouse receipt or negotiable Document and is not consigned to any Person; (j) is
owned solely by the applicable Borrower or such Borrower has good, valid and marketable title
thereto; (k) it is subject to a purchase order or other firm delivery contract (which may be an
oral agreement that is followed by a written contract in the ordinary course of business) under a
Program Sales Contract or other similar contract with Persons satisfactory to Agent (which approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld); and (l) is not located on leased premises or in the possession
of a warehouseman, processor, repairman, mechanic, shipper, freight forwarder or other Person,
unless the lessor or such Person has delivered a Lien Waiver or an appropriate Rent and Charges
Reserve has been established.

EMAK    EMAK Worldwide, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

EMI    Equity Marketing, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

Enforcement Action    any action to enforce any Obligations or Loan Documents or to
realize upon any Collateral (whether by judicial action, self-help, notification of Account
Debtors, exercise of setoff or recoupment, or otherwise).

Environmental Agreement    each agreement of Borrowers with respect to any Real Estate
subject to a Mortgage, pursuant to which Borrowers agree to indemnify and hold harmless Agent and
Lenders from liability under any Environmental Laws.

Environmental Laws    all Applicable Laws (including all programs, permits and guidance
promulgated by regulatory agencies), relating to public health (but excluding occupational safety
and health, to the extent regulated by OSHA) or the protection or pollution of the environment,
including CERCLA, RCRA and CWA.

Environmental Notice    a notice (whether written or oral) from any Governmental
Authority or other Person of any possible noncompliance with, investigation of a possible violation
of, litigation

-12-

relating to, or potential fine or liability under any Environmental Law, or with respect to
any Environmental Release, environmental pollution or hazardous materials, including any complaint,
summons, citation, order, claim, demand or request for correction, remediation or otherwise.

Environmental Release    a release as defined in CERCLA or under any other
Environmental Law.

Equipment    as defined in the UCC, including all machinery, apparatus, equipment,
fittings, furniture, fixtures, motor vehicles and other tangible personal Property (other than
Inventory), and all parts, accessories and special tools therefor, and accessions thereto.

Equity Interest    the interest of any (a) shareholder in a corporation, (b) partner in
a partnership (whether general, limited, limited liability or joint venture), (c) member in a
limited liability company, or (d) other Person having any other form of equity security or
ownership interest.

Equity Marketing    Equity Marketing Hong Kong, Ltd., a Delaware corporation.

ERISA    the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.

Event of Default    as defined in  Section 11.1 .

Excluded Tax    Tax on the overall net income or gross receipts of a Lender imposed by
the jurisdiction in which such Lender s principal executive office is located.

Existing Credit Agreement    the Credit Agreement dated as of April 21, 2001 among
EMAK, as borrower, Bank of America, as administrative agent, swingline lender and letter of credit
issuing lender and the other financial institutions party thereto, as amended, supplemented or
otherwise modified from time to time on or prior the date hereof.

Existing Letters of Credit    as defined in  Section 2.2.1(e) .

Extraordinary Expenses    all costs, expenses or advances that Agent may incur during a
Default or Event of Default, or during the pendency of an Insolvency Proceeding of an Obligor,
including those relating to (a) any audit, inspection, repossession, storage, repair, appraisal,
insurance, manufacture, preparation or advertising for sale, sale, collection, or other
preservation of or realization upon any Collateral; (b) any action, arbitration or other proceeding
(whether instituted by or against Agent, any Lender, any Obligor, any representative of creditors
of an Obligor or any other Person) in any way relating to any Collateral (including the validity,
perfection, priority or avoidability of Agent s Liens with respect to any Collateral), Loan
Documents or Obligations, including any lender liability or other Claims; (c) the exercise,
protection or enforcement of any rights or remedies of Agent in, or the monitoring of, any
Insolvency Proceeding; (d) settlement or satisfaction of any taxes, charges or Liens with respect
to any Collateral; (e) any Enforcement Action; (f) negotiation and documentation of any
modification, waiver, workout, restructuring or forbearance with respect to any Loan Documents or
Obligations; or (g) Protective Advances. Such costs, expenses and advances include transfer fees,
taxes, storage fees, insurance costs, permit fees, utility reservation and standby fees, legal
fees, appraisal fees, brokers  fees and commissions, auctioneers  fees and commissions,
accountants  fees, environmental study fees, wages and salaries paid to employees of any Obligor or
independent contractors in liquidating any Collateral, and travel expenses.

Fiscal Quarter    a fiscal quarter of any Fiscal Year, which ends on March 31, June 30,
September 30 and December 31 of each calendar year.

Fiscal Year    the fiscal year of Borrowers and Subsidiaries for accounting and tax
purposes, ending on December 31 of each year.

-13-

Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio    the ratio, determined on a consolidated basis for
Borrowers and Subsidiaries (other than EMAK Europe Holdings, Limited and its direct and indirect
Subsidiaries) for the most recent 12-month period, of (a) EBITDA, to (b) Fixed Charges.

Fixed Charges    for any period, the sum of cash interest expense paid or payable,
Capital Expenditures, principal payments made on Borrowed Money (other than repayments of principal
under this Agreement), net cash taxes paid or payable during such period (but in any event not less
than zero) and Restricted Payments made (excluding Restricted Payments made to the extent permitted
under  Section 10.2.  4(b)  and  (c) , it being understood that such exclusion shall not exclude from
Fixed Charges interest expense, Capital Expenditures, principal payments or taxes paid with such
Restricted Payments).

FLSA    the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.

Foreign Lender    any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other
than the laws of the United States, or any state or district thereof.

Foreign Plan    any employee benefit plan or arrangement maintained or contributed to
by any Obligor or Subsidiary that is not subject to the laws of the United States, or any employee
benefit plan or arrangement mandated by a government other than the United States for employees of
any Obligor or Subsidiary.

Foreign Security Agreement    each security agreement or similar instrument governed by
the laws of a country other than the United States, executed (i) on the Closing Date by EMAK,
Equity Marketing and certain UK Subsidiaries, and (ii) from time to time after the Closing Date in
accordance with  Section 10.1.9 , in each case in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to
Agent, as such Foreign Security Agreement may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from
time to time.

Foreign Subsidiary    a Subsidiary that is a  controlled foreign corporation  under
Section 957 of the Internal Revenue Code, such that a guaranty by such Subsidiary of the
Obligations or a Lien on the assets of such Subsidiary to secure the Obligations would result in
material tax liability to Borrowers.

Full Payment    with respect to any Obligations, (a) the full and indefeasible cash
payment thereof, including any interest, fees and other charges accruing during an Insolvency
Proceeding (whether or not allowed in the proceeding); (b) if such Obligations are LC Obligations
or inchoate or contingent in nature, Cash Collateralization thereof (or delivery of a standby
letter of credit acceptable to Agent in its discretion, in the amount of required Cash Collateral);
and (c) a release of any Claims of Obligors against Agent, Lenders and Issuing Bank arising on or
before the payment date. No Loans shall be deemed to have been paid in full until all Revolver
Commitments related to such Loans have expired or been terminated.

GAAP    generally accepted accounting principles in the United States in effect from
time to time.

General Intangibles    as defined in the UCC, including causes in action, causes of
action, company or other business records, inventions, blueprints, designs, patents, patent
applications, trademarks, trademark applications, trade names, trade secrets, service marks,
goodwill, brand names, copyrights, registrations, licenses, franchises, customer lists, permits,
tax refund claims, computer programs, operational manuals, internet addresses and domain names,
insurance refunds and premium rebates, all rights to indemnification, and all other intangible
Property of any kind.

Goods    as defined in the UCC.

Governmental Approvals    all authorizations, consents, approvals, licenses and
exemptions of, registrations and filings with, and required reports to, all Governmental
Authorities.

-14-

Governmental Authority    any federal, state, municipal, foreign or other governmental
department, agency, commission, board, bureau, court, tribunal, instrumentality, political
subdivision, or other entity or officer exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or
administrative functions for or pertaining to any government or court, in each case whether
associated with the United States, a state, district or territory thereof, or a foreign entity or
government.

Guarantor Payment    as defined in  Section 5.10.6 .

Guarantors    collectively, each Person who guarantees payment or performance of any
Obligations.

Guaranty    each guaranty agreement executed by a Guarantor in favor of Agent.

Hedging Agreement    an agreement relating to any swap, cap, floor, collar, option,
forward, cross right or obligation, or combination thereof or similar transaction, with respect to
interest rate, foreign exchange, currency, commodity, credit or equity risk.

HK Subsidiaries    collectively, EMAK Asia Holdings Company Limited, a Hong Kong
company, EMAK China Limited, a Hong Kong company, EMAK Hong Kong Limited, a Hong Kong company, and
any other Foreign Subsidiary organized under the laws of Hong Kong.

Imported Goods Agreement    an agreement among any Borrower, its customs broker and
Agent, substantially in the form of  Exhibit H  annexed hereto, with such changes hereto as may be
agreed to by Agent in its discretion.

Indemnitees    Agent Indemnitees, Lender Indemnitees, Issuing Bank Indemnitees and Bank
of America Indemnitees.

Insolvency Proceeding    any case or proceeding commenced by or against a Person under
any state, federal or foreign law for, or any agreement of such Person to, (a) the entry of an
order for relief under the Bankruptcy Code, or any other insolvency, debtor relief or debt
adjustment law; (b) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, liquidator, administrator, conservator
or other custodian for such Person or any part of its Property; or (c) an assignment or trust
mortgage for the benefit of creditors.

Instrument    as defined in the UCC.

Insurance Assignment    each collateral assignment of insurance pursuant to which an
Obligor assigns to Agent, for the benefit of Secured Parties, such Obligor s rights under key-man
life, business interruption or other insurance policies as Agent deems appropriate, as security for
the Obligations.

Intellectual Property    all intellectual and similar Property of a Person, including
inventions, designs, patents, patent applications, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade
names, trade secrets, confidential or proprietary information, customer lists, know-how, software
and databases; all embodiments or fixations thereof and all related documentation, registrations
and franchises; all books and records describing or used in connection with the foregoing; and all
licenses or other rights to use any of the foregoing.

Intellectual Property Claim    any claim or assertion (whether in writing, by suit or
otherwise) that a Borrower s or Subsidiary s ownership, use, marketing, sale or distribution of any
Inventory, Equipment, Intellectual Property or other Property violates another Person s
Intellectual Property.

Interest Period    as defined in  Section 3.1.3 .

-15-

Inventory    as defined in the UCC, including all goods intended for sale, lease,
display or demonstration; all work in process; and all raw materials, and other materials and
supplies of any kind that are or could be used in connection with the manufacture, printing,
packing, shipping, advertising, sale, lease or furnishing of such goods, or otherwise used or
consumed in a Borrower s business (but excluding Equipment).

Inventory Borrowing Period    up to three 30-day periods during Fiscal Year 2006 as
determined by Borrower Agent in its discretion by written notice to Agent not less than ten
Business Days prior to the commencement of such period; provided however that no Inventory
Borrowing Period shall commence until Agent shall have completed a field examination with respect
to the Inventory of Borrowers in form and substance satisfactory to Agent.

Inventory Borrowing Portion    as defined in the definition of  Applicable Margin. 

Inventory Formula Amount    the lesser of (a) $1,500,000; or (b) 15% of the Value of
Eligible Inventory.

Inventory Reserve    reserves established by Agent to reflect factors that may
negatively impact the Value of Inventory, including change in salability, obsolescence,
seasonality, theft, shrinkage, imbalance, change in composition or mix, markdowns and vendor
chargebacks.

Investment    any acquisition of all or substantially all assets of a Person; any
acquisition of record or beneficial ownership of any Equity Interests of a Person or any
significant portion of the assets of a Person or of any business or division of a Person; or any
advance or capital contribution to or other investment in a Person.

Investment Property    as defined in the UCC.

Issuing Bank    Bank of America or an Affiliate of Bank of America.

Issuing Bank Indemnitees    Issuing Bank and its officers, directors, employees,
Affiliates, agents and attorneys.

Johnson    Johnson Grossfield, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

Kellogg    Kellogg Company and its Affiliates.

LC Application    an application by Borrower Agent to Issuing Bank for issuance of a
Letter of Credit, in form and substance satisfactory to Issuing Bank.

LC Conditions    the following conditions necessary for issuance of a Letter of Credit:
(a) each of the conditions set forth in  Section 6 ; (b) after giving effect to such issuance, total
LC Obligations do not exceed the Letter of Credit Subline, no Overadvance exists and, if no
Revolver Loans are outstanding, the LC Obligations do not exceed the Borrowing Base (without giving
effect to the LC Reserve for purposes of this calculation); (c) the expiration date of such Letter
of Credit is (i) no more than 365 days from issuance, in the case of standby Letters of Credit,
(ii) no more than 120 days from issuance, in the case of documentary Letters of Credit, and (iii)
at least 20 Business Days prior to the Revolver Termination Date; (d) the Letter of Credit and
payments thereunder are denominated in Dollars; and (e) the form of the proposed Letter of Credit
is satisfactory to Agent and Issuing Bank in their discretion.

LC Documents    all documents, instruments and agreements (including LC Requests and LC
Applications) delivered by Borrowers or any other Person to Issuing Bank or Agent in connection
with issuance, amendment or renewal of, or payment under, any Letter of Credit.

-16-

LC Obligations    the sum (without duplication) of (a) all amounts owing by Borrowers
for any drawings under Letters of Credit; (b) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding
Letters of Credit; and (c) all fees and other amounts owing with respect to Letters of Credit.

LC Request    a request for issuance of a Letter of Credit, to be provided by Borrower
Agent to Issuing Bank, in form satisfactory to Agent and Issuing Bank.

LC Reserve    the aggregate of all LC Obligations, other than (a) those that have been
Cash Collateralized, and (b) if no Default or Event of Default exists, those constituting charges
owing to the Issuing Bank.

Lender Indemnitees    Lenders and their officers, directors, employees, Affiliates,
agents and attorneys.

Lenders    as defined in the preamble to this Agreement, including Agent in its
capacity as a provider of Swingline Loans and any other Person who hereafter becomes a  Lender 
pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance.

Letter of Credit    any standby or documentary letter of credit issued by Issuing Bank
for the account of a Borrower, or any indemnity, guarantee, exposure transmittal memorandum or
similar form of credit support issued by Agent or Issuing Bank for the benefit of a Borrower and
the Existing Letters of Credit.

Letter-of-Credit Right    as defined in the UCC.

Letter of Credit Subline    $10,000,000.

LIBOR Loan    each set of LIBOR Revolver Loans having a common length and commencement
of Interest Period.

LIBOR Revolver Loan    a Revolver Loan that bears interest based on Adjusted LIBOR.

License    any license or agreement under which an Obligor is authorized to use
Intellectual Property in connection with any manufacture, marketing, distribution or disposition of
Collateral, any use of Property or any other conduct of its business.

License Agreements    each of the license agreements listed on  Schedule 1.1B  annexed
hereto, as such agreements are in effect on the Closing Date and as such agreements may be amended
from time to time thereafter to the extent permitted under  Section 10.2.21  of this Agreement.

Licensor    any Person from whom an Obligor obtains the right to use any Intellectual
Property.

Lien    any Person s interest in Property securing an obligation owed to, or a claim
by, such Person, whether such interest is based on common law, statute or contract, including
liens, security interests, pledges, hypothecations, statutory trusts, reservations, exceptions,
encroachments, easements, rights-of-way, covenants, conditions, restrictions, leases, and other
title exceptions and encumbrances affecting Property.

Lien Waiver    an agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent, by which (a)
for any material Collateral located on leased premises, the lessor waives or subordinates any Lien
it may have on the Collateral, and agrees to permit Agent to enter upon the premises and remove the
Collateral or to use the premises to store or dispose of the Collateral (including, without
limitation Collateral Access Agreements); (b) for any Collateral held by a warehouseman, processor,
shipper or freight forwarder, such Person waives or subordinates any Lien it may have on the
Collateral, agrees to hold any Documents

-17-

in its possession relating to the Collateral as agent for Agent, and agrees to deliver the
Collateral to Agent upon request; (c) for any Collateral held by a repairman, mechanic or bailee,
such Person acknowledges Agent s Lien, waives or subordinates any Lien it may have on the
Collateral, and agrees to deliver the Collateral to Agent upon request; and (d) for any Collateral
subject to a Licensor s Intellectual Property rights, the Licensor grants to Agent the right,
vis- -vis such Licensor, to enforce Agent s Liens with respect to the Collateral, including the
right to dispose of it with the benefit of the Intellectual Property, whether or not a default
exists under any applicable License.

Loan    any advance made by any Lender to Borrowers as provided in  Section 2.1 
(collectively, the   Loans  ), and may be a Base Rate Revolver Loan or an LIBOR Loan, and
includes any Revolver Loan.

Loan Account    the loan account established by each Lender on its books pursuant to
 Section 5.7.1 .

Loan Documents    this Agreement, Other Agreements and Security Documents.

Loan Year    each calendar year commencing on the Closing Date and on each anniversary
of the Closing Date.

Logistix    Logistix, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

Margin Stock    as defined in Regulation U of the Board of Governors.

Material Adverse Effect    the effect of any event or circumstance that, taken alone or
in conjunction with other events or circumstances, (a) has or could be reasonably expected to have
a material adverse effect on the business, operations, Properties, prospects or condition
(financial or otherwise) of EMI or Borrowers taken as a whole, on the value of any material
Collateral, on the enforceability of any Loan Documents, or on the validity or priority of Agent s
Liens on any Collateral; (b) impairs the ability of any Obligor to perform any obligations under
the Loan Documents, including repayment of any Obligations; or (c) otherwise impairs the ability of
Agent or any Lender to enforce or collect any Obligations or to realize upon any Collateral.

Material Contract    any agreement or arrangement to which a Borrower or Subsidiary is
party (other than the Loan Documents) (a) that is a Related Document, (b) for which breach,
termination, nonperformance or failure to renew could reasonably be expected to have a Material
Adverse Effect, or (c) that relates to Subordinated Debt, or Debt in an aggregate amount of
$1,000,000 or more.

MBC    Miller Brewing Company and its Affiliates.

Moody s    Moody s Investors Service, Inc., and its successors.

Mortgage   each mortgage, deed of trust or deed to secure debt pursuant to which a Borrower
grants to Agent, for the benefit of Secured Parties, Liens upon the Real Estate owned by such
Borrower, as security for the Obligations.

Multiemployer Plan    any employee benefit plan or arrangement described in Section
4001(a)(3) of ERISA that is maintained or contributed to by any Obligor or Subsidiary.

Net Proceeds    with respect to an Asset Disposition, proceeds (including, when
received, any deferred or escrowed payments) received by a Borrower or Subsidiary in cash from such
disposition, net of (a) reasonable and customary costs and expenses actually incurred in connection
therewith, including legal fees and sales commissions; (b) amounts applied to repayment of Debt
secured by a Permitted Lien

-18-

senior to Agent s Liens on Collateral sold; (c) transfer or similar taxes; and (d) reserves
for indemnities, until such reserves are no longer needed.

Negative Pledge    a Contractual Obligation that restricts Liens on Property.

Non-Offset Letter    any letter or any similar acknowledgement agreement of any Account
Debtor of any Borrower, substantially in the form of  Exhibit G  annexed hereto, with such changes
thereto as may be agreed to by Agent in its discretion.

Notice of Borrowing    a Notice of Borrowing to be provided by Borrower Agent to
request the funding of a Borrowing of Revolver Loans, in form satisfactory to Agent.

Notice of Conversion/Continuation    a Notice of Conversion/Continuation to be provided
by Borrower Agent to request a conversion or continuation of any Loans as LIBOR Loans, in form
satisfactory to Agent.

Obligations    all (a) principal of and premium, if any, on the Loans, (b) LC
Obligations and other obligations of Obligors with respect to Letters of Credit, (c) interest,
expenses, fees and other sums payable by Obligors under Loan Documents, (d) obligations of Obligors
under any indemnity for Claims, (e) Extraordinary Expenses, (f) Bank Product Debt, and (g) other
Debts, obligations and liabilities of any kind owing by Obligors pursuant to the Loan Documents,
whether now existing or hereafter arising, whether evidenced by a note or other writing, whether
allowed in any Insolvency Proceeding, whether arising from an extension of credit, issuance of a
letter of credit, acceptance, loan, guaranty, indemnification or otherwise, and whether direct or
indirect, absolute or contingent, due or to become due, primary or secondary, or joint or several.

Obligor    each Borrower, Guarantor, or other Person that is liable for payment of any
Obligations or that has granted a Lien in favor of Agent on its assets to secure any Obligations.

Ordinary Course of Business    the ordinary course of business of any Borrower or
Subsidiary, consistent with past practices and undertaken in good faith.

Organic Documents    with respect to any Person, its charter, certificate or articles
of incorporation, bylaws, articles of organization, limited liability agreement, operating
agreement, members agreement, shareholders agreement, partnership agreement, certificate of
partnership, certificate of formation, voting trust agreement, or similar agreement or instrument
governing the formation or operation of such Person.

OSHA    the Occupational Safety and Hazard Act of 1970.

Other Agreement    each Note; LC Document; Lien Waiver; Real Estate Related Document;
Collateral Access Agreement; Borrowing Base Certificate, Compliance Certificate, financial
statement or report delivered hereunder; or other document, instrument or agreement (other than
this Agreement or a Security Document) now or hereafter delivered by an Obligor or other Person to
Agent or a Lender in connection with any transactions relating hereto.

Other Customer Agreements    (i) that certain Promotional Services and Materials
Agreement dated as of March 1, 2005 between P G and Upshot, Inc., (ii) that certain Consultant
Services Agreement dated as of April 1, 2003 between Disney Vacation Development, Inc. and Equity
Marketing, Inc., (iii) that certain Master Promotional Services Agreement dated as of April 1, 2005
between Miller Products Company and Upshot, Inc., (iv) that certain Premium Supply Agreement dated
as of March 14, 2006 among Kellogg North America Company, Kellogg Canada, Inc. and Logistix, Inc.,
(v) that certain Promotional Services Agreement dated as of April 1, 2005 among Foster s USA, LLC
and Upshot, Inc., (vi) that certain Premium Supplier Agreement dated as of January 1, 2005 among
Kraft Foods Global,

-19-

Inc. (North America Commercial) and SCI and (vii) any other services or supply agreements
entered into from time to time between Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and any of its
customers, in each case as such agreement is in effect on the Closing Date (in the case of clauses
(i) through (vi)) and as such agreement may be amended from time to time thereafter to the extent
permitted under  Section 10.2.21 .

Overadvance    as defined in  Section 2.1.5 .

Overadvance Loan    a Base Rate Revolver Loan made when an Overadvance exists or is
caused by the funding thereof.

P G    The Proctor   Gamble Company and its Affiliates.

Participant    as defined in  Section 13.2 .

Patent Assignment    each patent collateral assignment agreement pursuant to which an
Obligor assigns to Agent, for the benefit of Secured Parties, such Obligor s interests in its
patents, as security for the Obligations.

Patriot Act    the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools
Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. No. 107-56, 115 Stat. 272 (2001).

Payment Intangible    as defined in the UCC.

Payment Item    each check, draft or other item of payment payable to a Borrower,
including those constituting proceeds of any Collateral.

Permitted Asset Disposition    as long as no Default or Event of Default exists and all
Net Proceeds are remitted to the Dominion Account, an Asset Disposition that is (a) a sale of
Inventory in the Ordinary Course of Business; (b) a disposition of Equipment that, in the aggregate
during any 12 month period, has a fair market or book value (whichever is more) of $250,000 or
less; (c) a disposition of Inventory that is obsolete, unmerchantable or otherwise unsalable in the
Ordinary Course of Business; (d) termination of a lease of real or personal Property that is not
necessary for the Ordinary Course of Business, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material
Adverse Effect and does not result from an Obligor s default; or (e) approved in writing by Agent
and Required Lenders.

Permitted Contingent Obligations    Contingent Obligations (a) arising from
endorsements of Payment Items for collection or deposit in the Ordinary Course of Business; (b)
arising from Hedging Agreements permitted hereunder; (c) existing on the Closing Date, and any
extension or renewal thereof that does not increase the amount of such Contingent Obligation when
extended or renewed; (d) incurred in the Ordinary Course of Business with respect to surety, appeal
or performance bonds, or other similar obligations; (e) arising from customary indemnification
obligations in favor of purchasers in connection with dispositions of Equipment permitted
hereunder; (f) arising under the Loan Documents; or (g) in an aggregate amount of $250,000 or less
at any time.

Permitted Lien    as defined in  Section 10.2.2 .

Permitted Purchase Money Debt    Purchase Money Debt of Borrowers and Subsidiaries that
is unsecured or secured only by a Purchase Money Lien, as long as the aggregate amount does not
exceed $1,000,000 at any time and its incurrence does not violate  Section 10.2.3 .

Person    any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint
venture, joint stock company, land trust, business trust, unincorporated organization, Governmental
Authority or other entity.

-20-

Plan    an employee pension benefit plan that is covered by Title IV of ERISA or
subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code and that is
either (a) maintained by a Borrower or Subsidiary for employees or (b) maintained pursuant to a
collective bargaining agreement, or other arrangement under which more than one employer makes
contributions and to which a Borrower or Subsidiary is making or accruing an obligation to make
contributions or has within the preceding five years made or accrued such contributions.

Pledged Collateral    means the  Pledged Collateral  as defined in the Domestic Pledge
Agreement or any Foreign Security Agreement.

Pop Rocket    Pop Rocket, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

Preferred Stock    the Series AA Preferred Stock.

Pro Rata    with respect to any Lender, a percentage (expressed as a decimal, rounded
to the ninth decimal place) determined (a) while Revolver Commitments are outstanding, by dividing
the amount of such Lender s Revolver Commitment by the aggregate amount of all Revolver
Commitments; and (b) at any other time, by dividing the amount of such Lender s Loans and LC
Obligations by the aggregate amount of all outstanding Loans and LC Obligations.

Prodesign     as defined in  Section 10.1.16 .

Program Sales    the promotional programs for BK or RSI, and any Affiliates thereof,
which are serviced by Borrowers or Subsidiaries.

Program Sales Contract    any contract or other arrangement relating to Program Sales
between BK or RSI, or any Affiliates thereof, and any Borrowers or Subsidiaries.

Properly Contested    with respect to any obligation of an Obligor, (a) the obligation
is subject to a bona fide dispute regarding amount or the Obligor s liability to pay; (b) the
obligation is being properly contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings promptly instituted
and diligently pursued; (c) appropriate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP; (d)
non-payment could not have a Material Adverse Effect, nor result in forfeiture or sale of any
assets of the Obligor; (e) no Lien is imposed on assets of the Obligor, unless bonded and stayed to
the satisfaction of Agent; and (f) if the obligation results from entry of a judgment or other
order, such judgment or order is stayed pending appeal or other judicial review.

Property    any interest in any kind of property or asset, whether real, personal or
mixed, or tangible or intangible.

Protective Advances    as defined in  Section 2.1.6 .

PTO    the United States Patent and Trademark Office or any successor or substitute
office in the United States in which filings are necessary or, in the opinion of Agent, desirable
in order to create or perfect Liens on any Intellectual Property Collateral.

Purchase Money Debt    (a) Debt (other than the Obligations) for payment of any of the
purchase price of fixed assets; (b) Debt (other than the Obligations) incurred within ten days
before or after acquisition of any fixed assets, for the purpose of financing any of the purchase
price thereof; and (c) any renewals, extensions or refinancings (but not increases) thereof.

Purchase Money Lien    a Lien that secures Purchase Money Debt, encumbering only the
fixed assets acquired with such Debt and constituting a Capital Lease or a purchase money security
interest under the UCC.

-21-

RCRA    the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C.    6991-6991i).

Real Estate    all right, title and interest (whether as owner, lessor or lessee) in
any real Property or any buildings, structures, parking areas or other improvements thereon.

Refinancing Conditions    the following conditions for Refinancing Debt: (a) it is in
an aggregate principal amount that does not exceed the principal amount of the Debt being extended,
renewed or refinanced; (b) it has a final maturity no sooner than, a weighted average life no less
than, and an interest rate no greater than, the Debt being extended, renewed or refinanced; (c) it
is subordinated to the Obligations at least to the same extent as the Debt being extended, renewed
or refinanced; (d) the representations, covenants and defaults applicable to it are no less
favorable to Borrowers than those applicable to the Debt being extended, renewed or refinanced; (e)
no additional Lien is granted to secure it; (f) no additional Person is obligated on such Debt; and
(g) upon giving effect to it, no Default or Event of Default exists.

Refinancing Debt    Borrowed Money that is the result of an extension, renewal or
refinancing of Debt permitted under  Section 10.2.1(d) .

Registration Rights Agreement  -   that certain Registration Rights Agreement
dated as of March 29, 2000 by and between EMAK and Crown, as such agreement is in effect on the
Closing Date and as such agreement may be amended from time to time thereafter to the extent
permitted under  Section 10.2.21  of this Agreement.

Reimbursement Date    as defined in  Section 2.2.2 .

Related Documents    the Securities Purchase Agreement, the Warrants, the Registration
Rights Agreement, the Certificate of Designation, the BK Services Agreements, the BK Supply
Agreements, the Other Customer Agreements, any other BK Agreements, and the RSI Supply Agreements.

Related Real Estate Documents    with respect to any Real Estate subject to a Mortgage,
the following, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent and received by Agent for review at
least 15 days prior to the effective date of the Mortgage: (a) a mortgagee title policy (or binder
therefor) covering Agent s interest under the Mortgage, in a form and amount and by an insurer
acceptable to Agent, which must be fully paid on such effective date; (b) such assignments of
leases, estoppel letters, attornment agreements, consents, waivers and releases as Agent may
require with respect to other Persons having an interest in the Real Estate; (c) a current,
as-built survey of the Real Estate, containing a metes-and-bounds property description and flood
plain certification, and certified by a licensed surveyor acceptable to Agent; (d) flood insurance
in an amount, with endorsements and by an insurer acceptable to Agent, if the Real Estate is within
a flood plain; (e) a current appraisal of the Real Estate, prepared by an appraiser acceptable to
Agent, and in form and substance satisfactory to Required Lenders; (f) an environmental assessment,
prepared by environmental engineers acceptable to Agent, and accompanied by such reports,
certificates, studies or data as Agent may reasonably require, which shall all be in form and
substance satisfactory to Required Lenders; and (g) an Environmental Agreement and such other
documents, instruments or agreements as Agent may reasonably require with respect to any
environmental risks regarding the Real Estate.

Rent and Charges Reserve    the aggregate of (a) all past due rent and other amounts
owing by an Obligor to any landlord, warehouseman, processor, repairman, mechanic, shipper, freight
forwarder or other Person who possesses any Collateral or could assert a Lien on any Collateral;
and (b) a reserve at least equal to three months rent and other charges that could be payable to
any such Person less the amount of any L/C Obligations securing such obligations, unless it has
executed a Lien Waiver.

Report    as defined in  Section 12.2.3 .

-22-

Reportable Event    any event set forth in Section 4043(b) of ERISA.

Required Lenders    Lenders (subject to  Section 4.2 ) having (a) Revolver Commitments in
excess of 66 2/3% of the aggregate Revolver Commitments; and (b) if the Revolver Commitments have
terminated, Loans in excess of 66 2/3% of all outstanding Loans.

Reserve Percentage    the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, rounded upward to
the nearest 1/8th of 1%) applicable to member banks under regulations issued from time to time by
the Board of Governors for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency,
supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurocurrency funding (currently
referred to as   Eurocurrency Liabilities  ).

Restricted Investment    any Investment by a Borrower or Subsidiary, other than (a)
Investments in Subsidiaries to the extent existing on the Closing Date; (b) Cash Equivalents that
are subject to Agent s Lien and control, pursuant to documentation in form and substance
satisfactory to Agent; and (c) loans and advances permitted under  Section 10.2.7 .

Restricted Payment    (a) the declaration or payment of any dividend or distribution by
a Borrower or Subsidiary, either in cash or property, on any shares of the capital stock of any
class or any other Equity Interests of such Borrower or Subsidiary (other than dividends or other
distributions payable solely in shares of capital stock of a Borrower or Subsidiary or payable by a
Subsidiary to a Borrower); (b) the purchase, redemption or retirement by a Borrower or Subsidiary
of any shares of its capital stock of any class or any warrants, rights or options to purchase or
acquire any shares of its capital stock or any other Equity Interests, whether directly or
indirectly; (c) any other payment or distribution by a Borrower or Subsidiary in respect of its
capital stock, either directly or indirectly (other than dividends or other distributions payable
solely in shares of capital stock or any other Equity Interests of a Borrower or Subsidiary or
payable by a Subsidiary to a Borrower); (d) any prepayment, repayment, redemption, defeasance or
other acquisition or retirement for value (i) of any Debt to a holder of Equity Interests or (ii)
of Subordinated Debt; and (e) any payment of cash by any Borrower to any HK Subsidiary, any UK
Subsidiary or any other Foreign Subsidiary.

Restrictive Agreement    an agreement (other than a Loan Document) that conditions or
restricts the right of any Borrower, Subsidiary or other Obligor to incur or repay Borrowed Money,
to grant Liens on any assets, to declare or make Restricted Payments, to modify, extend or renew
any agreement evidencing Borrowed Money, or to repay any intercompany Debt.

Revolver Commitment    for any Lender, its obligation to make Revolver Loans and to
participate in the LC Obligations up to the maximum principal amount shown on  Schedule 1.1A , or as
specified hereafter in the most recent Assignment and Acceptance to which it is a party.
  Revolver Commitments   means the aggregate amount of such commitments of all Lenders.

Revolver Loan    a loan made pursuant to  Section 2.1 , and any Swingline Loan,
Overadvance Loan or Protective Advance.

Revolver Note    a promissory note to be executed by Borrowers in favor of a Lender in
the form of  Exhibit A , which shall be in the amount of such Lender s Revolver Commitment and shall
evidence the Revolver Loans made by such Lender.

Revolver Termination Date    March 29, 2009.

Royalties    all royalties, fees, expense reimbursement and other amounts payable by a
Borrower under a License.

RSI    Restaurant Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

-23-

RSI Supply Agreements    (i) that certain Fifth Amended and First Restated Master
Supply Agreement, dated as of May 15, 2002, by and between RSI and EMAK, and (ii) any other supply
agreements entered into from time to time between RSI or any of its Affiliates and any Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries, in each case as such agreement is in effect on the Closing Date (in the
case of clause (i)) and as such agreement may be amended from time to time thereafter to the extent
permitted under  Section 10.2.2 .

SCI    SCI Promotion, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

S P    Standard   Poor s Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies,
Inc., and its successors.

Secured Parties    Agent, Issuing Bank, Lenders and providers of Bank Products.

Securities Account    as defined in the UCC.

Securities Account Control Agreement    each securities account control agreement
executed and delivered by an Obligor, Agent and a securities intermediary, in form and substance
satisfactory to Agent, covering each of the Securities Accounts established with such securities
intermediary, as such Securities Account Control Agreement may be amended, supplemented or
otherwise modified from time to time, and   Securities Account Control Agreements   means all
such Securities Account Control Agreements, collectively.

Securities Purchase Agreement    that certain Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of
March 29, 2000 by and between Crown and EMAK, as amended (i) by that certain Amendment No. 1 to
Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of May 5, 2000 by and between Crown and EMAK, (ii) by that
certain Amendment No. 2 to Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of June 1, 2000 by and between
Crown and EMAK, and (iii) may be amended from to time to time to the extent permitted under  Section
10.2.21  of this Agreement.

Security Documents    the Domestic Pledge Agreement, Foreign Security Agreements,
Guaranties, Mortgages, Patent Assignments, Trademark Security Agreements, Insurance Assignments,
Deposit Account Control Agreements, Securities Account Control Agreements, and all other documents,
instruments and agreements now or hereafter securing (or given with the intent to secure) any
Obligations.

Senior Officer    the chairman of the board, president, chief executive officer or
chief financial officer (or vice president-finance or vice president-controller) or executive vice
president of a Borrower or, if the context requires, an Obligor.

Series AA Preferred Stock    the Series AA Senior Cumulative Participating Convertible
Preferred Stock of EMAK, par value $0.001 per share.

Settlement Report    a report delivered by Agent to Lenders summarizing the Revolver
Loans and participations in LC Obligations outstanding as of a given settlement date, allocated to
Lenders on a Pro Rata basis in accordance with their Revolver Commitments.

Software    as defined in the UCC.

Solvent    as to any Person, such Person (a) owns Property whose fair salable value is
greater than the amount required to pay all of its debts (including contingent, subordinated,
unmatured and unliquidated liabilities); (b) owns Property whose present fair salable value (as
defined below) is greater than the probable total liabilities (including contingent, subordinated,
unmatured and unliquidated liabilities) of such Person as they become absolute and matured; (c) is
able to pay all of its debts as they

-24-

mature; (d) has capital that is not unreasonably small for its business and is sufficient to
carry on its business and transactions and all business and transactions in which it is about to
engage; (e) is not  insolvent  within the meaning of Section 101(32) of the Bankruptcy Code; and
(f) has not incurred (by way of assumption or otherwise) any obligations or liabilities (contingent
or otherwise) under any Loan Documents, or made any conveyance in connection therewith, with actual
intent to hinder, delay or defraud either present or future creditors of such Person or any of its
Affiliates.   Fair salable value   means the amount that could be obtained for assets within
a reasonable time, either through collection or through sale under ordinary selling conditions by a
capable and diligent seller to an interested buyer who is willing (but under no compulsion) to
purchase.

Statutory Reserves    the percentage (expressed as a decimal) established by the Board
of Governors as the then stated maximum rate for all reserves (including those imposed by
Regulation D of the Board of Governors, all basic, emergency, supplemental or other marginal
reserve requirements, and any transitional adjustments or other scheduled changes in reserve
requirements) applicable to any member bank of the Federal Reserve System in respect of
Eurocurrency Liabilities (or any successor category of liabilities under Regulation D).

Subordinated Debt    Debt incurred by a Borrower that is expressly subordinate and
junior in right of payment to Full Payment of all Obligations, and is on terms (including maturity,
interest, fees, repayment, covenants and subordination) satisfactory to Agent.

Subsidiary    any entity at least 50% of whose voting securities or Equity Interests is
owned by a Borrower or any combination of Borrowers (including indirect ownership by a Borrower
through other entities in which the Borrower directly or indirectly owns 50% of the voting
securities or Equity Interests).

Supporting Obligation    as defined in the UCC.

Supply Chain    Supply Chain Services LLC and its Affiliates.

Swingline Loan    any Borrowing of Base Rate Revolver Loans funded with Agent s funds,
until such Borrowing is settled among Lenders pursuant to  Section 4.1.3 .

Sunoco    Sunoco, Inc. and its Affiliates.

Target    Target Corporation and its Affiliates.

Taxes    any taxes, levies, imposts, duties, fees, assessments, deductions,
withholdings or other charges of whatever nature, including income, receipts, excise, property,
sales, use, transfer, license, payroll, withholding, social security, franchise, intangibles, stamp
or recording taxes imposed by any Governmental Authority, and all interest, penalties and similar
liabilities relating thereto.

Threshold Amount    $500,000.

Trademark Security Agreement    each trademark security agreement pursuant to which an
Obligor grants to Agent, for the benefit of Secured Parties, a Lien on such Obligor s interests in
trademarks, as security for the Obligations.

Transferee    any actual or potential Eligible Assignee, Participant or other Person
acquiring an interest in any Obligations.

Type    any type of a Revolver Loan (i.e., Base Rate Revolver Loan or LIBOR Loan) that
has the same interest option and, in the case of LIBOR Loans, the same Interest Period.

-25-

UCC    the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of California or, when the
laws of any other jurisdiction govern the perfection or enforcement of any Lien, the Uniform
Commercial Code of such jurisdiction.

UK Subsidiaries    EMAK Europe Holdings, Limited, a United Kingdom company and any
other Foreign Subsidiary organized under the laws of United Kingdom or Northern Ireland.

Upshot    Upshot, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

Value    (a) for Inventory, its value determined on the basis of the lower of cost or
market, calculated on a first-in, first-out basis; and (b) for an Account, its face amount, net of
any returns, rebates, discounts (calculated on the shortest terms), credits, allowances or Taxes
(including sales, excise or other taxes) that have been or could be claimed by the Account Debtor
or any other Person.

Warrants    the Common Warrants.

1.2    Accounting Terms  . Under the Loan Documents (except as otherwise specified
herein), all accounting terms shall be interpreted, all accounting determinations shall be made,
and all financial statements shall be prepared, in accordance with GAAP applied on a basis
consistent with the most recent audited financial statements of Borrowers delivered to Agent before
the Closing Date and using the same inventory valuation method as used in such financial
statements, except for any change required or permitted by GAAP if Borrowers  certified public
accountants concur in such change, the change is disclosed to Agent, and  Section 10.3  is amended in
a manner satisfactory to Required Lenders to take into account the effects of the change.
Notwithstanding the foregoing and any other provision of this Agreement, the financial covenants
set forth in  Section 10.3  shall be calculated with respect to Borrowers and their Subsidiaries
(other than EMAK Europe Holdings, Limited and its direct and indirect Subsidiaries) on a
consolidated basis.

1.3    Certain Matters of Construction  . The terms  herein,   hereof,   hereunder  and
other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular section,
paragraph or subdivision. Any pronoun used shall be deemed to cover all genders. In the
computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date,  from  means  from
and including,  and  to  and  until  each mean  to but excluding.  The terms  including  and
 include  shall mean  including, without limitation  and, for purposes of each Loan Document, the
parties agree that the rule of  ejusdem generis  shall not be applicable to limit any provision.
Section titles appear as a matter of convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of
any Loan Document. All references to (a) laws or statutes include all related rules, regulations,
interpretations, amendments and successor provisions; (b) any document, instrument or agreement
include any amendments, waivers and other modifications, extensions or renewals (to the extent
permitted by the Loan Documents); (c) any section mean, unless the context otherwise requires, a
section of this Agreement; (d) any exhibits or schedules mean, unless the context otherwise
requires, exhibits and schedules attached hereto, which are hereby incorporated by reference; (e)
any Person include successors and assigns; (f) time of day mean time of day at Agent s notice
address under  Section 14.3.1 ; or (g) discretion of Agent, Issuing Bank or any Lender mean the sole
and absolute discretion of such Person. All calculations of Value, fundings of Loans, issuances of
Letters of Credit and payments of Obligations shall be in Dollars and, unless the context otherwise
requires, all determinations (including calculations of Borrowing Base and financial covenants)
made from time to time under the Loan Documents shall be made in light of the circumstances
existing at such time. Borrowing Base calculations shall be consistent with historical methods of
valuation and calculation, and otherwise satisfactory to Agent (and not necessarily calculated in
accordance with GAAP). Borrowers shall have the burden of establishing any alleged negligence,
misconduct or lack of good faith by Agent, Issuing Bank or any Lender under any Loan Documents. No
provision of any Loan Documents shall be construed against any party by reason of such party
having, or being deemed to have, drafted the provision. Whenever the phrase  to the best of
Borrowers  knowledge  or words of similar import are

-26-

used in any Loan Documents, it means actual knowledge of a Senior Officer, or knowledge that a
Senior Officer would have obtained if he or she had engaged in good faith and diligent performance
of his or her duties, including reasonably specific inquiries of employees or agents and a good
faith attempt to ascertain the matter to which such phrase relates.

SECTION 2. CREDIT FACILITIES 

2.1    Revolver Commitment . 

2.1.1  Revolver Loans . Each Lender agrees, severally on a Pro Rata basis up to its
Revolver Commitment, on the terms set forth herein, to make Revolver Loans to Borrowers from time
to time through the Commitment Termination Date. The Revolver Loans may be repaid and reborrowed
as provided herein. In no event shall Lenders have any obligation to honor a request for a
Revolver Loan if the unpaid balance of Revolver Loans outstanding at such time (including the
requested Revolver Loan) would exceed the Borrowing Base.

2.1.2  Revolver Notes . The Revolver Loans made by each Lender and interest accruing
thereon shall be evidenced by the records of Agent and such Lender. At the request of any Lender,
Borrowers shall deliver a Revolver Note to such Lender.

2.1.3  Use of Proceeds . The proceeds of Revolver Loans shall be used by Borrowers
solely (a) to satisfy existing Debt; (b) to pay fees and transaction expenses associated with the
closing of this credit facility; (c) to pay Obligations in accordance with this Agreement; and (d)
for working capital and other lawful corporate purposes of Borrowers.

2.1.4  Voluntary Reduction or Termination of Revolver Commitments .

(a) The Revolver Commitments shall terminate on the Revolver Termination Date, unless sooner
terminated in accordance with this Agreement. Upon at least 90 days prior written notice to Agent
at any time after the first Loan Year, Borrowers may, at their option, terminate the Revolver
Commitments and this credit facility. Any notice of termination given by Borrowers shall be
irrevocable. On the termination date, Borrowers shall make Full Payment of all Obligations.

(b) Borrowers may permanently reduce the Revolver Commitments, on a Pro Rata basis for each
Lender, from time to time upon written notice to Agent, which notice shall specify the amount of
the reduction, shall be irrevocable once given, shall be given at least five Business Days prior to
the end of a month and shall be effective as of the first day of the next month. Each reduction
shall be in a minimum amount of $1,000,000, or an increment of $1,000,000 in excess thereof;
 provided ,  however , that Borrowers may not permanently reduce the Revolver
Commitments below $20,000,000.

2.1.5  Overadvances . If the aggregate Revolver Loans exceed the Borrowing Base
(  Overadvance  ) or the aggregate Revolver Commitments at any time, the excess amount shall
be payable by Borrowers  on demand  by Agent, but all such Revolver Loans shall nevertheless
constitute Obligations secured by the Collateral and entitled to all benefits of the Loan
Documents. Unless its authority has been revoked in writing by Required Lenders, Agent may require
Lenders to honor requests for Overadvance Loans and to forbear from requiring Borrowers to cure an
Overadvance, (a) when no other Event of Default is known to Agent, as long as (i) the Overadvance
does not continue for more than 30 consecutive days (and no Overadvance may exist for at least five
consecutive days thereafter before further Overadvance Loans are required), and (ii) the
Overadvance is not known by Agent to exceed $2,000,000; and (b) regardless of whether an Event of
Default exists, if Agent discovers an Overadvance not previously known by it to exist, as long as
from the date of such discovery the Overadvance (i) is not increased by more than $2,000,000
(including such discovered Overadvance), and (ii) does not continue for more than 30 consecutive
days. In no event shall Overadvance Loans be required that would cause

-27-

the outstanding Revolver Loans and LC Obligations to exceed the aggregate Revolver
Commitments. Any funding of an Overadvance Loan or sufferance of an Overadvance shall not
constitute a waiver by Agent or Lenders of the Event of Default caused thereby. In no event shall
any Borrower or other Obligor be deemed a beneficiary of this Section nor authorized to enforce any
of its terms.

2.1.6  Protective Advances . Agent shall be authorized, in its discretion, at any time
that a Default or Event of Default exists or any conditions in  Section 6  are not satisfied, and
without regard to the aggregate Revolver Commitments, to make Base Rate Revolver Loans
(  Protective Advances  ) (a) up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000 outstanding at any
time, if Agent deems such Loans necessary or desirable to preserve or protect any Collateral, or to
enhance the collectibility or repayment of Obligations; or (b) to pay any other amounts chargeable
to Obligors under any Loan Documents, including costs, fees and expenses. All Protective Advances
shall be Obligations, secured by the Collateral, and shall be treated for all purposes as
Extraordinary Expenses. Each Lender shall participate in each Protective Advance on a Pro Rata
basis. Required Lenders may at any time revoke Agent s authorization to make further Protective
Advances by written notice to Agent. Absent such revocation, Agent s determination that funding of
a Protective Advance is appropriate shall be conclusive.

2.2    Letter of Credit Facility  .

2.2.1  Issuance of Letters of Credit . Issuing Bank agrees to issue Letters of Credit
from time to time until 30 days prior to the Revolver Termination Date (or until the Commitment
Termination Date, if earlier), on the terms set forth herein, including the following:

(a) Each Borrower acknowledges that Issuing Bank s willingness to issue any Letter of Credit
is conditioned upon Issuing Bank s receipt of a LC Application with respect to the requested Letter
of Credit, as well as such other instruments and agreements as Issuing Bank may customarily require
for issuance of a letter of credit of similar type and amount. Issuing Bank shall have no
obligation to issue any Letter of Credit unless (i) Issuing Bank receives a LC Request and LC
Application at least three Business Days prior to the requested date of issuance; and (ii) each LC
Condition is satisfied. If Issuing Bank receives written notice from a Lender at least one
Business Day before issuance of a Letter of Credit that any LC Condition has not been satisfied,
Issuing Bank shall have no obligation to issue the requested Letter of Credit (or any other) until
such notice is withdrawn in writing by that Lender or until Required Lenders have waived such
condition in accordance with this Agreement. Prior to receipt of any such notice, Issuing Bank
shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any failure of LC Conditions.

(b) Letters of Credit may be requested by a Borrower only (i) to support obligations of such
Borrower incurred in the Ordinary Course of Business; or (ii) for other purposes as Agent and
Lenders may approve from time to time in writing. The renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit
shall be treated as the issuance of a new Letter of Credit, except that delivery of a new LC
Application shall be required at the discretion of Issuing Bank.

(c) Borrowers assume all risks of the acts, omissions or misuses of any Letter of Credit by
the beneficiary. In connection with issuance of any Letter of Credit, none of Agent, Issuing Bank
or any Lender shall be responsible for the existence, character, quality, quantity, condition,
packing, value or delivery of any goods purported to be represented by any Documents; any
differences or variation in the character, quality, quantity, condition, packing, value or delivery
of any goods from that expressed in any Documents; the form, validity, sufficiency, accuracy,
genuineness or legal effect of any Documents or of any endorsements thereon; the time, place,
manner or order in which shipment of goods is made; partial or incomplete shipment of, or failure
to ship, any goods referred to in a Letter of Credit or Documents; any deviation from instructions,
delay, default or fraud by any shipper or other Person in connection with any goods, shipment or
delivery; any breach of contract between a shipper or vendor and a Borrower; errors, omissions,
interruptions or delays in transmission or delivery of any messages, by mail, cable, telegraph,
telex, telecopy, e-mail, telephone or otherwise; errors in interpretation of technical

-28-

terms; the misapplication by a beneficiary of any Letter of Credit or the proceeds thereof; or
any consequences arising from causes beyond the control of Issuing Bank, Agent or any Lender,
including any act or omission of a Governmental Authority. The rights and remedies of Issuing Bank
under the Loan Documents shall be cumulative. Issuing Bank shall be fully subrogated to the rights
and remedies of each beneficiary whose claims against Borrowers are discharged with proceeds of any
Letter of Credit.

(d) In connection with its administration of and enforcement of rights or remedies under any
Letters of Credit or LC Documents, Issuing Bank shall be entitled to act, and shall be fully
protected in acting, upon any certification, notice or other communication in whatever form
believed by Issuing Bank, in good faith, to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or
made by a proper Person. Issuing Bank may consult with and employ legal counsel, accountants and
other experts to advise it concerning its obligations, rights and remedies, and shall be entitled
to act upon, and shall be fully protected in any action taken in good faith reliance upon, any
advice given by such experts. Issuing Bank may employ agents and attorneys-in-fact in connection
with any matter relating to Letters of Credit or LC Documents, and shall not be liable for the
negligence or misconduct of any such agents or attorneys-in-fact selected with reasonable care.

(e) As of the Closing Date, Bank of America has under the Existing Credit Agreement issued
for the account of Borrowers certain existing letters of credit listed in  Schedule 2.2.1  hereto
(collectively the   Existing Letters of Credit  ). Upon satisfaction of the conditions set
forth in  Section 6.1 , the Existing Letters of Credit shall, effective as of the Closing Date,
become Letters of Credit under this Agreement to the same extent as if initially issued hereunder
and each Lender shall be deemed to have irrevocably purchased from the Issuing Bank of such
Existing Letters of Credit a participation in such Letters of Credit and drawings thereunder in an
amount equal to such Lender s Pro Rata share of the maximum amount which is or at any time may
become available to be drawn thereunder. All such Existing Letters of Credit which become Letters
of Credit under this Agreement shall be fully secured by the Collateral commencing on the Closing
Date to the same extent as if initially issued hereunder on such date.

2.2.2  Reimbursement; Participations .

(a) If Issuing Bank honors any request for payment under a Letter of Credit, Borrowers shall
pay to Issuing Bank, on the same day (  Reimbursement Date  ), the amount paid by Issuing
Bank under such Letter of Credit, together with interest at the interest rate for Base Rate
Revolver Loans from the Reimbursement Date until payment by Borrowers. The obligation of Borrowers
to reimburse Issuing Bank for any payment made under a Letter of Credit shall be absolute,
unconditional, irrevocable, and joint and several, and shall be paid without regard to any lack of
validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or the existence of any claim, setoff, defense
or other right that Borrowers may have at any time against the beneficiary. Whether or not
Borrower Agent submits a Notice of Borrowing, Borrowers shall be deemed to have requested a
Borrowing of Base Rate Revolver Loans in an amount necessary to pay all amounts due Issuing Bank on
any Reimbursement Date and each Lender agrees to fund its Pro Rata share of such Borrowing whether
or not the Revolver Commitments have terminated, an Overadvance exists or is created thereby, or
the conditions in  Section 6  are satisfied.

(b) Upon issuance of a Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to have irrevocably and
unconditionally purchased from Issuing Bank, without recourse or warranty, an undivided Pro Rata
interest and participation in all LC Obligations relating to the Letter of Credit. If Issuing Bank
makes any payment under a Letter of Credit and Borrowers do not reimburse such payment on the
Reimbursement Date, Agent shall promptly notify Lenders and each Lender shall promptly (within one
Business Day) and unconditionally pay to Agent, for the benefit of Issuing Bank, the Lender s Pro
Rata share of such payment. Upon request by a Lender, Issuing Bank shall furnish copies of any
Letters of Credit and LC Documents in its possession at such time.

-29-

(c) The obligation of each Lender to make payments to Agent for the account of Issuing Bank in
connection with Issuing Bank s payment under a Letter of Credit shall be absolute, unconditional
and irrevocable, not subject to any counterclaim, setoff, qualification or exception whatsoever,
and shall be made in accordance with this Agreement under all circumstances, irrespective of any
lack of validity or unenforceability of any Loan Documents; any draft, certificate or other
document presented under a Letter of Credit having been determined to be forged, fraudulent,
invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any
respect; or the existence of any setoff or defense that any Obligor may have with respect to any
Obligations. Issuing Bank does not assume any responsibility for any failure or delay in
performance or any breach by any Borrower or other Person of any obligations under any LC
Documents. Issuing Bank does not make to Lenders any express or implied warranty, representation
or guaranty with respect to the Collateral, LC Documents or any Obligor. Issuing Bank shall not be
responsible to any Lender for any recitals, statements, information, representations or warranties
contained in, or for the execution, validity, genuineness, effectiveness or enforceability of any
LC Documents; the validity, genuineness, enforceability, collectibility, value or sufficiency of
any Collateral or the perfection of any Lien therein; or the assets, liabilities, financial
condition, results of operations, business, creditworthiness or legal status of any Obligor.

(d) No Issuing Bank Indemnitee shall be liable to any Lender or other Person for any action
taken or omitted to be taken in connection with any LC Documents except as a result of its actual
gross negligence or willful misconduct. Issuing Bank shall not have any liability to any Lender if
Issuing Bank refrains from any action under any Letter of Credit or LC Documents until it receives
written instructions from Required Lenders.

2.2.3  Cash Collateral . If any LC Obligations, whether or not then due or payable,
shall for any reason be outstanding at any time (a) that an Event of Default exists, (b) that
Availability is less than zero, (c) after the Commitment Termination Date, or (d) within 20
Business Days prior to the Revolver Termination Date, then Borrowers shall, at Issuing Bank s or
Agent s request, pay to Issuing Bank the amount of all outstanding LC Obligations and Cash
Collateralize all outstanding Letters of Credit. If Borrowers fail to Cash Collateralize
outstanding Letters of Credit as required herein, Lenders may (and shall upon direction of Agent)
advance, as Revolver Loans, the amount of the Cash Collateral required (whether or not the Revolver
Commitments have terminated, an Overadvance exists, or the conditions in  Section 6  are satisfied).

SECTION 3. INTEREST, FEES AND CHARGES 

3.1    Interest.  

3.1.1  Rates and Payment of Interest. 

(a) The Obligations shall bear interest (i) if a Base Rate Revolver Loan, at the Base Rate in
effect from time to time, plus the Applicable Margin; (ii) if a LIBOR Loan, at Adjusted LIBOR for
the applicable Interest Period, plus the Applicable Margin; and (iii) if any other Obligation
(including, to the extent permitted by law, interest not paid when due), at the Base Rate in effect
from time to time, plus the Applicable Margin for Base Rate Revolver Loans. Interest shall accrue
from the date the Revolver Loan is advanced or the Obligation is incurred or payable, until paid by
Borrowers. If a Revolver Loan is repaid on the same day made, one day s interest shall accrue.
Borrowers shall not be permitted to request LIBOR Revolver Loans with respect to the Inventory
Borrowing Portion.

(b) During an Insolvency Proceeding with respect to any Borrower, or during any other Event of
Default if Agent or Required Lenders in their discretion so elect, Obligations shall bear interest
at the Default Rate. Each Borrower acknowledges that the cost and expense to Agent and each Lender
due to an Event of Default are difficult to ascertain and that the Default Rate is a fair and
reasonable estimate to compensate Agent and Lenders for such added cost and expense.

-30-

(c) Interest accrued on the Loans shall be due and payable in arrears, (i) on the first day of
each month and, for any LIBOR Loan, the last day of its Interest Period; (ii) on any date of
prepayment, with respect to the principal amount of Loans being prepaid; and (iii) on the Revolver
Commitment Termination Date. Interest accrued on any other Obligations shall be due and payable as
provided in the Loan Documents and, if no payment date is specified, shall be due and payable  on
demand . Notwithstanding the foregoing, interest accrued at the Default Rate shall be due and
payable  on demand .

3.1.2  Application of Adjusted LIBOR to Outstanding Revolver Loans .

(a) Borrowers may on any Business Day, subject to delivery of a Notice of
Conversion/Continuation, elect to convert any portion of the Base Rate Revolver Loans to, or to
continue any LIBOR Loan at the end of its Interest Period as, a LIBOR Loan. During any Default or
Event of Default, Agent may (and shall at the direction of Required Lenders) declare that no Loan
may be made, converted or continued as a LIBOR Loan.

(b) Whenever Borrowers desire to convert or continue Loans as LIBOR Loans, Borrower Agent
shall give Agent a Notice of Conversion/Continuation, no later than 11:00 a.m. at least two
Business Days before the requested conversion or continuation date. Promptly after receiving any
such notice, Agent shall notify each Lender thereof. Each Notice of Conversion/Continuation shall
be irrevocable, and shall specify the aggregate principal amount of Loans to be converted or
continued, the conversion or continuation date (which shall be a Business Day), and the duration of
the Interest Period (which shall be deemed to be one month if not specified). If, upon the
expiration of any Interest Period in respect of any LIBOR Loans, Borrowers shall have failed to
deliver a Notice of Conversion/Continuation, they shall be deemed to have elected to convert such
Loans into Base Rate Revolver Loans.

3.1.3  Interest Periods . In connection with the making, conversion or continuation of
any LIBOR Loans, Borrowers shall select an interest period (  Interest Period  ) to apply,
which interest period shall be one, two, three or six months;  provided ,  however ,
that:

(a) the Interest Period shall commence on the date the Loan is made or continued as, or
converted into, a LIBOR Loan, and shall expire on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar
month at its end;

(b) if any Interest Period commences on a day for which there is no corresponding day in the
calendar month at its end or if such corresponding day falls after the last Business Day of such
month, then the Interest Period shall expire on the last Business Day of such month; and if any
Interest Period would expire on a day that is not a Business Day, the period shall expire on the
next Business Day; and

(c) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Revolver Termination Date.

3.1.4  Interest Rate Not Ascertainable . If Agent shall determine that on any date for
determining Adjusted LIBOR, due to any circumstance affecting the London interbank market, adequate
and fair means do not exist for ascertaining such rate on the basis provided herein, then Agent
shall immediately notify Borrowers of such determination. Until Agent notifies Borrowers that such
circumstance no longer exists, the obligation of Lenders to make LIBOR Loans shall be suspended,
and no further Loans may be converted into or continued as LIBOR Loans.

3.2    Fees  .

3.2.1  Unused Line Fee . Borrowers shall pay to Agent, for the Pro Rata benefit of
Lenders, a fee which shall accrue at a rate per annum equal to the percentage set forth below
opposite the Commitment Utilization Percentage with respect to each day (the   Commitment Fee
Rate  ) of the daily

-31-

unused amount of the respective Revolver Commitments of such Lenders (excluding with respect
to Agent the amount of any Swingline Loans) during the period from and including the Closing Date
to the Commitment Termination Date:

Such fee shall be payable in arrears, on the first day of each month and on the Commitment
Termination Date.

3.2.2  LC Facility Fees . Borrowers shall pay (a) to Agent, for the Pro Rata benefit of
Lenders, a fee equal 2.50% per annum times the average daily stated amount of Letters of Credit,
which fee shall be payable monthly in arrears, on the first day of each month; (b) to Agent, for
its own account, a fronting fee equal to 0.25% of the stated amount of each Letter of Credit, which
fee shall be payable upon issuance of the Letter of Credit and on each anniversary date of such
issuance, and shall be payable on any increase in stated amount made between any such dates; and
(c) to Issuing Bank, for its own account, all customary charges associated with the issuance,
amending, negotiating, payment, processing, transfer and administration of Letters of Credit, which
charges shall be paid as and when incurred. During an Event of Default, the fee payable under
clause (a) shall be increased by 2% per annum. With respect to Existing Letters of Credit, the fees
described in clauses (a), (b) and (c) above shall accrue from and including the Closing Date.

3.2.3  Closing Fee . Borrowers shall pay to Agent, for the Pro Rata benefit of the
Lenders, a closing fee of $100,000, which shall be paid concurrently with the funding of the
initial Loans hereunder.

3.2.4  Agent Fees . In consideration of Agent s syndication of the Revolver Commitments
and service as Agent hereunder, Borrowers shall pay to Agent, for its own account, a non-refundable
annual administrative agent s fee of $15,000 per annum, payable in advance on the Closing Date and
on each anniversary thereof.

3.3    Computation of Interest, Fees, Yield Protection   .  All interest, as well as fees
and other charges calculated on a per annum basis, shall be computed for the actual days elapsed,
based on a year of 360 days. Each determination by Agent of any interest, fees or interest rate
hereunder shall be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error. All fees
shall be fully earned when due and shall not be subject to rebate or refund, nor subject to
proration except as specifically provided herein. All fees payable under  Section 3.2  are
compensation for services and are not, and shall not be deemed to be, interest or any other charge
for the use, forbearance or detention of money. A certificate as to amounts payable by Borrowers
under  Section 3.4, 3.6, 3.7, 3.9  or  5.8 , submitted to Borrowers by Agent or the affected Lender, as
applicable, shall be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.

3.4    Reimbursement Obligations   .  Borrowers shall reimburse Agent for all Extraordinary
Expenses. Borrowers shall also reimburse Agent for all legal, accounting, appraisal, consulting,
and other fees, costs and expenses incurred by it in connection with (a) negotiation and
preparation of any Loan Documents, including any amendment or other modification thereof; (b)
administration of and actions relating to any Collateral, Loan Documents and transactions
contemplated thereby, including any actions taken to perfect or maintain priority of Agent s Liens
on any Collateral, to maintain any insurance required hereunder or to verify Collateral; and (c)
each inspection, audit or appraisal with respect to any Obligor or Collateral, whether prepared by
Agent s personnel or a third party. All legal, accounting and

-32-

consulting fees shall be charged to Borrowers by Agent s professionals at their full hourly
rates, regardless of any reduced or alternative fee billing arrangements that Agent, any Lender or
any of their Affiliates may have with such professionals with respect to this or any other
transaction. All amounts reimbursable by Borrowers under this Section shall constitute Obligations
secured by the Collateral and shall be payable  on demand .

3.5    Illegality   .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if (a) any change in
any law or interpretation thereof by any Governmental Authority makes it unlawful for a Lender to
make or maintain a LIBOR Loan or to maintain any Revolver Commitment with respect to LIBOR Loans or
(b) a Lender determines that the making or continuance of a LIBOR Loan has become impracticable as
a result of a circumstance that adversely affects the London interbank market or the position of
such Lender in such market, then such Lender shall give notice thereof to Agent and Borrowers and
may (i) declare that LIBOR Loans will not thereafter be made by such Lender, whereupon any request
for a LIBOR Loan from such Lender shall be deemed to be a request for a Base Rate Revolver Loan
unless such Lender s declaration has been withdrawn (and it shall be withdrawn promptly upon
cessation of the circumstances described in clause (a) or (b) above); and/or (ii) require that all
outstanding LIBOR Loans made by such Lender be converted to Base Rate Revolver Loans immediately,
in which event all outstanding LIBOR Loans of such Lender shall be immediately converted to Base
Rate Revolver Loans.

3.6    Increased Costs   .  If, by reason of (a) the introduction of or any change
(including any change by way of imposition or increase of Statutory Reserves or other reserve
requirements) in any law or interpretation thereof, or (b) the compliance with any guideline or
request from any Governmental Authority or other Person exercising control over banks or financial
institutions generally (whether or not having the force of law):

(i) a Lender shall be subject to any Tax with respect to any LIBOR Loan or Letter of
Credit or its obligation to make LIBOR Loans, issue Letters of Credit or participate in LC
Obligations, or a change shall result in the basis of taxation of any payment to a Lender
with respect to its LIBOR Loans or its obligation to make LIBOR Loans, issue Letters of
Credit or participate in LC Obligations (except for Excluded Taxes); or

(ii) any reserve (including any imposed by the Board of Governors), special deposits or
similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit
extended by, a Lender shall be imposed or deemed applicable, or any other condition
affecting a Lender s LIBOR Loans or obligation to make LIBOR Loans, issue Letters of Credit
or participate in LC Obligations shall be imposed on such Lender or the London interbank
market;

and as a result there shall be an increase in the cost to such Lender of agreeing to make or
making, funding or maintaining LIBOR Loans, Letters of Credit or participations in LC Obligations
(except to the extent already included in determination of Adjusted LIBOR), or there shall be a
reduction in the amount receivable by such Lender, then the Lender shall promptly notify Borrowers
and Agent of such event, and Borrowers shall, within five days following demand therefor, pay such
Lender the amount of such increased costs or reduced amounts.

If a Lender determines that, because of circumstances described above or any other
circumstances arising hereafter affecting such Lender, the London interbank market or the Lender s
position in such market, Adjusted LIBOR or its Applicable Margin, as applicable, will not
adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lender of funding LIBOR Loans, issuing Letters of
Credit or participating in LC Obligations, then (A) the Lender shall promptly notify Borrowers and
Agent of such event; (B) such Lender s obligation to make LIBOR Loans, issue Letters of Credit or
participate in LC Obligations shall be immediately suspended, until each condition giving rise to
such suspension no longer exists; and (C) such Lender shall make a Base Rate Revolver Loan as part
of any requested Borrowing of LIBOR Loans, which Base Rate Revolver Loan shall, for all purposes,
be considered part of such Borrowing.

-33-

3.7    Capital Adequacy   .  If a Lender determines that any introduction of or any change
in a Capital Adequacy Regulation, any change in the interpretation or administration of a Capital
Adequacy Regulation by a Governmental Authority charged with interpretation or administration
thereof, or any compliance by such Lender or any Person controlling such Lender with a Capital
Adequacy Regulation, increases the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such
Lender or Person (taking into consideration its capital adequacy policies and desired return on
capital) as a consequence of such Lender s Revolver Commitments, Loans, participations in LC
Obligations or other obligations under the Loan Documents, then Borrowers shall, within five days
following demand therefor, pay such Lender an amount sufficient to compensate for such increase. A
Lender s demand for payment shall set forth the nature of the occurrence giving rise to such
compensation and a calculation of the amount to be paid. In determining such amount, the Lender
may use any reasonable averaging and attribution method.

3.8    Mitigation  . Each Lender agrees that, upon becoming aware that it is subject to
 Section 3.5, 3.6 ,  3.7  or  5.8 , it will take reasonable measures to reduce Borrowers  obligations
under such Sections, including funding or maintaining its Revolver Commitments or Loans through
another office, as long as use of such measures would not adversely affect the Lender s Revolver
Commitments, Loans, business or interests, and would not be inconsistent with any internal policy
or applicable legal or regulatory restriction.

3.9    Funding Losses   .  If for any reason (other than default by a Lender) (a) any
Borrowing of, or conversion to or continuation of, a LIBOR Loan does not occur on the date
specified therefor in a Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Conversion/Continuation (whether or not
withdrawn), (b) any repayment or conversion of a LIBOR Loan occurs on a day other than the end of
its Interest Period, or (c) Borrowers fail to repay a LIBOR Loan when required hereunder, then
Borrowers shall pay to Agent its customary administrative charge and to each Lender all losses and
expenses that it sustains as a consequence thereof, including any loss or expense arising from
liquidation or redeployment of funds or from fees payable to terminate deposits of matching funds.
Lenders shall not be required to purchase Dollar deposits in the London interbank market or any
other offshore Dollar market to fund any LIBOR Loan, but the provisions hereof shall be deemed to
apply as if each Lender had purchased such deposits to fund its LIBOR Loans.

3.10    Maximum Interest   .  In no event shall interest, charges or other amounts that are
contracted for, charged or received by Agent and Lenders pursuant to any Loan Documents and that
are deemed interest under Applicable Law (  interest  ) exceed the highest rate permissible
under Applicable Law (  maximum rate  ). If, in any month, any interest rate, absent the
foregoing limitation, would have exceeded the maximum rate, then the interest rate for that month
shall be the maximum rate and, if in a future month, that interest rate would otherwise be less
than the maximum rate, then the rate shall remain at the maximum rate until the amount of interest
actually paid equals the amount of interest which would have accrued if it had not been limited by
the maximum rate. If, upon Full Payment of the Obligations, the total amount of interest actually
paid under the Loan Documents is less than the total amount of interest that would, but for this
Section, have accrued under the Loan Documents, then Borrowers shall, to the extent permitted by
Applicable Law, pay to Agent, for the account of Lenders, (a) the lesser of (i) the amount of
interest that would have been charged if the maximum rate had been in effect at all times, or (ii)
the amount of interest that would have accrued had the interest rate otherwise set forth in the
Loan Documents been in effect,  minus  (b) the amount of interest actually paid under the
Loan Documents. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that Agent or any Lender has
received interest in excess of the maximum amount allowed under Applicable Law, such excess shall
be deemed received on account of, and shall automatically be applied to reduce, Obligations other
than interest (regardless of any erroneous application thereof by Agent or any Lender), and upon
Full Payment of the Obligations, any balance shall be refunded to Borrowers. In determining
whether any excess interest has been charged or received by Agent or any Lender, all interest at
any time charged or received from Borrowers in connection with the Loan Documents shall, to the
extent permitted by Applicable Law, be amortized, prorated, allocated and spread in equal parts
throughout the full term of the Obligations.

-34-

SECTION 4. LOAN ADMINISTRATION 

4.1
Manner of Borrowing and Funding Revolver Loans . 

4.1.1
 Notice of Borrowing .

(a) Whenever Borrowers desire funding of a Borrowing of Revolver Loans, Borrower Agent shall
give Agent a Notice of Borrowing. Such notice must be received by Agent no later than 11:00 a.m.
(i) on the Business Day of the requested funding date, in the case of Base Rate Revolver Loans, and
(ii) at least two Business Days prior to the requested funding date, in the case of LIBOR Loans.
Notices received after 11:00 a.m. shall be deemed received on the next Business Day. Each Notice
of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and shall specify (A) the principal amount of the Borrowing, (B)
the requested funding date (which must be a Business Day), (C) whether the Borrowing is to be made
as Base Rate Revolver Loans or LIBOR Loans, and (D) in the case of LIBOR Loans, the duration of the
applicable Interest Period (which shall be deemed to be one month if not specified).

(b) Unless payment is otherwise timely made by Borrowers, the becoming due of any Obligations
(whether principal, interest, fees or other charges, including Extraordinary Expenses, LC
Obligations, Cash Collateral and Bank Product Debt) shall be deemed to be a request for Base Rate
Revolver Loans on the due date, in the amount of such Obligations. The proceeds of such Revolver
Loans shall be disbursed as direct payment of the relevant Obligation.

(c) If Borrowers establish a controlled disbursement account with Agent or any Affiliate of
Agent, then the presentation for payment of any check or other item of payment drawn on such
account at a time when there are insufficient funds to cover it shall be deemed to be a request for
Base Rate Revolver Loans on the date of such presentation, in the amount of the check and items
presented for payment. The proceeds of such Revolver Loans may be disbursed directly to the
controlled disbursement account or other appropriate account.

4.1.2  Fundings by Lenders . Each Lender shall timely honor its Revolver Commitment by
funding its Pro Rata share of each Borrowing of Revolver Loans that is properly requested
hereunder. Except for Borrowings to be made as Swingline Loans, Agent shall endeavor to notify
Lenders of each Notice of Borrowing (or deemed request for a Borrowing) by 12:00 noon on the
proposed funding date for Base Rate Revolver Loans or by 3:00 p.m. at least two Business Days
before any proposed funding of LIBOR Loans. Each Lender shall fund to Agent such Lender s Pro Rata
share of the Borrowing to the account specified by Agent in immediately available funds not later
than 2:00 p.m. on the requested funding date, unless Agent s notice is received after the times
provided above, in which event Lender shall fund its Pro Rata share by 11:00 a.m. on the next
Business Day. Subject to its receipt of such amounts from Lenders, Agent shall disburse the
proceeds of the Revolver Loans as directed by Borrower Agent. Unless Agent shall have received (in
sufficient time to act) written notice from a Lender that it does not intend to fund its Pro Rata
share of a Borrowing, Agent may assume that such Lender has deposited or promptly will deposit its
share with Agent, and Agent may disburse a corresponding amount to Borrowers. If a Lender s share
of any Borrowing is not in fact received by Agent, then Borrowers agree to repay to Agent  on demand 
the amount of such share, together with interest thereon from the date disbursed until repaid, at
the rate applicable to such Borrowing.

4.1.3  Swingline Loans; Settlement .

(a) Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, advance Swingline Loans to Borrowers out of
Agent s own funds, up to an aggregate outstanding amount of $2,500,000, unless the funding is
specifically required to be made by all Lenders hereunder. Each Swingline Loan shall constitute a
Revolver Loan for all purposes, except that payments thereon shall be made to Agent for its own
account.

-35-

The obligation of Borrowers to repay Swingline Loans shall be evidenced by the records of
Agent and need not be evidenced by any promissory note.

(b) To facilitate administration of the Revolver Loans, Lenders and Agent agree (which
agreement is solely among them, and not for the benefit of or enforceable by any Borrower) that
settlement among them with respect to Swingline Loans and other Revolver Loans may take place
periodically on a date determined from time to time by Agent, which shall occur at least once every
five Business Days. On each settlement date, settlement shall be made with each Lender in
accordance with the Settlement Report delivered by Agent to Lenders. Between settlement dates,
Agent may in its discretion apply payments on Revolver Loans to Swingline Loans, regardless of any
designation by Borrower or any provision herein to the contrary. Each Lender s obligation to make
settlements with Agent is absolute and unconditional, without offset, counterclaim or other
defense, and whether or not the Revolver Commitments have terminated, an Overadvance exists, or the
conditions in  Section 6  are satisfied. If, due to an Insolvency Proceeding with respect to a
Borrower or otherwise, any Swingline Loan may not be settled among Lenders hereunder, then each
Lender shall be deemed to have purchased from Agent a Pro Rata participation in each unpaid
Swingline Loan and shall transfer the amount of such participation to Agent, in immediately
available funds, within one Business Day after Agent s request therefor.

4.1.4  Notices . Each Borrower authorizes Agent and Lenders to extend, convert or
continue Loans, effect selections of interest rates, and transfer funds to or on behalf of
Borrowers based on telephonic or e-mailed instructions. Borrowers shall confirm each such request
by prompt delivery to Agent of a Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Conversion/Continuation, if
applicable, but if it differs in any material respect from the action taken by Agent or Lenders,
the records of Agent and Lenders shall govern. Neither Agent nor any Lender shall have any
liability for any loss suffered by a Borrower as a result of Agent or any Lender acting upon its
understanding of telephonic or e-mailed instructions from a person believed in good faith by Agent
or any Lender to be a person authorized to give such instructions on a Borrower s behalf.

4.2    Defaulting Lender  . If a Lender fails to make any payment to Agent that is
required hereunder, Agent may (but shall not be required to), in its discretion, retain payments
that would otherwise be made to such defaulting Lender hereunder, apply the payments to such
Lender s defaulted obligations or readvance the funds to Borrowers in accordance with this
Agreement. The failure of any Lender to fund a Loan or to make a payment in respect of a LC
Obligation shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder, and no Lender shall be
responsible for default by another Lender. Lenders and Agent agree (which agreement is solely
among them, and not for the benefit of or enforceable by any Borrower) that, solely for purposes of
determining a defaulting Lender s right to vote on matters relating to the Loan Documents and to
share in payments, fees and Collateral proceeds thereunder, a defaulting Lender shall not be deemed
to be a  Lender  until all its defaulted obligations have been cured.

4.3    Number and Amount of LIBOR Loans; Determination of Rate  . For ease of
administration, all LIBOR Revolver Loans having the same length and beginning date of their
Interest Periods shall be aggregated together, and such Loans shall be allocated among Lenders on a
Pro Rata basis. No more than eight aggregated LIBOR Loans may be outstanding at any time, and each
aggregate LIBOR Loan when made, continued or converted shall be in a minimum amount of $1,000,000,
or an increment of $100,000 in excess thereof. Upon determining Adjusted LIBOR for any Interest
Period requested by Borrowers, Agent shall promptly notify Borrowers thereof by telephone or
electronically and, if requested by Borrowers, shall confirm any telephonic notice in writing.

4.4    Borrower Agent  . Each Borrower hereby designates EMAK (  Borrower Agent  )
as its representative and agent for all purposes under the Loan Documents, including requests for
Loans and Letters of Credit, designation of interest rates, delivery or receipt of communications
with Agent, Issuing

-36-

Bank or any Lender, preparation and delivery of Borrowing Base and financial reports, receipt
and payment of Obligations, requests for waivers, amendments or other accommodations, actions under
the Loan Documents (including in respect of compliance with covenants), and all other dealings with
Agent, Issuing Bank or any Lender. Borrower Agent hereby accepts such appointment. Agent and
Lenders shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, any notice or
communication (including any notice of borrowing) delivered by Borrower Agent on behalf of any
Borrower. Agent and Lenders may give any notice or communication with a Borrower hereunder to
Borrower Agent on behalf of such Borrower. Agent shall have the right, in its discretion, to deal
exclusively with Borrower Agent for any or all purposes under the Loan Documents. Each Borrower
agrees that any notice, election, communication, representation, agreement or undertaking made on
its behalf by Borrower Agent shall be binding upon and enforceable against it.

4.5    One Obligation  . The Loans, LC Obligations and other Obligations shall constitute
one general obligation of Borrowers and (unless otherwise expressly provided in any Loan Document)
shall be secured by Agent s Lien upon all Collateral;  provided ,  however , that Agent
and each Lender shall be deemed to be a creditor of, and the holder of a separate claim against,
each Borrower to the extent of any Obligations jointly or severally owed by such Borrower.

4.6    Effect of Termination  . On the effective date of any termination of the Revolver
Commitments, all Obligations shall be immediately due and payable, and any Lender may terminate its
and its Affiliates  Bank Products (including, with the consent of Agent, any Cash Management
Services). All undertakings of Borrowers contained in the Loan Documents shall survive any
termination, and Agent shall retain its Liens in the Collateral and all of its rights and remedies
under the Loan Documents until Full Payment of the Obligations. Notwithstanding Full Payment of
the Obligations, Agent shall not be required to terminate its Liens in any Collateral unless, with
respect to any damages Agent may incur as a result of the dishonor or return of Payment Items
applied to Obligations, Agent receives (a) a written agreement, executed by Borrowers and any
Person whose advances are used in whole or in part to satisfy the Obligations, indemnifying Agent
and Lenders from any such damages; or (b) such Cash Collateral as Agent, in its discretion, deems
necessary to protect against any such damages. The provisions of  Sections 2.3, 3.4, 3.6, 3.7, 3.9,
5.4, 5.8, 12, 14.2  and this Section, and the obligation of each Obligor and Lender with respect to
each indemnity given by it in any Loan Document, shall survive Full Payment of the Obligations and
any release relating to this credit facility.

SECTION 5. PAYMENTS 

5.1    General Payment Provisions  . All payments of Obligations shall be made in Dollars,
without offset, counterclaim or defense of any kind, free of (and without deduction for) any Taxes,
and in immediately available funds, not later than 12:00 noon on the due date. Any payment after
such time shall be deemed made on the next Business Day. Borrowers may, at the time of payment,
specify to Agent the Obligations to which such payment is to be applied, but Agent shall in all
events retain the right to apply such payment in such manner as Agent, subject to the provisions
hereof, may determine to be appropriate. If any payment under the Loan Documents shall be stated
to be due on a day other than a Business Day, the due date shall be extended to the next Business
Day and such extension of time shall be included in any computation of interest and fees. Any
payment of a LIBOR Loan prior to the end of its Interest Period shall be accompanied by all amounts
due under  Section 3.9 . Any prepayment of Loans shall be applied first to Base Rate Revolver Loans
and then to LIBOR Loans.

5.2    Repayment of Revolver Loans  . Revolver Loans shall be due and payable in full on
the Revolver Termination Date, unless payment is sooner required hereunder. Revolver Loans may be
prepaid from time to time, without penalty or premium. If any Asset Disposition includes the
disposition of Accounts or Inventory, then Net Proceeds equal to the greater of (a) the net book
value of such Accounts and Inventory, or (b) the reduction in the Borrowing Base upon giving effect
to such disposition, shall be applied to the Revolver Loans. Notwithstanding anything herein to
the contrary, if

-37-

an Overadvance exists, Borrowers shall, on the sooner of Agent s demand or the first Business
Day after any Borrower has knowledge thereof, repay the outstanding Revolver Loans in an amount
sufficient to reduce the principal balance of Revolver Loans to the Borrowing Base.

5.3    Payment of Other Obligations  . Obligations other than Revolver Loans, including LC
Obligations and Extraordinary Expenses, shall be paid by Borrowers as provided in the Loan
Documents or, if no payment date is specified,  on demand .

5.4    Marshaling; Payments Set Aside  . None of Agent or Lenders shall be under any
obligation to marshal any assets in favor of any Obligor or against any Obligations. If any
Obligor makes a payment to Agent or Lenders, or if Agent or any Lender receives payment from the
proceeds of Collateral, exercise of setoff or otherwise, and such payment is subsequently
invalidated or required to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other Person, then the
Obligations originally intended to be satisfied, and all Liens, rights and remedies therefor, shall
be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been received and any
enforcement or setoff had not occurred.

5.5    Post-Default Allocation of Payments  .

5.5.1  Allocation . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, during an Event of
Default, monies to be applied to the Obligations, whether arising from payments by Obligors,
realization on Collateral, setoff or otherwise, shall be allocated as follows:

(a)  first , to all costs and expenses, including Extraordinary Expenses, owing to
Agent;

(b)  second , to all amounts owing to Agent on Swingline Loans or Protective Advances;

(c)  third , to all amounts owing to Issuing Bank on LC Obligations;

(d)  fourth , to all Obligations constituting fees (excluding amounts relating to Bank
Products);

(e)  fifth , to all Obligations constituting interest (excluding amounts relating to
Bank Products);

(f)  sixth , to provide Cash Collateral for outstanding Letters of Credit;

(g)  seventh , to all other Obligations, other than Bank Product Debt; and

(h)  last , to Bank Product Debt.

Amounts shall be applied to each category of Obligations set forth above until Full Payment thereof
and then to the next category. If amounts are insufficient to satisfy a category, they shall be
applied on a pro rata basis among the Obligations in the category. The allocations set forth in
this Section are solely to determine the rights and priorities of Agent and Lenders as among
themselves, and may be changed by agreement among them without the consent of any Obligor. This
Section is not for the benefit of or enforceable by any Borrower.

5.5.2  Erroneous Application . Agent shall not be liable for any application of amounts
made by it in good faith and, if any such application is subsequently determined to have been made
in error, the sole recourse of any Lender or other Person to which such amount should have been
made shall be to recover the amount from the Person that actually received it (and, if such amount
was received by any Lender, such Lender hereby agrees to return it).

-38-

5.6    Application of Payments  . The ledger balance in the main Dominion Account as of
the end of a Business Day shall be applied to the Obligations at the beginning of the next Business
Day. Each Borrower irrevocably waives the right to direct the application of any payments or
Collateral proceeds, and agrees that Agent shall have the continuing, exclusive right to apply and
reapply same against the Obligations, in such manner as Agent deems advisable, notwithstanding any
entry by Agent in its records. If, as a result of Agent s receipt of Payment Items or proceeds of
Collateral, a credit balance exists, the balance shall not accrue interest in favor of Borrowers
and shall be made available to Borrowers as long as no Default or Event of Default exists.

5.7    Loan Account; Account Stated  .

5.7.1  Loan Account . Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual and customary
practices an account or accounts (  Loan Account  ) evidencing the Debt of Borrowers
resulting from each Loan or issuance of a Letter of Credit from time to time. Any failure of Agent
to record anything in the Loan Account, or any error in doing so, shall not limit or otherwise
affect the obligation of Borrowers to pay any amount owing hereunder. Agent may maintain a single
Loan Account in the name of Borrower Agent, and each Borrower confirms that such arrangement shall
have no effect on the joint and several character of its liability for the Obligations.

5.7.2  Entries Binding . Entries made in the Loan Account shall constitute presumptive
evidence of the information contained therein. If any information contained in the Loan Account is
provided to or inspected by any Person, then such information shall be conclusive and binding on
such Person for all purposes absent manifest error, except to the extent such Person notifies Agent
in writing within 30 days after receipt or inspection that specific information is subject to
dispute.

5.8    Taxes  . If any Taxes (except Excluded Taxes) shall be payable by any party due to
the execution, delivery, issuance or recording of any Loan Documents, or the creation or repayment
of any Obligations, Borrowers shall pay (and shall promptly reimburse Agent and Lenders for their
payment of) all such Taxes, including any interest and penalties thereon, and will indemnify and
hold harmless Indemnitees against all liability in connection therewith. If Borrowers shall be
required by Applicable Law to withhold or deduct any Taxes (except Excluded Taxes) with respect to
any sum payable under any Loan Documents, (a) the sum payable to Agent or such Lender shall be
increased as may be necessary so that, after making all required withholding or deductions, Agent
or such Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had
no such withholding or deductions been made; (b) Borrowers shall make such withholding or
deductions; and (c) Borrowers shall pay the full amount withheld or deducted to the relevant taxing
or other authority in accordance with Applicable Law.

5.9    Withholding Tax Exemption  . At least five Business Days prior to the first date
for payment of interest or fees hereunder to a Foreign Lender, the Foreign Lender shall deliver to
Borrowers and Agent two duly completed copies of IRS Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI (or any subsequent
replacement or substitute form therefor), certifying that such Lender can receive payment of
Obligations without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes. Each
Foreign Lender shall deliver to Borrowers and Agent two additional copies of such form before the
preceding form expires or becomes obsolete or after the occurrence of any event requiring a change
in the form, as well as any amendments, extensions or renewals thereof as may be reasonably
requested by Borrowers or Agent, in each case, certifying that the Foreign Lender can receive
payment of Obligations without deduction or withholding of any such taxes, unless an event
(including any change in treaty or law) has occurred that renders such forms inapplicable or
prevents the Foreign Lender from certifying that it can receive payments without deduction or
withholding of such taxes. During any period that a Foreign Lender does not or is unable to
establish that it can receive payments without deduction or withholding of such taxes, other than
by reason of an event (including any change in treaty or law) that occurs after it becomes a
Lender, Agent may withhold taxes from payments to such Foreign Lender at the applicable statutory
and treaty rates, and

-39-

Borrowers shall not be required to pay any additional amounts under this Section as a result
of such withholding.

5.10    Nature and Extent of Each Borrower s Liability  .

5.10.1  Joint and Several Liability; Obligations Absolute . Each Borrower agrees that
it is jointly and severally liable for, and absolutely and unconditionally guarantees to Agent and
Lenders the prompt payment and performance of, all Obligations and all agreements under the Loan
Documents. Each Borrower agrees that its guaranty obligations hereunder constitute a continuing
guaranty of payment and performance and not of collection, that such obligations shall not be
discharged until Full Payment of the Obligations, and that such obligations are absolute and
unconditional, irrespective of (a) the genuineness, validity, regularity, enforceability,
subordination or any future modification of, or change in, any Obligations or Loan Document, or any
other document, instrument or agreement to which any Obligor is or may become a party or liable;
(b) the absence of any action to enforce this Agreement (including this Section) or any other Loan
Document, or any waiver, consent or indulgence of any kind by Agent or any Lender with respect
thereto; (c) the existence, value or condition of, or failure to perfect a Lien or to preserve
rights against, any security or guaranty for the Obligations or any action, or the absence of any
action, by Agent or any Lender in respect thereof (including the release of any security or
guaranty); (d) the insolvency of any Obligor; (e) any election by Agent or any Lender in an
Insolvency Proceeding for the application of Section 1111(b)(2) of the Bankruptcy Code; (f) any
borrowing or grant of a Lien by any other Borrower, as debtor-in-possession under Section 364 of
the Bankruptcy Code or otherwise; (g) the disallowance of any claims of Agent or any Lender against
any Obligor for the repayment of any Obligations under Section 502 of the Bankruptcy Code or
otherwise; or (h) any other action or circumstances that might otherwise constitute a legal or
equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor, except Full Payment of all Obligations.
In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, each Borrower agrees
that: (i) Agent and any Lender may enforce this obligation upon the occurrence of an Event of
Default hereunder notwithstanding the existence of any dispute between any other Borrower and Agent
or any Lender with respect to the existence of such Event of Default; (ii) the obligations of each
Borrower hereunder are independent of each of the obligations of each other Borrower under the Loan
Documents and the obligations of any other Person and a separate action or actions may be brought
and prosecuted against each Borrower whether or not any action is brought against any other
Borrower or any other Person and whether or not any other Borrower or any other Person is joined in
any such action or actions; and (iii) a payment of a portion, but not all, of the Obligations by
any Borrower shall in no way limit, affect, modify or abridge the liability of such or any other
Borrower for any portion of the Obligations that has not been paid. Each Borrower agrees that its
obligation under this  Section 5.10.1  with respect to the obligations of each other Borrower is a
continuing guaranty and shall be binding upon each Borrower and its successors and assigns, and
each Borrower irrevocably waives any right to revoke its obligations under this  Section 5.10.1  as
to future transactions giving rise to any Obligations.

5.10.2  Actions by Agent and the Lenders . Agent and any Lender may from time to time,
without notice or demand and without affecting the validity or enforceability of this  Section 5.10 
or giving rise to any limitation, impairment or discharge of any Borrower s liability hereunder (a)
renew, extend, accelerate or otherwise change the time, place, manner or terms of payment of the
Obligations of any other Borrower with the consent of such other Borrower, (b) settle, compromise,
release or discharge, or accept or refuse any offer of performance with respect to, or
substitutions for, the Obligations of any other Borrower or any agreement relating thereto and/or
subordinate the payment of the same to the payment of any other obligations, (c) request and accept
other guaranties of the Obligations of any other Borrower and take and hold security for the
payment of such Obligations, (d) release, exchange, compromise, subordinate or modify, with or
without consideration, any security for payment of the Obligations of any other Borrower, any other
guaranties of such Obligations, or any other obligation of any Person with respect to such
Obligations, (e) enforce and apply any security now or hereafter held from any other Borrower by or
for the benefit of Agent or any Lender in respect of the Obligations of any

-40-

other Borrower and direct the order or manner of sale thereof, or exercise any other right or
remedy that Agent or the Lenders, or any of them, may have against any such security, in each case
as Agent or the Lenders in their discretion may determine consistent with this Agreement and any
applicable security agreement, including foreclosure on any such security pursuant to one or more
judicial or nonjudicial sales, whether or not every aspect of any such sale is commercially
reasonable and (f) exercise any other rights available to Agent or the Lenders, or any of them,
under the Loan Documents.

5.10.3  No Discharge . The obligations of each Borrower under this  Section 5.10  shall
be valid and enforceable and shall not be subject to any limitation, impairment or discharge for
any reason (other than payment in full of the Obligations), including the occurrence of any of the
following, whether or not any Borrower shall have had notice or knowledge of any of them: (a) any
failure to assert or enforce or agreement not to assert or enforce, or the stay or enjoining, by
order of court, by operation of law or otherwise, of the exercise or enforcement of, any claim or
demand or any right, power or remedy with respect to the Obligations of any other Borrower or any
agreement relating thereto, or with respect to any other guaranty of or security for the payment of
such Obligations, (b) any waiver or modification of, or any consent to departure from, any of the
terms or provisions of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or any agreement or
instrument executed pursuant thereto, or of any other guaranty or security for the Obligations of
any other Borrower, (c) the Obligations of any other Borrower, or any agreement relating thereto,
at any time being found to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect, (d) the application
of payments received from any source to the payment of indebtedness other than the Obligations of
any other Borrower, even though Agent or the Lenders, or any of them, might have elected to apply
such payment to any part or all of the Obligations of any other Borrower, (e) any failure to
perfect or continue perfection of a security interest in any collateral which secures any of the
Obligations of any other Borrower, (f) any defenses, set-offs or counterclaims which any other
Borrower or any other Person may assert against Agent or any Lender in respect of the Obligations,
including but not limited to failure of consideration, breach of warranty, payment, statute of
frauds, statute of limitations, accord and satisfaction and usury and (g) any other act or thing or
omission, or delay to do any other act or thing, which may or might in any manner or to any extent
vary the risk of any Borrower as an obligor in respect of the Obligations.

5.10.4  Waivers . Each Borrower waives, for the benefit of Agent and each Lender: (a)
any right to require Agent or any Lender, as a condition of payment or performance by such
Borrower, to (i) proceed against any other Borrower or any other Person, (ii) proceed against or
exhaust any security held from any other Borrower or any other Person, (iii) proceed against or
have resort to any balance of any deposit account or credit on the books of Agent or any Lender in
favor of any other Borrower or any other Person, or (iv) pursue any other remedy in the power of
Agent or any Lender; (b) any defense arising by reason of the incapacity, lack of authority or any
disability or other defense of any other Borrower including any defense based on or arising out of
the lack of validity or the unenforceability of the Obligations or any agreement or instrument
relating thereto or by reason of the cessation of the liability of any other Borrower from any
cause other than payment in full of the Obligations; (c) any defense based upon any statute or rule
of law which provides that the obligation of a surety must be neither larger in amount nor in other
respects more burdensome than that of the principal; (d) any defense based upon Agent s or any
Lender s errors or omissions in the administration of the Obligations, except behavior that amounts
to gross negligence or willful misconduct; (e) (i) any principles or provisions of law, statutory
or otherwise, that are or might be in conflict with the terms of this  Section 5.10  and any legal or
equitable discharge of such Borrower s obligations hereunder, (ii) the benefit of any statute of
limitations affecting such Borrower s liability hereunder or the enforcement hereof, (iii) any
rights to set-offs, recoupments and counterclaims and (iv) promptness, diligence and any
requirement that Agent or any Lender protect, secure, perfect or insure any Lien or any property
subject thereto; (f) notices, demands, presentments, protests, notices of protest, notices of
dishonor and notices of any action or inaction, including acceptance of this  Section 5.10 , notices
of default under this Agreement or any agreement or instrument related thereto, notices of any
renewal, extension or modification of the Obligations or any agreement related thereto, notices of
any extension of credit to any other Borrower and

-41-

notices of any of the matters referred to in  Sections 5.10.2  and  5.10.3  and any right to
consent to any thereof; and (g) to the fullest extent permitted by law, any defenses or benefits
that may be derived from or afforded by law which limit the liability of or exonerate guarantors or
sureties, or which may conflict with the terms of this  Section 5.10 .

As used in this paragraph, any reference to  the principal  includes each Borrower and any
reference to  the creditor  includes Agent and each of the Lenders. In accordance with Section
2856 of the California Civil Code each Borrower waives any and all rights and defenses available to
it by reason of Sections 2787 to 2855, inclusive, 2899 and 3433 of the California Civil Code,
including any and all rights or defenses such Borrower may have because the Obligations are secured
by real property or by reason of protection afforded to the principal with respect to any of the
Obligations, or to any other guarantor of any of the Obligations with respect to any of such
guarantor s obligations under its guaranty, in either case pursuant to the antideficiency or other
laws of the State of California limiting or discharging the principal s indebtedness or such
guarantor s obligations, including Section 580a, 580b, 580d or 726 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure. Consequently, among other things: (1) the creditor may collect from such Borrower
without first foreclosing on any real or personal property collateral pledged by the principal; and
(2) if the creditor forecloses on any real property collateral pledged by the principal: (x) the
amount of the Obligations may be reduced only by the price for which the collateral is sold at the
foreclosure sale, even if the collateral is worth more than the sale price and (y) the creditor may
collect from such Borrower even if the creditor, by foreclosing on the real property collateral,
has destroyed any right such Borrower may have to collect from the principal. This is an
unconditional and irrevocable waiver of any rights and defenses such Borrower may have because the
Obligations are secured by real property. Each Borrower also waives all rights and defenses arising
out of an election of remedies by the creditor, even though that election of remedies, such as a
nonjudicial foreclosure with respect to security for an Obligation, has destroyed such Borrower s
rights of subrogation and reimbursement against the principal by the operation of Section 580d of
the Code of Civil Procedure or otherwise; and even though that election of remedies by the
creditor, such as nonjudicial foreclosure with respect to security for an obligation of any other
guarantor of any of the Obligations, has destroyed such Borrower s rights of contribution against
such other Borrower or any other guarantor. No other provision of this  Section 5.10  shall be
construed as limiting the generality of any of the covenants and waivers set forth in this
paragraph.

5.10.5  Borrowers  Rights of Subrogation, Contribution, Etc.; Subordination of Other
Obligations . Each Borrower waives any claim, right or remedy, direct or indirect, that such
Borrower now has or may hereafter have against any other Borrower or any of its assets in
connection with this  Section 5.10  or the performance by such Borrower of its obligations hereunder,
in each case whether such claim, right or remedy arises in equity, under contract, by statute
(including under California Civil Code Section 2847, 2848 or 2849), under common law or otherwise
and including (a) any right of subrogation, reimbursement or indemnification that such Borrower now
has or may hereafter have against any other Borrower, (b) any right to enforce, or to participate
in, any claim, right or remedy that Agent or any Lender now has or may hereafter have against any
other Borrower and (c) any benefit of, and any right to participate in, any collateral or security
now or hereafter held by Agent or any Lender. In addition, until the Obligations shall have been
paid in full, the Commitments shall have terminated and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or
been cancelled, each Borrower shall withhold exercise of any right of contribution such Borrower
may have against any other Borrower. Each Borrower further agrees that, to the extent the waiver
or agreement to withhold the exercise of its rights of subrogation, reimbursement, indemnification
and contribution as set forth herein is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be void or
voidable for any reason, any rights of subrogation, reimbursement or indemnification such Borrower
may have against any other Borrower or against any collateral or security, and any rights of
contribution such Borrower may have against such other Borrower, shall be junior and subordinate to
any rights Agent or any Lender may have against such Borrower to all right, title and interest
Agent or any Lender may have in any such collateral or security, and to any right Agent or any
Lender may have against such other Borrower.

-42-

Any indebtedness of any other Borrower now or hereafter held by any Borrower is
subordinated in right of payment to the Obligations, and any such indebtedness of such other
Borrower to such Borrower collected or received by such Borrower after an Event of Default has
occurred and is continuing, and any amount paid to any Borrower on account of any subrogation,
reimbursement, indemnification or contribution rights referred to in the preceding paragraph when
all Obligations have not been paid in full, shall be held in trust for Agent and the Lenders and
shall forthwith be paid over to Agent for the benefit of the Lenders to be credited and applied
against the Obligations.

5.10.6  Extent of Liability; Contribution .

(a) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, each Borrower s liability under this
 Section 5.10  shall be limited to the greater of (i) all amounts for which such Borrower is
primarily liable, as described below, and (ii) such Borrower s Allocable Amount.

(b) If any Borrower makes a payment under this  Section 5.10  of any Obligations (other than
amounts for which such Borrower is primarily liable) (a   Guarantor Payment  ) that, taking
into account all other Guarantor Payments previously or concurrently made by any other Borrower,
exceeds the amount that such Borrower would otherwise have paid if each Borrower had paid the
aggregate Obligations satisfied by such Guarantor Payments in the same proportion that such
Borrower s Allocable Amount bore to the total Allocable Amounts of all Borrowers, then such
Borrower shall be entitled to receive contribution and indemnification payments from, and to be
reimbursed by, each other Borrower for the amount of such excess, pro rata based upon their
respective Allocable Amounts in effect immediately prior to such Guarantor Payment. The
  Allocable Amount   for any Borrower shall be the maximum amount that could then be
recovered from such Borrower under this  Section 5.10  without rendering such payment voidable or
avoidable under Section 548 of the Bankruptcy Code or under any applicable state fraudulent
transfer or conveyance act, or similar statute or common law.

(c) Nothing contained in this  Section 5.10  shall limit the liability of any Borrower to pay
Loans made directly or indirectly to that Borrower (including Loans advanced to any other Borrower
and then re-loaned or otherwise transferred to, or for the benefit of, such Borrower), LC
Obligations relating to Letters of Credit issued to support such Borrower s business, and all
accrued interest, fees, expenses and other related Obligations with respect thereto, for which such
Borrower shall be primarily liable for all purposes hereunder. Agent and Lenders shall have the
right, at any time in their discretion, to condition Loans and Letters of Credit upon a separate
calculation of borrowing availability for each Borrower and to restrict the disbursement and use of
such Loans and Letters of Credit to such Borrower.

5.10.7  Joint Enterprise . Each Borrower has requested that Agent and Lenders make this
credit facility available to Borrowers on a combined basis, in order to finance Borrowers  business
most efficiently and economically. Borrowers  business is a mutual and collective enterprise, and
Borrowers believe that consolidation of their credit facility will enhance the borrowing power of
each Borrower and ease the administration of their relationship with Lenders, all to the mutual
advantage of Borrowers. Borrowers acknowledge and agree that Agent s and Lenders  willingness to
extend credit to Borrowers and to administer the Collateral on a combined basis, as set forth
herein, is done solely as an accommodation to Borrowers and at Borrowers  request.

SECTION 6. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT 

6.1    Conditions Precedent to Initial Loans  . In addition to the conditions set forth in
 Section 6.2 , Lenders shall not be required to fund any requested Loan, issue any Letter of Credit,
or otherwise extend credit to Borrowers hereunder, until the date (  Closing Date  ) that
each of the following conditions has been satisfied:

-43-

(a) Revolver Notes shall have been executed by Borrowers and delivered to each Lender that
requests issuance of a Revolver Note. Each other Loan Document shall have been duly executed and
delivered to Agent by each of the signatories thereto, and each Obligor shall be in compliance with
all terms thereof.

(b)  Intentionally Omitted. 

(c) Agent shall have received duly executed agreements establishing each Dominion Account and
related lockbox, in form and substance, and with financial institutions, satisfactory to Agent.

(d) Agent shall have received certificates, in form and substance satisfactory to it, from a
knowledgeable Senior Officer of each Borrower certifying that, after giving effect to the initial
Loans and transactions hereunder, (i) such Borrower is Solvent; (ii) no Default or Event of Default
exists; (iii) the representations and warranties set forth in  Section 9  are true and correct; and
(iv) such Borrower has complied with all agreements and conditions to be satisfied by it under the
Loan Documents.

(e) Agent shall have received a certificate of a duly authorized officer of each Obligor,
certifying (i) that attached copies of such Obligor s Organic Documents are true and complete, and
in full force and effect, without amendment except as shown, (ii) that an attached copy of
resolutions authorizing execution and delivery of the Loan Documents is true and complete, and that
such resolutions are in full force and effect, were duly adopted, have not been amended, modified
or revoked, and constitute all resolutions adopted with respect to this credit facility, and (iii)
to the title, name and signature of each Person authorized to sign the Loan Documents. Agent may
conclusively rely on this certificate until it is otherwise notified by the applicable Obligor in
writing.

(f) Agent shall have received a written opinion of General Counsel of Borrowers, in form and
substance satisfactory to Agent.

(g) Agent shall have received copies of the charter documents of each Obligor, certified as
appropriate by the Secretary of State or another official of such Obligor s jurisdiction of
organization. Agent shall have received good standing certificates for each Obligor, issued by the
Secretary of State or other appropriate official of such Obligor s jurisdiction of organization and
each jurisdiction where such Obligor s conduct of business or ownership of Property necessitates
qualification.

(h) Agent shall have received copies of policies or certificates of insurance for the
insurance policies carried by Borrowers and their Subsidiaries, all in compliance with the Loan
Documents, outlining all material insurance coverage maintained by the Borrowers and their
Subsidiaries, including directors and officers insurance coverage and all insurance required to be
maintained pursuant to  Sections 8.6.2  and  10.1.7 . Agent, on behalf of Lenders, shall have been
named as additional insured, mortgagee and/or loss payee thereunder (other than any directors and
officers insurance and life insurance) to the extent required under  Sections 8.6.2  and  10.1.7 .

(i) Agent shall have completed its business, financial and legal due diligence of Obligors,
including a roll-forward of its previous field examination and completion of its collateral audit
with respect to Inventory and Accounts, with results satisfactory to Agent. Except as disclosed in
the Draft Financial Statements, no material adverse change in the financial condition of any
Obligor or in the quality, quantity or value of any Collateral shall have occurred since December
31, 2004.

(j) Borrowers shall have paid all fees and expenses to be paid to Agent and Lenders on the
Closing Date.

(k) Agent shall have received a Borrowing Base Certificate prepared as of March 24, 2006.
Upon giving effect to the initial funding of Loans and issuance of Letters of Credit, and the

 -44-

payment by Borrowers of all fees and expenses incurred in connection herewith as well as any
payables stretched beyond their customary payment practices, Availability shall be at least
$5,500,000.

(l) Borrowers shall have (a) repaid in full all outstanding Debt of Borrowers under the
Existing Credit Agreement and all other outstanding Debt of Borrowers (other than Permitted Debt
described in  Section 10.2.1 ), (b) terminated any commitments to lend or make other extensions of
credit thereunder (other than Permitted Debt described in  Section 10.2.1 ), (c) delivered to Agent
all documents or instruments necessary to release all Liens securing existing Debt or other
obligations of Borrowers thereunder (other than Permitted Debt described in  Section 10.2.1 ), and
(d) made arrangements satisfactory to Agent with respect to the cancellation of any letters of
credit outstanding thereunder (other than the Existing Letters of Credit) or the issuance of
Letters of Credit to support the obligations of Borrowers and their respective Subsidiaries with
respect thereto. Borrowers shall have paid all Attorney Costs of Agent to the extent invoiced prior
to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of Attorney Costs as shall constitute its
reasonable estimate of Attorney Costs incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing
proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude final settling of accounts
between Borrowers and Agent).

(m) Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that Borrowers shall have taken or
caused to be taken all such actions, executed and delivered or caused to be executed and delivered
all such agreements, documents and instruments, and made or caused to be made all such filings and
recordings that may be necessary or, in the opinion of Agent, desirable in order to create in favor
of Agent, for the benefit of Lenders, a valid and perfected first priority security interest in the
Collateral. Such actions shall include the following:

(i)  Schedules to Security Documents . Delivery to Agent of accurate and
complete schedules to all of the applicable Security Documents.

(ii)  Stock Certificates and Instruments . Delivery to Agent of (a) certificates
(which certificates shall be accompanied by irrevocable undated stock powers, duly endorsed
in blank and otherwise satisfactory in form and substance to Agent) representing all capital
stock pledged pursuant to the Security Documents, and (b) all promissory notes (including a
master intercompany note) or other instruments (duly endorsed, where appropriate, in a
manner satisfactory to Agent) evidencing any Collateral.

(iii)  Lien Searches and UCC Termination Statements . Delivery to Agent of (a)
the results of a recent search, by a Person satisfactory to Agent, of all effective UCC
financing statements and fixture filings and all judgment and tax lien filings which may
have been made with respect to any personal or mixed property of each Obligor, together with
copies of all such filings disclosed by such search, and (b) UCC termination statements duly
executed by all applicable Persons for filing in all applicable jurisdictions as may be
necessary to terminate any effective UCC financing statements or fixture filings disclosed
in such search (other than Permitted Liens).

(iv)  UCC Financing Statements and Fixture Filings . Delivery to Agent of
acknowledgements of all filings and recordations of UCC financing statements and, where
appropriate, fixture filings, duly executed by each applicable Obligor with respect to all
personal and mixed property Collateral of such Obligor, in all jurisdictions as may be
necessary or, in the opinion of Agent, desirable to perfect the security interests created
in such Collateral pursuant to the Security Documents.

(v)  Cash Management . Delivery to Agent of lock box agreements in form and
substance satisfactory to Agent and Deposit Account Control Agreements executed by each
Person that is a party thereto with respect to the Deposit Accounts listed therein.

-45-

(vi)  Securities Accounts . Delivery to Agent of Securities Account Control
Agreements, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent, executed by each Person that is a
party thereto with respect to each of the Securities Accounts of each applicable Borrower.

(n) Borrowers shall have delivered to Agent any Lien Waivers as may be reasonably required by
Agent.

(o) Borrowers shall have delivered an accurate copy of each Related Document, together with
any amendments, exhibits and schedules thereto.

(p) Each Obligors shall have obtained all Governmental Approvals and all consents of other
Persons, in each case that are necessary or advisable in connection with the transactions
contemplated by the Loan Documents and the continued operation of the business conducted by
Borrowers and their Subsidiaries in substantially the same manner as conducted prior to the Closing
Date. Each such Governmental Approval or consent shall be in full force and effect, except in a
case where the failure to obtain or maintain a Governmental Approval or consent, either
individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse
Effect. All applicable waiting periods shall have expired without any action being taken or
threatened by any competent authority that would restrain, prevent or otherwise impose adverse
conditions on the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents. No action, request for stay,
petition for review or rehearing, reconsideration, or appeal with respect to any of the foregoing
shall be pending, and the time for any applicable Governmental Authority to take action to set
aside its consent on its own motion shall have expired.

(q) There shall not be pending or, to the knowledge of any Senior Officer of any Borrower,
threatened, any action, suit, proceeding, governmental investigation or arbitration against or
affecting Borrowers or any of their Subsidiaries or any property of Borrowers or any of their
Subsidiaries that has not been disclosed to Agent by Borrowers in writing prior to the execution of
this Agreement, and there shall have occurred no development not so disclosed in any such action,
suit, proceeding, governmental investigation or arbitration so disclosed, that, in either event, in
the opinion of Agent could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and no
injunction or other restraining order shall have been issued and no hearing to cause an injunction
or other restraining order to be issued shall be pending or noticed with respect to any action,
suit or proceeding seeking to enjoin or otherwise prevent the consummation of, or to recover any
damages or obtain relief as a result of, the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the
making of Revolver Loans hereunder.

(r) Agent shall have received and be satisfied with such other information as Agent may
reasonably request.

6.2    Conditions Precedent to All Credit Extensions  . Agent, Issuing Bank and Lenders
shall not be required to fund any Loans, arrange for issuance of any Letters of Credit or grant any
other accommodation to or for the benefit of Borrowers, unless the following conditions are
satisfied:

(a) No Default or Event of Default shall exist at the time of, or result from, such funding,
issuance or grant;

(b) The representations and warranties of each Obligor in the Loan Documents shall be true and
correct on the date of, and upon giving effect to, such funding, issuance or grant (except for
representations and warranties that expressly relate to an earlier date);

(c) All conditions precedent in any other Loan Document shall be satisfied;

(d) No event shall have occurred or circumstance exist that has or could reasonably be
expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and

-46-

(e) With respect to issuance of a Letter of Credit, the LC Conditions shall be satisfied.

Each request (or deemed request) by Borrowers for funding of a Loan, issuance of a Letter of
Credit or grant of an accommodation shall constitute a representation by Borrowers that the
foregoing conditions are satisfied on the date of such request and on the date of such funding,
issuance or grant. As an additional condition to any funding, issuance or grant, Agent shall have
received such other information, documents, instruments and agreements as it deems appropriate in
connection therewith.

6.3    Limited Waiver of Conditions Precedent  . If Agent, Issuing Bank or Lenders fund
any Loans, arrange for issuance of any Letters of Credit or grant any other accommodation when any
conditions precedent are not satisfied (regardless of whether the lack of satisfaction was known or
unknown at the time), it shall not operate as a waiver of (a) the right of Agent, Issuing Bank and
Lenders to insist upon satisfaction of all conditions precedent with respect to any subsequent
funding, issuance or grant; nor (b) any Default or Event of Default due to such failure of
conditions or otherwise.

SECTION 7. COLLATERAL 

7.1    Grant of Security Interest  . To secure the prompt payment and performance of all
Obligations, each Borrower hereby grants to Agent, for the benefit of Secured Parties, a continuing
security interest in and Lien upon all personal Property of such Borrower, including all of the
following Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, and wherever located:

(a) all Accounts;

(b) all Chattel Paper, including electronic chattel paper;

(c) all Commercial Tort Claims;

(d) all Deposit Accounts and Securities Accounts;

(e) all Documents;

(f) all General Intangibles, including Payment Intangibles, Software and Intellectual
Property;

(g) all Goods, including Inventory, Equipment and fixtures;

(h) all Instruments;

(i) all Investment Property;

(j) all Letter-of-Credit Rights;

(k) all Supporting Obligations;

(l) all monies, whether or not in the possession or under the control of Agent, a Lender, or a
bailee or Affiliate of Agent or a Lender, including any Cash Collateral;

(m) all accessions to, substitutions for, and all replacements, products, and cash and
non-cash proceeds of the foregoing, including proceeds of and unearned premiums with respect to
insurance policies, and claims against any Person for loss, damage or destruction of any
Collateral; and

-47-

(n) all books and records (including customer lists, files, correspondence, tapes, computer
programs, print-outs and computer records) pertaining to the foregoing.

7.2    Lien on Deposit Accounts; Cash Collateral  .

7.2.1  Deposit Accounts and Securities Accounts . To further secure the prompt payment
and performance of all Obligations, each Borrower hereby grants to Agent, for the benefit of
Secured Parties, a continuing security interest in and Lien upon all of such Borrower s right,
title and interest in and to each Deposit Account and Securities Account of such Borrower and any
deposits or other sums at any time credited to any such Deposit Account or Securities Account,
including any sums in any blocked or lockbox accounts or in any accounts into which such sums are
swept. Each Borrower authorizes and directs each bank or other depository to deliver to Agent, on
a daily basis, all balances in each Deposit Account maintained by such Borrower with such
depository for application to the Obligations then outstanding. Each Borrower irrevocably appoints
Agent as such Borrower s attorney-in-fact to collect such balances to the extent any such delivery
is not so made.

7.2.2  Cash Collateral . Any Cash Collateral may be invested, in Agent s discretion, in
Cash Equivalents, but Agent shall have no duty to do so, regardless of any agreement, understanding
or course of dealing with any Borrower, and shall have no responsibility for any investment or
loss. Each Borrower hereby grants to Agent, for the benefit of Secured Parties, a security
interest in all Cash Collateral held from time to time and all proceeds thereof, as security for
the Obligations, whether such Cash Collateral is held in the Cash Collateral Account or elsewhere.
Agent may apply Cash Collateral to the payment of any Obligations, in such order as Agent may
elect, as they become due and payable. The Cash Collateral Account and all Cash Collateral shall
be under the sole dominion and control of Agent. No Borrower or other Person claiming through or
on behalf of any Borrower shall have any right to any Cash Collateral, until Full Payment of all
Obligations.

7.3    Real Estate Collateral  . The Obligations shall also be secured by Mortgages upon
all Real Estate owned by Borrowers, including the Real Estate listed on  Schedule 7.3 . The
Mortgages shall be duly recorded, at Borrowers  expense, in each office where such recording is
required to constitute a fully perfected Lien on the Real Estate covered thereby. If any Borrower
acquires Real Estate hereafter, Borrowers shall, within 30 days, execute, deliver and record a
Mortgage sufficient to create a first priority Lien in favor of Agent on such Real Estate, and
shall deliver all Related Real Estate Documents within such 30 days.

7.4    Other Collateral  .

7.4.1  Commercial Tort Claims . Borrowers shall promptly notify Agent in writing if any
Borrower has a Commercial Tort Claim (other than, as long as no Default or Event of Default exists,
a Commercial Tort Claim for less than $250,000) and, upon Agent s request, shall promptly execute
such documents and take such actions as Agent deems appropriate to confer upon Agent (for the
benefit of Secured Parties) a duly perfected, first priority Lien upon such claim.

7.4.2  Certain After-Acquired Collateral . Borrowers shall promptly notify Agent in
writing if, after the Closing Date, any Borrower obtains any interest in any Collateral consisting
of Deposit Accounts, Chattel Paper, Documents, Instruments, Intellectual Property, Investment
Property or Letter-of-Credit Rights and, upon Agent s request, shall promptly execute such
documents and take such actions as Agent deems appropriate to effect Agent s duly perfected, first
priority Lien upon such Collateral, including obtaining any appropriate possession, control
agreement or Lien Waiver. If any Collateral is in the possession of a third party, at Agent s
request, Borrowers shall obtain an acknowledgment that such third party holds the Collateral for
the benefit of Agent.

-48-

7.5   No Assumption of Liability  .  The Lien on Collateral granted hereunder is given as
security only and shall not subject Agent or any Lender to, or in any way modify, any obligation or
liability of Borrowers relating to any Collateral.

7.6   Further Assurances . Promptly upon request, Borrowers shall deliver such
instruments, assignments, title certificates, or other documents or agreements, and shall take such
actions, as Agent deems appropriate under Applicable Law to evidence or perfect its Lien on any
Collateral, or otherwise to give effect to the intent of this Agreement. Each Borrower authorizes
Agent to file any financing statement that indicates the Collateral as  all assets  or  all
personal property  of such Borrower, or words to similar effect, and ratifies any action taken by
Agent before the Closing Date to effect or perfect its Lien on any Collateral.

7.7   Foreign Subsidiary Stock . Notwithstanding  Section 7.1 , the Collateral shall
include only 65% of the voting stock of any Foreign Subsidiary.

SECTION 8. COLLATERAL ADMINISTRATION 

8.1    Borrowing Base Certificates  . Unless extended in writing by Agent in its sole
discretion, by Wednesday (or, if the preceding Monday or Friday is not a Business Day, then
Thursday) of each week, Borrowers shall deliver to Agent (and Agent shall promptly deliver same to
Lenders) a Borrowing Base Certificate prepared as of the close of business of the previous week,
with such supporting schedules and at such other times as Agent may request. All calculations of
Availability in any Borrowing Base Certificate shall originally be made by Borrowers and certified
by a Senior Officer, provided that Agent may from time to time review and adjust any such
calculation (a) to reflect its reasonable estimate of declines in value of any Collateral, due to
collections received in the Dominion Account or otherwise; (b) to adjust advance rates to reflect
changes in dilution, quality, mix and other factors affecting Collateral; and (c) to the extent the
calculation is not made in accordance with this Agreement or does not accurately reflect the
Availability Reserve.

8.2    Administration of Accounts  .

8.2.1  Records and Schedules of Accounts . Each Borrower shall keep accurate and
complete records of its Accounts, including all payments and collections thereon, and shall submit
to Agent, on such periodic basis as Agent may request (and in any event no less frequently than on
a weekly basis) a sales and collections report, in form satisfactory to Agent. Each Borrower shall
also provide to Agent, on or before Wednesday (or, if the preceding Monday or Friday is not a
Business Day, then Thursday) of each week (unless extended in writing by Agent in its sole
discretion), a detailed aged trial balance of all Accounts as of the end of the preceding week,
specifying each Account s Account Debtor name and address, amount, invoice date and due date,
showing any discount, allowance, credit, authorized return or dispute, and including such proof of
delivery, copies of invoices and invoice registers, copies of related documents, repayment
histories, status reports and other information as Agent may reasonably request. If Accounts in an
aggregate face amount of $250,000 or more cease to be Eligible Accounts, Borrowers shall notify
Agent of such occurrence promptly (and in any event within one Business Day) after any Borrower has
knowledge thereof.

8.2.2  Taxes . If an Account of any Borrower includes a charge for any Taxes, Agent is
authorized, in its discretion, to pay the amount thereof to the proper taxing authority for the
account of such Borrower and to charge Borrowers therefor; provided, however, that neither Agent
nor Lenders shall be liable for any Taxes that may be due from Borrowers or with respect to any
Collateral.

8.2.3  Account Verification . Whether or not a Default or Event of Default exists,
Agent shall have the right at any time, in the name of Agent, any designee of Agent or any Borrower
to verify the validity, amount or any other matter relating to any Accounts of Borrowers by mail,
telephone or

 -49-

otherwise. Borrowers shall cooperate fully with Agent in an effort to facilitate and promptly
conclude any such verification process.

8.2.4  Maintenance of Dominion Account . Borrowers shall maintain Dominion Accounts
pursuant to lockbox or other arrangements acceptable to Agent. Borrowers shall obtain an agreement
(in form and substance satisfactory to Agent) from each lockbox servicer and Dominion Account bank,
establishing Agent s control over and Lien in the lockbox or Dominion Account, requiring immediate
deposit of all remittances received in the lockbox to a Dominion Account and, if such Dominion
Account is not maintained with Bank of America, requiring immediate transfer of all funds in the
Dominion Account to a Dominion Account maintained with Bank of America, and waiving offset rights
of such servicer or bank against any funds in the lockbox or Dominion Account, except offset rights
for customary administrative charges. Neither Agent nor Lenders assume any responsibility to
Borrowers for any lockbox arrangement or Dominion Account, including any claim of accord and
satisfaction or release with respect to any Payment Items accepted by any bank.

8.2.5  Proceeds of Collateral . Borrowers shall request in writing and otherwise take
all reasonable steps to ensure that all payments on Accounts or otherwise relating to Collateral
are made directly to a Dominion Account (or a lockbox relating to a Dominion Account). If any
Borrower or Subsidiary receives cash or Payment Items with respect to any Collateral, it shall hold
same in trust for Agent and promptly (not later than the next Business Day) deposit same into a
Dominion Account.

8.3    Administration of Inventory  .

8.3.1  Records and Reports of Inventory . Each Borrower shall keep accurate and
complete records of its Inventory, including costs and daily withdrawals and additions, and shall
submit to Agent inventory reports in form satisfactory to Agent, on such periodic basis as Agent
may request (and in any event no less frequently than on a monthly basis). Each Borrower shall
conduct a physical inventory at least once per calendar year (and on a more frequent basis if
requested by Agent when an Event of Default exists) and periodic cycle counts consistent with
historical practices, and shall provide to Agent a report based on each such inventory and count
promptly upon completion thereof, together with such supporting information as Agent may request.
Agent may participate in and observe each inventory or physical count.

8.3.2  Returns of Inventory . During Inventory Borrowing Period, no Borrower shall
return any Inventory to a supplier, vendor or other Person, whether for cash, credit or otherwise,
unless (a) such return is in the Ordinary Course of Business; (b) no Default, Event of Default or
Overadvance exists or would result therefrom; (c) Agent is promptly notified if the aggregate Value
of all Inventory returned in any month exceeds $100,000; and (d) any payment received by a Borrower
for a return is promptly remitted to Agent for application to the Obligations.

8.3.3  Acquisition, Sale and Maintenance . No Borrower shall acquire or accept any
Inventory on consignment or approval, and shall take all steps to assure that all Inventory is
produced in accordance with Applicable Law, including the FLSA. No Borrower shall sell any
Inventory on consignment or approval or any other basis under which the customer may return or
require a Borrower to repurchase such Inventory (other than customary right of customers to return
merchandise in the Ordinary Course of Business). Borrowers shall use, store and maintain all
Inventory with reasonable care and caution, in accordance with applicable standards of any
insurance and in conformity with all Applicable Law, and shall make current rent payments (within
applicable grace periods provided for in leases) at all locations where any Collateral is located.

-50-

8.4    Administration of Equipment  .

8.4.1  Records and Schedules of Equipment . Each Borrower shall keep accurate and
complete records of its Equipment, including kind, quality, quantity, cost, acquisitions and
dispositions thereof, and shall submit to Agent, on such periodic basis as Agent may request, a
current schedule thereof, in form satisfactory to Agent. Promptly upon request, Borrowers shall
deliver to Agent evidence of their ownership or interests in any Equipment.

8.4.2  Dispositions of Equipment . No Borrower shall sell, lease or otherwise dispose
of any Equipment, without the prior written consent of Agent, other than (a) a Permitted Asset
Disposition; and (b) replacement of Equipment that is worn, damaged or obsolete with Equipment of
like function and value, if the replacement Equipment is acquired substantially contemporaneously
with such disposition and is free of Liens other than Purchase Money Liens securing Permitted
Purchase Money Debt.

8.4.3  Condition of Equipment . The Equipment is in good operating condition and
repair, and all necessary replacements and repairs have been made so that the value and operating
efficiency of the Equipment is preserved at all times, reasonable wear and tear excepted. Each
Borrower shall ensure that the Equipment is mechanically and structurally sound, and capable of
performing the functions for which it was designed, in accordance with the manufacturer s published
and recommended specifications. No Borrower shall permit any Equipment to become affixed to real
Property unless any landlord or mortgagee delivers a Lien Waiver or similar instrument.

8.5    Administration of Deposit Accounts; Securities Accounts  .  Schedule 8.5  sets forth
all Deposit Accounts and Securities Accounts maintained by Borrowers, including all Dominion
Accounts. Each Borrower shall take all actions necessary to establish Agent s control of each such
Deposit Account and such Securities Account (other than an account exclusively used for payroll,
payroll taxes or employee benefits, or an account containing not more that $10,000 at any time).
Each Borrower shall be the sole account holder of each Deposit Account and Securities Account and
shall not allow any other Person (other than Agent) to have control over a Deposit Account or a
Securities Account or any Property deposited therein. Each Borrower shall promptly notify Agent of
any opening or closing of a Deposit Account or a Securities Account and, with the consent of Agent,
will amend  Schedule 8.5  to reflect same.

8.6    General Provisions  .

8.6.1  Location of Collateral . All tangible items of Collateral, other than Inventory
in transit, shall at all times be kept by Borrowers at the business locations set forth in  Schedule
8.6.1 , except that Borrowers may (a) make sales or other dispositions of Collateral in accordance
with  Section 10.2.6 ; and (b) move Collateral to another location in the United States, upon 30
Business Days prior written notice to Agent.

8.6.2  Insurance of Collateral; Condemnation Proceeds .

(a) Each Borrower shall maintain insurance with respect to the Collateral, covering casualty,
hazard, public liability, theft, malicious mischief, and such other risks, in such amounts, with
such endorsements, and with such insurers (rated A  or better by A.M. Best Rating Guide) as are
satisfactory to Agent. All proceeds under each policy shall be payable to Agent. From time to
time upon request, Borrowers shall deliver to Agent the originals or certified copies of its
insurance policies. Unless Agent shall agree otherwise, each policy shall include satisfactory
endorsements (i) showing Agent as sole loss payee or additional insured, as appropriate; (ii)
requiring 30 days prior written notice to Agent in the event of cancellation of the policy for any
reason whatsoever; and (iii) specifying that the interest of Agent shall not be impaired or
invalidated by any act or neglect of any Borrower or the owner of the Property, nor by the
occupation of the premises for purposes more hazardous than are permitted by the policy. If any
Borrower fails to provide and pay for such insurance, Agent may, at its option, but shall

 -51-

not be required to, procure the insurance and charge Borrowers therefor. Each Borrower agrees
to deliver to Agent, promptly as rendered, copies of all reports made to insurance companies.
While no Event of Default exists, Borrowers may settle, adjust or compromise any insurance claim,
as long as the proceeds are delivered to Agent. If an Event of Default exists, only Agent shall be
authorized to settle, adjust and compromise such claims.

(b) Any proceeds of insurance (other than proceeds from workers  compensation or D O insurance
or proceeds related to a Permitted Lien which are expressly required by the terms of the document
under which such Permitted Lien was created to be used to repay the Debt secured by such Permitted
Lien upon the occurrence of the event which resulted in such proceeds (so long as such Debt is
permanently reduced thereby)) and any awards arising from condemnation of any Collateral shall be
deposited into the Dominion Account. Any such proceeds or awards that relate to Inventory shall be
applied to payment of the Revolver Loans, and then to any other Obligations outstanding. Subject
to clause (c) below, any proceeds or awards that relate to Equipment or Real Estate shall be
applied first to Revolver Loans and then to other Obligations.

(c) If requested by Borrowers in writing within 15 days after Agent s receipt of any insurance
proceeds or condemnation awards relating to any loss or destruction of Equipment or Real Estate,
Borrowers may use such proceeds or awards to repair or replace such Equipment or Real Estate (and
until so used, the proceeds shall be held by Agent as Cash Collateral) as long as (i) no Default or
Event of Default exists; (ii) such repair or replacement is promptly undertaken and concluded, in
accordance with plans satisfactory to Agent; (iii) replacement buildings are constructed on the
sites of the original casualties and are of comparable size, quality and utility to the destroyed
buildings; (iv) the repaired or replaced Property is free of Liens, other than Permitted Liens that
are not Purchase Money Liens; (v) Borrowers comply with disbursement procedures for such repair or
replacement as Agent may reasonably require; and (vi) the aggregate amount of such proceeds or
awards from any single casualty or condemnation does not exceed $250,000.

8.6.3  Protection of Collateral . All expenses of protecting, storing, warehousing,
insuring, handling, maintaining and shipping any Collateral, all Taxes payable with respect to any
Collateral (including any sale thereof), and all other payments required to be made by Agent to any
Person to realize upon any Collateral, shall be borne and paid by Borrowers. Agent shall not be
liable or responsible in any way for the safekeeping of any Collateral, for any loss or damage
thereto (except for reasonable care in its custody while Collateral is in Agent s actual
possession), for any diminution in the value thereof, or for any act or default of any
warehouseman, carrier, forwarding agency or other Person whatsoever, but the same shall be at
Borrowers  sole risk.

8.6.4  Defense of Title to Collateral . Each Borrower shall at all times defend its
title to Collateral and Agent s Liens therein against all Persons, claims and demands whatsoever,
except Permitted Liens.

8.7   Power of Attorney . Each Borrower hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints
Agent (and all Persons designated by Agent) as such Borrower s true and lawful attorney (and
agent-in-fact) for the purposes provided in this Section. Agent, or Agent s designee, may, without
notice and in either its or a Borrower s name, but at the cost and expense of Borrowers:

(a) Endorse a Borrower s name on any Payment Item or other proceeds of Collateral (including
proceeds of insurance) that come into Agent s possession or control; and

(b) During an Event of Default, (i) notify any Account Debtors of the assignment of their
Accounts, demand and enforce payment of Accounts, by legal proceedings or otherwise, and generally
exercise any rights and remedies with respect to Accounts; (ii) settle, adjust, modify, compromise,
discharge or release any Accounts or other Collateral, or any legal proceedings brought to

 -52-

collect Accounts or Collateral; (iii) sell or assign any Accounts and other Collateral upon
such terms, for such amounts and at such times as Agent deems advisable; (iv) take control, in any
manner, of any proceeds of Collateral; (v) prepare, file and sign a Borrower s name to a proof of
claim or other document in a bankruptcy of an Account Debtor, or to any notice, assignment or
satisfaction of Lien or similar document; (vi) receive, open and dispose of mail addressed to a
Borrower, and notify postal authorities to change the address for delivery thereof to such address
as Agent may designate; (vii) endorse any Chattel Paper, Document, Instrument, invoice, freight
bill, bill of lading, or similar document or agreement relating to any Accounts, Inventory or other
Collateral; (viii) use a Borrower s stationery and sign its name to verifications of Accounts and
notices to Account Debtors; (ix) use the information recorded on or contained in any data
processing equipment and computer hardware and software relating to any Collateral; (x) make and
adjust claims under policies of insurance; (xi) take any action as may be necessary or appropriate
to obtain payment under any letter of credit or banker s acceptance for which a Borrower is a
beneficiary; and (xii) take all other actions as Agent deems appropriate to fulfill any Borrower s
obligations under the Loan Documents.

SECTION 9. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES 

9.1    General Representations and Warranties  . To induce Agent and Lenders to enter into
this Agreement and to make available the Revolver Commitments, Loans and Letters of Credit, each
Borrower represents and warrants that:

9.1.1  Existence and Qualification; Power . Each Borrower and its Subsidiaries is a
corporation, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the state of
its organization as specified in  Schedule 9.1.4  annexed hereto, has the corporate power and
authority to own and operate its properties, to lease the properties it operates and to conduct its
business, is duly qualified and in good standing under the Applicable Laws of each jurisdiction
where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such
qualification, except to the extent that that lack of good standing in any jurisdiction does not
have a Material Adverse Effect.

9.1.2  Power; Authority; Enforceable Obligations .

(a) Each Obligor has the corporate power and authority to make, deliver and perform each Loan
Document to which it is a party and each Borrower has power and authority to borrow hereunder and
has taken all necessary action to authorize the borrowings on the terms and conditions of this
Agreement and each Obligor has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and
performance of the Loan Documents to which it is a party.

(b) No Governmental Approval is required in connection with the Borrowings hereunder or with
the execution, delivery, performance, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any of the
other Loan Documents.

(c) The Loan Documents have been duly executed and delivered by each Obligor which is a party
thereto, and constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of each Obligor party thereto,
enforceable against each such Obligor in accordance with their respective terms, except as
enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws
relating to or limiting creditors  rights generally or by equitable principles.

9.1.3  No Legal Bar . The execution, delivery, and performance by each Obligor of the
Loan Documents to which it is a party and compliance with the provisions thereof have been duly
authorized by all requisite action on the part of such Obligor and do not and will not (i) violate
or conflict with, or result in a breach of, or require any consent under (x) any Organic Documents
or charter documents of such Obligor or any of its Subsidiaries, (y) any Applicable Laws, rules, or
regulations or any order, writ, injunction, or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator
applicable to such

 -53-

Obligor, or (z) any material Contractual Obligation of such Obligor or any of its Subsidiaries
or by which any of them or any of their property is bound or subject, (ii) constitute a default
under any such Contractual Obligation, or (iii) result in, or require, the creation or imposition
of any Lien on any of the properties of such Obligor or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any
Liens created under any of the Loan Documents in favor of the Agent on behalf of Lenders).

9.1.4  Capital Structure .  Schedule 9.1.4  shows, for each Borrower and Subsidiary, its
name, its jurisdiction of organization, its authorized and issued Equity Interests, the holders of
its Equity Interests (other than EMAK), and all agreements binding on such holders with respect to
their Equity Interests. Each Borrower and Subsidiary has good title to its Equity Interests in its
Subsidiaries, subject only to Agent s Lien, and all such Equity Interests are duly issued, fully
paid and non-assessable none of such Equity Interest constitute Margin Stock. There are no
outstanding options to purchase, warrants, subscription rights, agreements to issue or sell,
convertible interests, phantom rights or powers of attorney relating to any Equity Interests of any
Borrower or Subsidiary (other than EMAK). As of the Closing date, no Borrower or Subsidiary has
any equity investment in any other Person other than specifically disclosed in  Schedule 9.1.4 .

9.1.5  Corporate Names; Locations . During the five years preceding the Closing Date,
except as shown on  Schedule 9.1.5 , no Borrower or Subsidiary has been known as or used any
corporate, fictitious or trade names, has been the surviving corporation of a merger or
combination, or has acquired any substantial part of the assets of any Person. The chief executive
offices and other places of business of Borrowers and Subsidiaries are shown on  Schedule 8.6.1 .
During the five years preceding the Closing Date, no Borrower or Subsidiary has had any other
office or place of business.

9.1.6  Title to Properties; Priority of Liens . Each Borrower and Subsidiary has good
and marketable title to (or valid leasehold interests in) all of its Real Estate, and good title to
all of its personal Property, including all Property reflected in any financial statements
delivered to Agent or Lenders, in each case free of Liens except Permitted Liens. Each Borrower
and Subsidiary has paid and discharged all lawful claims that, if unpaid, could become a Lien on
its Properties, other than Permitted Liens. All Liens of Agent in the Collateral are duly
perfected, first priority Liens, subject only to Permitted Liens that are expressly allowed to have
priority over Agent s Liens. As of the Closing Date,  Schedule 7.3  annexed hereto contains a true,
accurate and complete list of (i) all fee Real Estate owned by any Obligor, and (ii) all leases,
subleases or assignments of leases (together with all amendments, modifications, supplements,
renewals or extensions of any thereof) affecting each Real Estate of any Obligor, regardless of
whether such Obligor is the landlord or tenant (whether directly or as an assignee or successor in
interest) under such lease, sublease or assignment.

9.1.7  Accounts . Agent may rely, in determining which Accounts are Eligible Accounts,
on all statements and representations made by Borrowers with respect thereto. Borrowers warrant,
with respect to each Account at the time it is shown as an Eligible Account in a Borrowing Base
Certificate, that:

(a) it is genuine and in all respects what it purports to be, and is not evidenced by a
judgment;

(b) it arises out of a completed, bona fide sale and delivery of goods or rendition of
services in the Ordinary Course of Business, and substantially in accordance with any purchase
order, contract or other document relating thereto;

(c) it is for a sum certain, maturing as stated in the invoice covering such sale or rendition
of services, a copy of which has been furnished or is available to Agent on request;

-54-

(d) it is not subject to any offset, Lien (other than Agent s Lien), deduction, defense,
dispute, counterclaim or other adverse condition except as arising in the Ordinary Course of
Business and disclosed to Agent; and it is absolutely owing by the Account Debtor, without
contingency in any respect;

(e) no purchase order, agreement, document or Applicable Law restricts assignment of the
Account to Agent (regardless of whether, under the UCC, the restriction is ineffective);

(f) no extension, compromise, settlement, modification, credit, deduction or return has been
authorized with respect to the Account, except discounts or allowances granted in the Ordinary
Course of Business for prompt payment that are reflected on the face of the invoice related thereto
and in the reports submitted to Agent hereunder; and

(g) to the best of Borrowers  knowledge, (i) there are no facts or circumstances that are
reasonably likely to impair the enforceability or collectibility of such Account; (ii) the Account
Debtor had the capacity to contract when the Account arose, continues to meet the applicable
Borrower s customary credit standards, is Solvent, is not contemplating or subject to an Insolvency
Proceeding, and has not failed, or suspended or ceased doing business; and (iii) there are no
proceedings or actions threatened or pending against any Account Debtor that could reasonably be
expected to have a material adverse effect on the Account Debtor s financial condition.

9.1.8  Financial Statements . The consolidated and consolidating balance sheets, and
related statements of income, cash flow and shareholder s equity, of Borrowers and Subsidiaries
that have been and are hereafter delivered to Agent and Lenders, are prepared in accordance with
GAAP, and fairly present the financial positions and results of operations of Borrowers and
Subsidiaries at the dates and for the periods indicated. All projections delivered from time to
time to Agent and Lenders have been prepared in good faith, based on reasonable assumptions in
light of the circumstances at such time. Except as disclosed in the Draft Financial Statements
attached hereto as  Schedule 9.1.8 , since December 31, 2004, there has been no change in the
condition, financial or otherwise, of any Borrower or Subsidiary that could reasonably be expected
to have a Material Adverse Effect. No financial statement delivered to Agent or Lenders at any
time contains any untrue statement of a material fact, nor fails to disclose any material fact
necessary to make such statement not materially misleading. Each of (i) EMAK, (ii) any other
Borrower that borrows directly hereunder, and (iii) EMAK and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated
basis is Solvent.

9.1.9  Surety Obligations . No Borrower or Subsidiary is obligated as surety or
indemnitor under any bond or other contract that assures payment or performance of any obligation
of any Person, except as permitted hereunder.

9.1.10  Taxes . Each Borrower and Subsidiary has filed all federal, state and local tax
returns and other reports that it is required by law to file, and has paid, or made provision for
the payment of, all Taxes upon it, its income and its Properties that are due and payable, except
to the extent being Properly Contested. The provision for Taxes on the books of each Borrower and
Subsidiary is adequate for all years not closed by applicable statutes, and for its current Fiscal
Year. No Obligor is a  foreign person  within the meaning of Section 1445(f)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the related Treasury Department regulations, including
temporary regulations.

9.1.11  Brokers . There are no brokerage commissions, finder s fees or investment
banking fees payable in connection with any transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents, and
each Borrower hereby indemnifies Agent and Lenders against, and agrees that it will hold Agent and
Lenders harmless from, any claim, demand or liability for any such brokerage commissions, lender s
fees or investment banking fees alleged to have been incurred in connection herewith and therewith
and any expense including lease fees, expense and disbursements of counsel arising in connection
with any such claim, demand or liability.

-55-

9.1.12  Intellectual Property . Each Borrower and Subsidiary owns or has the lawful
right to use all Intellectual Property necessary for the conduct of its business, without conflict
with any rights of others. There is no pending or, to any Borrower s knowledge, threatened
Intellectual Property Claim with respect to any Borrower, any Subsidiary or any of their Property
(including any Intellectual Property). Except as disclosed on  Schedule 9.1.12 , no Borrower or
Subsidiary pays or owes any Royalty or other compensation to any Person with respect to any
Intellectual Property. All Intellectual Property owned, used or licensed by, or otherwise subject
to any interests of, any Borrower or Subsidiary is shown on  Schedule 9.1.12 . To the knowledge of
any Borrower, the use of the Intellectual Property by Borrowers and Subsidiaries does not infringe
on the rights of any Person, except for such claims and infringements that, in the aggregate, could
not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.

9.1.13  Governmental Approvals . Each Borrower and Subsidiary has, is in compliance
with, and is in good standing with respect to, all Governmental Approvals necessary to conduct its
business and to own, lease and operate its Properties. All necessary import, export or other
licenses, permits or certificates for the import or handling of any goods or other Collateral have
been procured and are in effect, and Borrowers and Subsidiaries have complied with all foreign and
domestic laws with respect to the shipment and importation of any goods or Collateral, except where
noncompliance could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

9.1.14  Compliance with Laws . Each Borrower and Subsidiary has duly complied, and its
Properties and business operations are in compliance, in all material respects with all Applicable
Law, except where noncompliance could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
There have been no citations, notices or orders of material noncompliance issued to any Borrower
or Subsidiary under any Applicable Law. No Inventory has been produced in violation of the FLSA.

9.1.15  Compliance with Environmental Laws . Except as disclosed on  Schedule 9.1.15 , no
Borrower s or Subsidiary s past or present operations, Real Estate or other Properties are subject
to any federal, state or local investigation to determine whether any remedial action is needed to
address any environmental pollution, hazardous material or environmental clean-up. No Borrower or
Subsidiary has received any Environmental Notice. No Borrower or Subsidiary has any contingent
liability with respect to any Environmental Release, environmental pollution or hazardous material
on any Real Estate now or previously owned, leased or operated by it. The representations and
warranties contained in the Environmental Agreement (if any) are true and correct on the Closing
Date.

9.1.16  Insurance . The properties of each Borrower and their Subsidiaries are insured
with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of any Borrower, in such
amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies
engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where such Borrower or
such Subsidiary operates, and all other insurance required to be maintained pursuant to  Section
10.1.7 .

9.1.17  Burdensome Contracts . No Borrower or Subsidiary is a party or subject to any
contract, agreement or charter restriction that could reasonably be expected to have a Material
Adverse Effect. No Borrower or Subsidiary is party or subject to any Restrictive Agreement, except
as shown on  Schedule 9.1.17 , none of which prohibit the execution or delivery of any Loan Documents
by an Obligor nor the performance by an Obligor of any obligations thereunder.

9.1.18  Litigation . Except as shown on  Schedule 9.1.18 , there are no proceedings or
investigations pending or, to any Borrower s knowledge, threatened against any Borrower or
Subsidiary, or any of their businesses, operations, Properties, prospects or conditions, that (a)
relate to any Loan Documents or transactions contemplated thereby; or (b) could reasonably be
expected to have a Material Adverse Effect if determined adversely to any Borrower or Subsidiary.
No Borrower or Subsidiary is in default with respect to any order, injunction or judgment of any
Governmental Authority.

-56-

9.1.19  No Defaults . To the knowledge of Borrowers, no event or circumstance has
occurred or exists that constitutes a Default or Event of Default. No Borrower or Subsidiary is in
default, and no event or circumstance has occurred or exists that with the passage of time or
giving of notice would constitute a default, under any Material Contract or any other Related
Document or in the payment of any Borrowed Money. To the knowledge of Borrowers, there is no basis
upon which any party (other than a Borrower or Subsidiary) could terminate a Material Contract
prior to its scheduled termination date.

9.1.20  ERISA . Except as disclosed on  Schedule 9.1.20 , no Borrower or Subsidiary has
any Multiemployer Plan or Foreign Plan. Each Borrower and Subsidiary is in full compliance with
the requirements of all Applicable Law, including ERISA, relating to each Multiemployer Plan and
Foreign Plan. No fact or situation exists that could reasonably be expected to result in a
Material Adverse Effect in connection with any Multiemployer Plan or Foreign Plan. No Borrower or
Subsidiary has any withdrawal liability in connection with a Multiemployer Plan or Foreign Plan.
All employer and employee contributions to Foreign Plans, to the extent required by law or the
terms of such plans, have been made or accrued in accordance with normal accounting principles.
The fair market value of the assets of each funded Foreign Plan, the liability of each insurer for
any Foreign Plan funded through insurance and/or the book reserve established for each Foreign
Plan, together with any accrued contributions, are sufficient to provide the accrued benefit
obligations of all participants in such plans according to the actuarial assumptions and valuations
most recently used to account for such obligations in accordance with applicable generally accepted
accounting principles. Each Foreign Plan required to be registered has been registered and is
maintained in good standing with all applicable regulatory authorities.

9.1.21  Trade Relations . There exists no actual or threatened termination, limitation
or modification of any business relationship between any Borrower or Subsidiary and any customer or
supplier, or any group of customers or suppliers, who individually or in the aggregate are material
to the business of such Borrower or Subsidiary. There exists no condition or circumstance that
could reasonably be expected to impair the ability of any Borrower or Subsidiary to conduct its
business at any time hereafter in substantially the same manner as conducted on the Closing Date.

9.1.22  Labor Relations . Except as described on  Schedule 9.1.22 , no Borrower or
Subsidiary is party to or bound by any collective bargaining agreement, management agreement or
consulting agreement. There are no material grievances, disputes or controversies with any union
or other organization of any Borrower s or Subsidiary s employees, or, to any Borrower s knowledge,
any asserted or threatened strikes, work stoppages or demands for collective bargaining.

9.1.23  Payable Practices . No Borrower or Subsidiary has made any material change in
its historical accounts payable practices from those in effect on the Closing Date.

9.1.24  Not a Regulated Entity . No Obligor is (a) an  investment company  or a  person
directly or indirectly controlled by or acting on behalf of an investment company  within the
meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940; (b) a  holding company,  a  subsidiary company  of a
 holding company,  or an  affiliate  of either, within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935; or (c) subject to regulation under the Federal Power Act, the Interstate
Commerce Act, any public utilities code or any other Applicable Law regarding its authority to
incur Debt.

9.1.25  Margin Stock . No Borrower or Subsidiary is engaged, principally or as one of
its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or
carrying any Margin Stock. No Loan proceeds or Letters of Credit will be used by Borrowers to
purchase or carry, or to reduce or refinance any Debt incurred to purchase or carry, any Margin
Stock or for any related purpose governed by Regulations T, U or X of the Board of Governors.

-57-

9.1.26  Plan Assets . No Borrower is an entity deemed to hold  plan assets  within the
meaning of 29 C.F.R.  2510.3-101 of any  employee benefit plan  (as defined in Section 3(3) of
ERISA) that is subject to Title I of ERISA or any  plan  (within the meaning of Section 4975 of the
Internal Revenue Code), and neither the execution of this Agreement nor the funding of any Loans
gives rise to a prohibited transaction within the meaning of Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975
of the Internal Revenue Code.

9.1.27  Shareholder Agreements . As of the Closing Date, no Obligor is a party to any
material agreement with Donald A. Kurz or Crown, or their Affiliates, other than, the Securities
Purchase Agreement, the Warrants, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Certificate of
Designation.

9.1.28  BK Agreements and Other Customer Agreements . Borrowers have delivered to Agent
a copy of each BK Services Agreement, BK Supply Agreement, RSI Supply Agreement, Other Customer
Agreement or, to the knowledge of Borrowers, any other written customer supply or service agreement
in effect on or after the Closing Date (other than a purchase order) to the extent an Account owing
to any Borrower has arisen from an Account Debtor party to such other written customer supply or
service agreement or any of its Affiliates or is reasonably expected to arise from an Account
Debtor party to such agreement or any of its Affiliates within 12 months from any date of
determination.

9.1.29  Permits . Each of the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries has such certificates,
permits, licenses (including trademark and other Intellectual Property licenses), franchises,
consents, approvals, authorizations and clearances that are material to the condition (financial or
otherwise), business or operations of any Borrower or Subsidiary (  Permits  ), except to the
extent the lack thereof would not have a Material Adverse Effect; and all such Permits are valid
and in full force and effect and will be valid and in full force and effect immediately after the
Closing Date, except for those where the failure to be valid or in effect could not reasonably be
expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Each of the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries is
in compliance in all respects with its obligations under such Permits, except where failure to be
in compliance could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, and no event
has occurred that allows, or after notice or lapse of time would allow, revocation or termination
of such Permits, except where such revocation or termination could not reasonably be expected to
result in a Material Adverse Effect.

9.1.30  Inventory Locations .  Schedule 8.6.1  attached hereto lists all locations at
which any Borrower or any of its Domestic Subsidiaries has any personal Property (including without
limitation Inventory) stored or otherwise located. None of the Borrowers or any of its
Subsidiaries have any personal Property (including without limitation any Inventory) stored in or
otherwise located on any of the following locations: 19400 Western Avenue, Torrance, California
90502; 553-A South Joliet Road, Bollingbrook, Illinois 60440; 5335 West 74th Street, Indianapolis,
Indiana 46268; and 490 Supreme Drive, Bensenville, Illinois 60106.

9.2    Matters Relating to Collateral   . 

9.2.1 C reation, Perfection and Priority of Liens . The execution and delivery of the
Security Documents by each Obligor party thereto and the delivery to Agent of the Pledged
Collateral (all of which Pledged Collateral has been so delivered) are effective to create in favor
of Agent for the benefit of Lenders, as security for the respective Secured Obligations (as defined
in the applicable Security Document in respect of any Collateral), a valid and perfected first
priority Lien on all of the Collateral, and all filings and other actions necessary or desirable to
perfect and maintain the perfection and first priority status of such Liens have been duly made or
taken and remain in full force and effect, other than the filing of any UCC financing statements
delivered to Agent for filing (but not yet filed) and the periodic filing of UCC continuation
statements in respect of UCC financing statements filed by or on behalf of Agent.

-58-

9.2.2  Governmental Approvals . No Governmental Approval is required for either (i) the
pledge or grant by any Obligor of the Liens purported to be created in favor of Agent pursuant to
any of the Security Documents, or (ii) the exercise by Agent of any rights or remedies in respect
of any Collateral (whether specifically granted or created pursuant to any of the Security
Documents or created or provided for by applicable law), except for filings or recordings
contemplated by  Section 9.2.1  and except as may be required, in connection with the disposition of
any Pledged Collateral, by laws generally affecting the offering and sale of securities. As of the
Closing Date, Borrowers and Subsidiaries have received no written notice of any pending or
threatened condemnation proceeding, exercise of the power of eminent domain by any Governmental
Authority, or any similar proceeding affecting any facility or any interest therein. As of the
Closing Date, no such proceeding is pending, contemplated or threatened.

9.2.3  Absence of Third-Party Filings . Except such as may have been filed in favor of
Agent as contemplated by  Section 9.2.1  and as set forth on  Schedule 9.2.3  annexed hereto, (i) no
effective UCC financing statement, fixture filing or other instrument similar in effect covering
all or any part of the Collateral is on file in any filing or recording office, and (ii) no
effective filing covering all or any part of the Intellectual Property Collateral is on file in the
PTO.

9.2.4  Margin Stock . The pledge of the Pledged Collateral pursuant to the Security
Documents does not violate Regulation T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System.

9.2.5  Information Regarding Collateral; Representations and Warranties . All
information supplied to Agent by or on behalf of any Obligor with respect to any of the Collateral
(in each case taken as a whole with respect to any particular Collateral) is accurate and complete
in all material respects. All representations and warranties of the Obligors set forth in the
Security Documents are true and correct.

9.3    Complete Disclosure   .  No statement, information, report, representation, or
warranty made by any Obligor in any Loan Document or furnished to Agent or any Lender in connection
with any Loan Document contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any
material fact necessary to make the statements herein or therein not misleading. Any projections,
budgets, and pro forma financial information contained in such materials are based upon good faith
estimates and assumptions believed by any Borrower or the Obligors to be reasonable at the time
made, it being recognized by Lenders that such projections as to future events are not to be viewed
as facts and that actual results during the period or periods covered by any such projections may
differ from the projected results. There are no facts known (or which should upon the reasonable
exercise of diligence be known) to any Borrower (other than matters of a general economic nature)
that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material
Adverse Effect and that have not been disclosed herein or in such other documents, certificates and
statements furnished to Lenders for use in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.

SECTION 10. COVENANTS AND CONTINUING AGREEMENTS 

10.1    Affirmative Covenants   .  For so long as any Revolver Commitments or Obligations
are outstanding, each Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to:

10.1.1  Inspections; Appraisals .

(a) Permit Agent (or any of its authorized representatives) from time to time, subject (except
when a Default or Event of Default exists) to reasonable notice and normal business hours, to visit
and inspect the Properties of any Borrower or Subsidiary, inspect, audit and make extracts from any
Borrower s or Subsidiary s books and records, conduct audit field examinations and appraisals and
discuss with its officers, employees, agents, advisors and independent accountants such Borrower s
or

 -59-

Subsidiary s business, financial condition, assets, prospects and results of operations.
Lenders may participate in any such visit or inspection, at their own expense. Neither Agent nor
any Lender shall have any duty to any Borrower to make any inspection, nor to share any results of
any inspection, appraisal or report with any Borrower. To the extent any appraisal or other
information is shared by Agent or a Lender with any Borrower, such Borrower acknowledges that it
was prepared by Agent and Lenders for their purposes and Borrowers shall not be entitled to rely
upon it.

(b) Reimburse Agent for all charges, costs and expenses of Agent in connection with (i)
examinations of any Obligor s books and records or any other financial or Collateral matters as
Agent deems appropriate; and (ii) appraisals of Inventory, Equipment and Real Estate (if any).
Borrowers shall pay Agent s then standard charges for each day that an employee of Agent or its
Affiliates is engaged in any examination activities, and shall pay the standard charges of Agent s
internal appraisal group. This Section shall not be construed to limit Agent s right to conduct
examinations or to obtain appraisals at any time in its discretion, nor to use third parties for
such purposes.

10.1.2  Financial and Other Information . Keep adequate records and books of account
with respect to its business activities, in which proper entries are made in accordance with GAAP
reflecting all financial transactions; and furnish to Agent and Lenders (unless extended in writing
by Agent in its sole discretion):

(a) as soon as available, and in any event within 90 days after the close of each Fiscal Year,
balance sheets as of the end of such Fiscal Year and the related statements of income, cash flow
and shareholders  equity for such Fiscal Year, on consolidated and consolidating basis for
Borrowers and Subsidiaries, which consolidated statements shall be audited and certified (without
qualification as to scope,  going concern  or similar items) by a firm of independent certified
public accountants of recognized standing selected by Borrowers and acceptable to Agent, and shall
set forth in comparative form corresponding figures for the preceding Fiscal Year and other
information acceptable to Agent;

(b) as soon as available, and in any event within 45 days after the close of each Fiscal
Quarter (excluding the Fiscal Quarter ending on December 31), (i) balance sheets as of the end of
such Fiscal Quarter and the related statements of income, cash flow and shareholders  equity for
such Fiscal Quarter, on consolidated and consolidated basis for Borrowers and Subsidiaries, setting
forth in comparative form corresponding figures for the preceding Fiscal Year and certified by the
chief financial officer (or vice president-finance or vice president-controller) of Borrower Agent
as being prepared in accordance with GAAP and fairly presenting the financial position and results
of operations for such Fiscal Quarter and period, subject to normal year-end adjustments and the
absence of footnotes, and (ii) the Form 10-Q filed by Borrower Agent with the Securities and
Exchange Commission with respect to such Fiscal Quarter;

(c) as soon as available, and in any event within 30 days after the end of each month,
unaudited balance sheets as of the end of such month and the related statements of income and cash
flow for such month and for the portion of the Fiscal Year then elapsed, on consolidated and
consolidating bases for Borrowers and Subsidiaries, setting forth in comparative form corresponding
figures for the preceding Fiscal Year and certified by the chief financial officer (or vice
president-finance or vice president-controller) of Borrower Agent as being prepared in accordance
with GAAP and fairly presenting the financial position and results of operations for such month and
period, subject to normal quarter or year-end adjustments and the absence of footnotes;

(d) concurrently with delivery of financial statements under clauses (a), (b) and (c) above,
(i) balance sheets as of the end of the applicable period and the related statements of income,
cash flow and shareholders  equity for such period, on a consolidated basis for Borrowers and
Subsidiaries (other than EMAK Europe Holdings, Limited and its direct and indirect Subsidiaries),
setting forth in comparative form corresponding figures for the preceding applicable period and
certified by the chief

 -60-

financial officer (or vice president-finance or vice president-controller) of Borrower Agent
as being prepared in accordance with GAAP and fairly presenting the financial position and results
of operations for such period (together with reconciliation information reconciling the exclusion
of EMAK Europe Holdings, Limited and its direct and indirect Subsidiaries) and (ii) a Compliance
Certificate executed by the chief financial officer (or vice president-finance or vice
president-controller) of Borrower Agent;

(e) concurrently with delivery of financial statements under clause (a) above, copies of all
management letters and other material reports submitted to Borrowers by their accountants in
connection with such financial statements;

(f) not later than the end of each Fiscal Year (and in any event prior to approval thereof by
the Board of Directors of any Borrower), projections of Borrowers  consolidated balance sheets,
results of operations, cash flow and Availability for the next three Fiscal Years, year by year,
and for the next Fiscal Year, month by month;

(g) at Agent s request, a listing of each Borrower s trade payables, specifying the trade
creditor and balance due, and a detailed trade payable aging, all in form satisfactory to Agent;

(h) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of any proxy statements, financial
statements or reports that any Borrower has made generally available to its shareholders; copies of
any regular, periodic and special reports or registration statements or prospectuses that any
Borrower files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other Governmental Authority, or
any securities exchange; and copies of any press releases or other statements made available by a
Borrower to the public concerning material changes to or developments in the business of such
Borrower;

(i) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of any annual report to be filed in
connection with each Plan or Foreign Plan;

(j) such other reports and information (financial or otherwise) as Agent may request from time
to time in connection with any Collateral or any Borrower s, Subsidiary s or other Obligor s
financial condition or business;

(k) as soon as available, and in any event within 120 days after the close of each Fiscal
Year, financial statements for each Guarantor, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent;

(l) (i) no later than 20 days after the Closing Date, Borrowers shall have delivered to Agent
a fully executed Collateral Access Agreement substantially in the form of  Exhibit D  annex hereto or
as otherwise agreed to by Agent (or in cases where Borrowers have an existing Collateral Access
Agreement delivered pursuant to the Existing Credit Agreement, a confirmation thereof in form and
substance satisfactory to Agent) executed by the applicable Borrower(s) and its landlord with
respect to each location identified on  Schedule 8.6.1 , which schedule includes the locations where
any Inventory (other than immaterial Inventory) is located, including locations of warehousemen and
shipping companies in possession of Inventory (other than immaterial Inventory) and (ii) no later
than 20 days after Agent s request with respect to any Borrower s location created after the
Closing Date where any Inventory (other than immaterial Inventory) is located, including locations
of warehousemen and shipping companies in possession of Inventory (other than immaterial
Inventory), Borrowers shall have delivered to Agent a fully executed Collateral Access Agreement
substantially in the form of  Exhibit D  annex hereto or any other form of Lien Waiver reasonably
requested by Agent with respect thereto.

(m) (i) ten days prior to the formation of any Subsidiary or ten days prior to the
consummation of any Acquisition (or such shorter period agreed to by Agent), notice of such
formation or such Acquisition, together with all of the data required to be set forth in  Schedule
9.1.4  annexed hereto with respect to all Borrowers and Subsidiaries (it being understood that such
written notice shall be

 -61-

deemed to supplement  Schedule 9.1.4  annexed hereto for all purposes of this Agreement) and
such other information regarding such Subsidiary or such Acquisition as may be reasonably requested
by Agent; and (ii) promptly upon any Person becoming a Subsidiary of any Borrower, a written notice
setting forth with respect to such Person the date on which such Person became a Subsidiary of such
Borrower;  provided  that nothing in this paragraph should be deemed to authorize any
Acquisition and no Acquisition shall be consummated unless consented to by Agent and Required
Lenders in the their sole discretion;

(n) annually, within 120 days after the end of each Fiscal Year, a certificate of Borrower
Agent executed by its Senior Officer (and, if requested by Agent, any insurance broker of
Borrowers) setting forth the nature and extent of all insurance maintained by Borrowers and their
Subsidiaries in accordance with  Section 10.1.7  or any Security Documents (and which, in the case of
a certificate of a broker, were placed through such broker) and certifying that Borrowers are in
compliance with  Sections 8.6.2(a)  and  10.1.7 ;

(o) as soon as practicable following receipt thereof, copies of all environmental audits and
reports, whether prepared by personnel of Borrowers or Subsidiaries or by independent consultants,
with respect to significant environmental matters at any real Property or which relate to an
Environmental Notice in either case which could reasonably be expected to result in a Material
Adverse Effect;

(p) promptly after any Senior Officer of any Borrower knows of any actual liability (other
than contractual liability incurred in purchase orders in the Ordinary Course of Business) or
potential contingent liabilities where the amount involved exceeds the Threshold Amount and such
actual or potential contingent liabilities are not reflected in the most recent financial
statements delivered to Lenders pursuant to  Sections 10.1.2(a) ,  10.1.2(b)  or  10.1.2(c)  written
notice thereof;

(q) promptly, and in any event within five Business Days (i) after any material change in or
termination of any contractual arrangement between any Borrower on the one hand and any member of
the BK Group or any other material customer of any Borrower on the other hand (including without
limitation any BK Agreements), or (ii) after learning of any impending material change or
termination of any contractual arrangement between any Borrower on the one hand and any member of
the BK Group or any other material customer of any Borrower on the other hand (including without
limitation any of the BK Agreements or any of the Other Customer Agreements), written notice
thereof;

(r) promptly, and in any event within five Business Days of entering into any new BK Services
Agreement, BK Supply Agreement, RSI Supply Agreement, Other Customer Agreement or any other
customer agreement (other than a purchase order) after the Closing Date, a copy of such agreement;

(s) promptly, and in any event within five Business Days of any Borrower having any other
location on which they store or otherwise place Inventory or other personal Property that is not
already disclosed to Agent pursuant to  Section 9.1.30  a notice of such location together with such
other details reasonably satisfactory to Agent.

(t) promptly, and in any event before engaging any new customs broker (other than the customs
broker that has executed an Imported Goods Agreement), a fully executed Imported Goods Agreement
executed by the applicable Borrower(s) and such new customs broker;

(u) promptly, and in any event within 20 Business Days of the Closing Date, evidence in form
and substance satisfactory to Agent that the Liens set forth in  Schedule 10.1.2  have been released
or terminated;

-62-

(v) promptly, and in any event within 20 Business Days of the Closing Date, a fully executed
Securities Account Control Agreement (or in cases where Borrowers have an existing Securities
Account Control Agreement delivered pursuant to the Existing Credit Agreement, a confirmation
thereof in form and substance satisfactory to Agent) executed by the applicable Borrower(s) and
Fidelity Investments;

(w) promptly, and in any event within 20 Business Days of the Closing Date, a fully executed
Securities Account Control Agreement (or in cases where Borrowers have an existing Securities
Account Control Agreement delivered pursuant to the Existing Credit Agreement, a confirmation
thereof in form and substance satisfactory to Agent) executed by the applicable Borrower(s) and UBS
or evidence in form and substance satisfactory to Agent that the relevant Securities Account has
been terminated;

(x) promptly, and in any event within 10 days of the Closing Date, a fully executed Imported
Goods Agreement executed by any Borrower that imports Inventory into the United States and its
customs broker.

(y) promptly, and in any event within ten Business Days of the Closing Date, evidence in form
and substance satisfactory to Agent that the Securities Account (account number 22024479) and the
bank accounts (account numbers 14592-02663, 14590-29277 and 3299837643), in each case with Bank of
America has been closed; and

(z) promptly, such other data and information as from time to time may be reasonably requested
by Agent.

10.1.3  Notices . Notify Agent and Lenders in writing, promptly after a Borrower s
obtaining knowledge thereof, of any of the following that affects an Obligor: (a) the threat or
commencement of any proceeding or investigation, whether or not covered by insurance, if an adverse
determination could have a Material Adverse Effect; (b) any pending or threatened labor dispute,
strike or walkout, or the expiration of any material labor contract; (c) any default under or
termination of a Material Contract or any other Related Document; (d) the existence of any Default
or Event of Default; (e) any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting
practices of Borrowers and Subsidiaries; (f) any judgment in an amount exceeding the Threshold
Amount; (g) the assertion of any Intellectual Property Claim, if an adverse resolution could have a
Material Adverse Effect; (h) any violation or asserted violation of any Applicable Law (including
ERISA, OSHA, FLSA, or any Environmental Laws), if an adverse resolution could have a Material
Adverse Effect; (i) any Environmental Release by an Obligor or on any Property owned, leased or
occupied by an Obligor; or receipt of any Environmental Notice; (j) the discharge of or any
withdrawal or resignation by Borrowers  independent accountants; or (k) any opening of a new office
or place of business, at least 30 days prior to such opening.

10.1.4  Landlord and Storage Agreements . Upon request, provide Agent with copies of
all existing agreements, and promptly after execution thereof provide Agent with copies of all
future agreements, between an Obligor and any landlord, warehouseman, processor, shipper, bailee or
other Person that owns any premises at which any Collateral may be kept or that otherwise may
possess or handle any Collateral.

10.1.5  Compliance with Laws . Comply with all Applicable Laws, including ERISA,
Environmental Laws, FLSA, OSHA, Anti-Terrorism Laws, and laws regarding collection and payment of
Taxes, and maintain all Governmental Approvals necessary to the ownership of its Properties or
conduct of its business, unless failure to comply (other than failure to comply with Anti-Terrorism
Laws) or maintain could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, if any Environmental Release occurs at or on any
Properties of any Borrower or Subsidiary, it shall act promptly and diligently to investigate and
report to Agent and all appropriate

 -63-

Governmental Authorities the extent of, and to make appropriate remedial action to eliminate,
such Environmental Release, whether or not directed to do so by any Governmental Authority.

10.1.6  Taxes . Pay and discharge all Taxes prior to the date on which they become
delinquent or penalties attach, unless such Taxes are being Properly Contested.

10.1.7  Insurance . In addition to the insurance required hereunder with respect to
Collateral, maintain insurance with insurers (rated A  or better by Best Rating Guide) satisfactory
to Agent, (a) with respect to the Properties and business of Borrowers and Subsidiaries of such
type (including product liability, workers  compensation, larceny, embezzlement, or other criminal
misappropriation insurance), in such amounts, and with such coverages and deductibles as are
customary for companies similarly situated, and (b) business interruption insurance in an amount
not less than $2,000,000, with deductibles and subject to an Insurance Assignment satisfactory to
Agent.

10.1.8  Licenses . Keep each License affecting any Collateral (including the
manufacture, distribution or disposition of Inventory) or any other material Property of Borrowers
and Subsidiaries in full force and effect; promptly notify Agent of any proposed modification to
any such License, or entry into any new License, in each case at least 30 days prior to its
effective date; pay all Royalties when due; and notify Agent of any default or breach asserted by
any Person to have occurred under any License.

10.1.9  Future Subsidiaries . Within five Business Days of the date of the formation or
on or before the date of Acquisition (provided that nothing in this paragraph shall be deemed to
authorize the Acquisition of any entity) of any Subsidiary or Borrowers shall deliver, or cause to
be delivered, to Agent the following items applicable to such Subsidiary, each in form and
substance satisfactory to Agent:

(a) If such Subsidiary is a Domestic Subsidiary, (i) an Additional Borrower counterpart of
this Agreement executed by such Subsidiary in the form of  Exhibit F  annexed hereto, (ii) a
counterpart of the Domestic Pledge Agreement executed by such Subsidiary, together with any
required supplements to any schedules hereto or thereto, and (iii) the applicable items required by
 Sections 6.1(d) and 6.1(e)  as if such Subsidiary were executing this Agreement on the date hereof
and, if requested by Agent, such other items that would be required by  Section 6.1  if such
Subsidiary were executing this Agreement on the date hereof; provided that notwithstanding
compliance with this  Section 10.1.9  and any other provision of this Agreement, none of the Accounts
and Inventory of such Subsidiary shall be included in Eligible Accounts and Eligible Inventory, as
applicable, until such time as Agent shall have obtained field examination reports and appraisals
with respect thereto in form and substance satisfactory to Agent;

(b) If such Subsidiary is a Foreign Subsidiary, any required counterparts of, or supplements
to, the applicable Foreign Security Agreement in order to pledge 65% of the equity interests of
such Foreign Subsidiary; and

(c) Such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as Agent, Issuing
Lender or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.

In addition, Borrowers shall execute such documents, instruments and agreements and take such
other actions as Agent shall require to evidence and perfect a Lien in favor of Agent (for the
benefit of Secured Parties) on all assets of such Subsidiary, including delivery of such legal
opinions, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent, as it shall deem appropriate.

10.1.10  Preservation of Existence . Except to the extent permitted by  Section 10.2.9 
preserve and maintain its existence, licenses, permits, rights, franchises and privileges necessary
or

-64-

desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except where failure to do so does not have a
Material Adverse Effect.

10.1.11  Maintenance of Properties . Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material
Properties and Equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good order and condition,
subject to wear and tear in the ordinary course of business.

10.1.12  Compliance with ERISA . Except with respect to each Multiemployer Plan, (a)
maintain each Plan in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA,
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and other federal or state law; (b) cause each Plan
which is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, to
maintain such qualification; and (c) make all required contributions to any Plan subject to Section
412 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

10.1.13  Compliance With Agreements . Comply with all Contractual Obligations to which
any one or more of them is a party, except for any such Contractual Obligations (a) the performance
of which would cause a Default or Event of Default, (b) then being contested by any of them in good
faith by appropriate proceedings, or (c) if the failure to comply therewith does not have a
Material Adverse Effect.

10.1.14  Use of Proceeds . Use the proceeds of Revolver Loans solely (a) to satisfy
existing Debt; (b) to pay fees and transaction expenses associated with the closing of this credit
facility; (c) to pay Obligations in accordance with this Agreement; and (d) for working capital and
other lawful corporate purposes of Borrowers.

10.1.15  Securities Account Control Agreements . Execute and cause to be executed a
Securities Account Control Agreement for any additional Securities Account established with a
securities intermediary subsequent to the Closing Date within five (5) Business Days of
establishment thereof.

10.1.16  Prodesign Marketing . Cause Prodesign Marketing Limited, a Northern Ireland
company (  Prodesign  ), to be liquidated within 15 months of the Closing Date and in any
event (i) not transfer any assets of any Obligor to Prodesign and not guarantee any obligations of
Prodesign at any time on or after the Closing Date and (ii) not permit Prodesign to own assets
exceeding $10,000 in the aggregate at any time.

10.1.17  Bank Products . In order to facilitate the administration of this Agreement
and Agent s security interest in the Collateral, maintain Bank of America and its Affiliates as
Borrowers  principal depository bank, including for the maintenance of operating, administrative,
cash management, collection activity and other deposit accounts for the conduct of Borrowers 
business, and as the principal provider of cash management services.

10.2    Negative Covenants   .  For so long as any Revolver Commitments or Obligations are
outstanding, each Borrower shall not, and shall cause each Subsidiary not to:

10.2.1  Permitted Debt . Create, incur, guarantee or suffer to exist any Debt, except:

(a) the Obligations;

(b) Debt of any Borrower that is either EMAK or a wholly-owned Domestic Subsidiary of EMAK to
any other Borrower that is either EMAK or a wholly-owned Domestic Subsidiary of EMAK; provided that
(a) all such intercompany Debt shall be evidenced by promissory notes that are pledged to Agent
pursuant to the terms of the applicable Security Document, (b) all such intercompany Debt owed by
any such Borrower to any such other Borrower shall be subordinated in right of payment to the
payment in full of the Obligations pursuant to the terms of the applicable promissory notes or an

 -65-

intercompany subordination agreement, and (c) any payment by any such Borrower under any
guaranty of the Obligations shall result in a pro tanto reduction of the amount of any intercompany
Debt owed by such Borrower to any such other Borrower for whose benefit such payment is made;

(c) Permitted Purchase Money Debt;

(d) Borrowed Money (other than the Obligations, Subordinated Debt and Permitted Purchase Money
Debt), but only to the extent outstanding on the Closing Date and listed on  Schedule 10.2.1  and not
satisfied with proceeds of the initial Loans;

(e) Bank Product Debt;

(f) Debt of Foreign Subsidiaries to banks for working capital purposes not exceeding 5,000,000
in the aggregate at any time outstanding;

(g) Permitted Contingent Obligations;

(h) Refinancing Debt as long as each Refinancing Condition is satisfied; and

(i) Debt that is not included in any of the preceding clauses of this Section, is not secured
by a Lien and does not exceed $1,000,000 in the aggregate at any time.

10.2.2  Permitted Liens .

(i) Create or suffer to exist any Lien or Negative Pledge upon any of its Property,
except the following (collectively,   Permitted Liens  ):

(a) Liens in favor of Agent;

(b) Purchase Money Liens securing Permitted Purchase Money Debt;

(c) Liens for Taxes not yet due or being Properly Contested;

(d) statutory Liens (other than Liens for Taxes or imposed under ERISA) arising
in the Ordinary Course of Business, but only if (i) payment of the obligations
secured thereby is not yet due or is being Properly Contested, and (ii) such Liens
do not materially impair the value or use of the Property or materially impair
operation of the business of any Borrower or Subsidiary;

(e) Liens incurred or deposits made in the Ordinary Course of Business to
secure the performance of tenders, bids, leases, contracts (except those relating to
Borrowed Money), statutory obligations and other similar obligations, or arising as
a result of progress payments under government contracts, as long as such Liens are
at all times junior to Agent s Liens;

(f) Liens arising by virtue of a judgment or judicial order against any
Borrower or Subsidiary, or any Property of a Borrower or Subsidiary, as long as such
Liens are (i) in existence for less than 20 consecutive days or being Properly
Contested, and (ii) at all times junior to Agent s Liens;

(g) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions, covenants or other agreements of
record, and other similar charges or encumbrances on Real Estate, that do not secure
any monetary obligation and do not interfere with the Ordinary Course of Business;

-66-

(h) normal and customary rights of setoff upon deposits in favor of depository
institutions, and Liens of a collecting bank on Payment Items in the course of
collection;

(i) existing Liens and Negative Pledges shown on  Schedule 10.2.2 ; and

(j) Liens on the assets of Foreign Subsidiaries to secure the Debt permitted by
 Section 10.2.1(f) .

(ii)  Equitable Lien in Favor of Lenders . If Borrowers or Subsidiaries shall
create or assume any Lien upon any of its properties or assets, whether now owned or
hereafter acquired, other than Liens excepted by the provisions of  Section 10.2.2(i) , they
shall make or cause to be made effective provision whereby the Obligations will be secured
by such Lien equally and ratably with any and all other Debt secured thereby as long as any
such Debt shall be so secured; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, this covenant
shall not be construed as a consent by Required Lenders to the creation or assumption of any
such Lien not permitted by the provisions of  Section 10.2.2(i) .

(iii)  No Further Negative Pledges . Except with respect to (i) specific
property encumbered to secure payment of particular Indebtedness or to be sold pursuant to
an executed agreement with respect to an Asset Disposition, and (ii) any debt facility of a
Foreign Subsidiary in connection with Indebtedness of such Foreign Subsidiary permitted by
 Section 10.2.1(f) , enter into any agreement prohibiting the creation or assumption of any
Lien upon any of its properties or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired.

(iv)  No Restrictions on Subsidiary Distributions to Borrowers or Other
Subsidiaries . Except for restrictions under the Loan Documents, under Applicable Law or
in effect on the Closing Date as shown on  Schedule 9.1.17  and except with respect to any
debt facility of a Foreign Subsidiary in connection with Debt of such Foreign Subsidiary
permitted by  Section 10.2.1(f) , create or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become
effective any consensual encumbrance or restriction of any kind on the ability of any
Subsidiary to (i) pay dividends or make any other distributions on any of such Subsidiary s
capital stock owned by any Borrower or any other Subsidiary of such Borrower, (ii) repay or
prepay any Debt owed by such Subsidiary to any Borrower or any other Subsidiary of such
Borrower, (iii) make loans or advances to any Borrower or any other Subsidiary of such
Borrower, or (iv) transfer any of its property or assets to any Borrower or any other
Subsidiary of such Borrower.

10.2.3  Capital Expenditures . Make Capital Expenditures in excess of $2,500,000 in the
aggregate during any Fiscal Year;  provided ,  however , that if the amount of Capital
Expenditures permitted to be made in any Fiscal Year exceeds the amount actually made, up to
$500,000 of such excess may be carried forward to the next Fiscal Year.

10.2.4  Restricted Payments . Declare or make any Restricted Payments, except for:

(a) so long as no Default or Event of Default or material adverse alteration in the
relationship between Borrowers and any member of the BK Group has occurred and is continuing or
would result therefrom and so long as after giving pro forma effect thereto, the Fixed Charge
Coverage Ratio is at least 1.10:1.00, EMAK may make dividend payments to the holders of its
Preferred Stock;  provided  that no such dividend payments shall be made (i) unless and until
Lenders shall have received the Compliance Certificate due with the audited financial statements
for the Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 2006 that certifies that Borrowers are in full
compliance with all of the covenants under the Credit Agreement and that there are no Defaults or
Events of Default that have occurred and are continuing or (ii) during the Inventory Borrowing
Period;  provided   further  that the aggregate amount of

 -67-

such payments (including dividends to Crown with respect to Preferred Stock) shall not exceed
$1,500,000 in any twelve-month period (it being understood and agreed that the aggregate amount of
such amount may exceed such $1,500,000 for such twelve month period if such excess payment is for
the sole purpose of catching up on dividend payments with respect to the Preferred Stock that were
not made in a timely manner in accordance with the Certificate of Designation and if at the time of
any such excess payment, (A) all of the conditions required to make such $1,500,000 payment are
also met with respect to such excess payment and (B) after giving effect to such excess payment,
there is an Availability of at least $3,500,000 and Lenders shall have been delivered a Borrowing
Base Certificate showing such Availability and a Compliance Certificate showing that Borrowers are
in compliance with all of the other provisions of this Agreement after giving effect to such excess
payment);

(b) Borrowers may make cash payments to HK Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the lesser of (i) $5,000,000 in any Fiscal Year (and in any event not exceeding $1,000,000 in any
of the first three Fiscal Quarters and $2,000,000 in the fourth Fiscal Quarter) and (ii) an amount
equal to the operating costs (including Taxes and Capital Expenditures) incurred and payable by HK
Subsidiaries during such Fiscal Year (or such Fiscal Quarter, as applicable); and

(c) Borrowers may make a loan to UK Subsidiaries on or prior to June 30, 2006 in an aggregate
amount not exceeding $500,000 for the sole purpose of such UK Subsidiaries paying amounts to settle
working capital adjustment claims arising from the acquisition of Megaprint Group Limited.

10.2.5  Restricted Investments . Make any Restricted Investment.

10.2.6  Disposition of Assets . Make any Asset Disposition, except a Permitted Asset
Disposition, a disposition of Equipment under  Section 8.4.2 , a transfer of Property by a Subsidiary
or Obligor to a Borrower, or Asset Dispositions permitted by  Section 10.2.9 .

10.2.7  Loans . Make any loans or other advances of money to any Person, except (a)
advances to an officer or employee for salary, travel expenses, commissions and similar items in
the Ordinary Course of Business and in any event not exceeding $250,000 in the aggregate at any
time; (b) prepaid expenses and extensions of trade credit made in the Ordinary Course of Business;
(c) deposits with financial institutions permitted hereunder; and (d) as long as no Default or
Event of Default exists, intercompany loans by a Borrower to another Borrower so long as such
intercompany loans meet the requirements described in  Section 10.2.1(b) .

10.2.8  Restrictions on Payment of Certain Debt . Make any payments (whether voluntary
or mandatory, or a prepayment, redemption, retirement, defeasance or acquisition) with respect to
any (a) Subordinated Debt, except regularly scheduled payments of principal, interest and fees, but
only to the extent permitted under any subordination agreement relating to such Debt (and a Senior
Officer of Borrower Agent shall certify to Agent, not less than five Business Days prior to the
date of payment, that all conditions under such agreement have been satisfied); or (b) Borrowed
Money (other than the Obligations) prior to its due date under the agreements evidencing such Debt
as in effect on the Closing Date (or as amended thereafter with the consent of Agent).

10.2.9  Fundamental Changes . Merge, combine or consolidate with any Person, or
liquidate, wind up its affairs or dissolve itself, in each case whether in a single transaction or
in a series of related transactions, except for mergers or consolidations of a wholly-owned
Subsidiary with another wholly-owned Subsidiary or into a Borrower; change its name or conduct
business under any fictitious name; change its tax, charter or other organizational identification
number; or change its form or state of organization.

-68-

10.2.10  Subsidiaries . Form or acquire any Subsidiary after the Closing Date,
except in accordance with  Sections 10.1.9  and  10.2.5 ; or permit any existing Subsidiary to issue
any additional Equity Interests except director s qualifying shares.

10.2.11   Intentionally Omitted . 

10.2.12  Tax Consolidation . File or consent to the filing of any consolidated income
tax return with any Person other than Borrowers and Subsidiaries.

10.2.13  Accounting Changes . Make any material change in accounting treatment or
reporting practices, except as required by GAAP and in accordance with  Section 1.2 ; or change its
Fiscal Year.

10.2.14  Restrictive Agreements . Become a party to any Restrictive Agreement, except
(a) a Restrictive Agreement as in effect on the Closing Date and shown on  Schedule 9.1.17 ; (b) a
Restrictive Agreement relating to secured Debt permitted hereunder, if such restrictions apply only
to the collateral for such Debt; and (c) customary provisions in leases and other contracts
restricting assignment thereof.

10.2.15  Hedging Agreements . Enter into any Hedging Agreement, except to hedge risks
arising in the Ordinary Course of Business and not for speculative purposes.

10.2.16  Conduct of Business . Engage in any business, other than its business as
conducted on the Closing Date and any activities incidental thereto.

10.2.17  Affiliate Transactions . Enter into or be party to any transaction with any
holder of 10% or more of any class of capital stock of any Borrower or with an Affiliate, except
(a) transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents; (b) payment of reasonable compensation to
officers and employees for services actually rendered, and loans and advances permitted by  Section
10.2.7 ; (c) payment of customary directors  fees and indemnities; (d) transactions solely among
Borrowers; (e) transactions with Affiliates that were consummated prior to the Closing Date, as
shown on  Schedule 10.2.17 ; and (f) transactions with Affiliates in the Ordinary Course of Business,
upon fair and reasonable terms fully disclosed to Agent and no less favorable than would be
obtained in a comparable arm s-length transaction with a non-Affiliate.

10.2.18  Plans . Become party to any Multiemployer Plan or Foreign Plan, other than any
in existence on the Closing Date; or at any time engage in a transaction which could be subject to
Sections 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA, or permit any Plan to (a) engage in any non-exempt  prohibited
transaction  (as defined in Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended); (b)
fail to comply with ERISA or any other Applicable Laws; or (c) incur any material  accumulated
funding deficiency  (as defined in Section 302 of ERISA), which, with respect to each event listed
above, has a Material Adverse Effect.

10.2.19  Amendments to Subordinated Debt . Amend, supplement or otherwise modify any
document, instrument or agreement relating to any Subordinated Debt, if such modification (a)
increases the principal balance of such Debt, or increases any required payment of principal or
interest; (b) accelerates the date on which any installment of principal or any interest is due, or
adds any additional redemption, put or prepayment provisions; (c) shortens the final maturity date
or otherwise accelerates amortization; (d) increases the interest rate; (e) increases or adds any
fees or charges; (f) modifies any covenant in a manner or adds any representation, covenant or
default that is more onerous or restrictive in any material respect for any Borrower or Subsidiary,
or that is otherwise materially adverse to any Borrower, any Subsidiary or Lenders; or (g) results
in the Obligations not being fully benefited by the subordination provisions thereof.

-69-

10.2.20  Margin Regulations . Use the proceeds of any Extensions of Credit hereunder
for  purchasing  or  carrying  Margin Stock within the respective meanings of each of the quoted
terms under Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as in effect from
time to time or for any purpose which violates, or which would be inconsistent with, the provisions
of Regulations T, U or X of such Board of Governors.

10.2.21  Amendments or Waivers of the Related Documents . Agree to any amendment
materially adverse to any Borrower or to Agent or any Lender, or waive any of its material rights
in favor of any Obligor under, any Related Document or any Organic Document of any Obligor after
the Closing Date, without in each case obtaining the prior written consent of Required Lenders to
such amendment or waiver.

10.2.22  Amendments to Transfer Pricing . Agree to or otherwise implement or institute
any change to the transfer pricing between Borrowers on the one hand and Subsidiaries that are not
Borrowers on the other hand if such change is less favorable to any Borrower.

10.2.23  Bills of Lading . Permit any bill of lading relating to any Inventory of any
Borrower or any Inventory (whether or not then owned by any Borrower) being sold to BK, RSI and
their respective Affiliates, in each case in transit to the United States leaving for the United
States on or after April 10, 2006 to name any Person other than Agent as consignee of such bill of
lading.

10.3    Financial Covenants  . For so long as any Revolver Commitments or Obligations are
outstanding, Borrowers shall:

10.3.1  Minimum EBITDA  .  Achieve EBITDA (i) that is no less than negative $2,250,000
calculated as of March 31, 2006 and April 30, 2006, for the three and four month period,
respectively, then ended, (ii) that is no less than $2,000,000 calculated as of May 31, 2006, June
30, 2006 and July 31, 2006 for the five, six and seven month period, respectively, then ended,
(iii) that is no less than negative $2,500,000 calculated as of August 31, 2006 for the eight month
period then ended, and (iv) that is no less than $0 calculated as of September 30, 2006 for the
nine month period then ended.

10.3.2  Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio . Maintain a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio of at
least 1.10 to 1.0 at the end of each month (starting on the month ended on September 30, 2006) with
respect to the twelve-month period then ended.

SECTION 11. EVENTS OF DEFAULT; REMEDIES ON DEFAULT 

11.1    Events of Default   .  Each of the following shall be an   Event of Default  
hereunder, if the same shall occur for any reason whatsoever, whether voluntary or involuntary, by
operation of law or otherwise:

(a) Any Borrower fails to pay any Obligations when due (whether at stated maturity, on demand,
upon acceleration or otherwise);

(b) Any representation, warranty or other written statement of any Obligor made in connection
with any Loan Documents or transactions contemplated thereby is incorrect or misleading in any
material respect when given;

(c) Any Borrower breaches or fail to perform any covenant contained in  Section 7.2, 7.4, 7.6,
8.1, 8.2.4, 8.2.5, 8.6.2, 10.1.1, 10.1.2, 10.2  or  10.3 ;

(d) Any Obligor breaches or fails to perform any other covenant contained in any Loan
Documents (not specified in subsections (a), (b) or (c)), and such breach or failure is not cured
within 15 days after a Senior Officer of such Obligor has knowledge thereof or receives notice
thereof

-70-

from Agent, whichever is sooner; provided, however, that such notice and opportunity to cure
shall not apply if the breach or failure to perform is not capable of being cured within such
period or is a willful breach by an Obligor;

(e) Any Guarantor repudiates, revokes or attempts to revoke its Guaranty; any Obligor denies
or contests the validity or enforceability of any Loan Documents or Obligations, or the perfection
or priority of any Lien granted to Agent; or any Loan Document ceases to be in full force or effect
for any reason (other than a waiver or release by Agent and Lenders);

(f) Any breach or default of an Obligor occurs under any document, instrument or agreement to
which it is a party or by which it or any of its Properties is bound, relating to any Debt (other
than the Obligations) in excess of $250,000, if the maturity of or any payment with respect to such
Debt may be accelerated or demanded due to such breach;

(g) Any judgment or order for the payment of money is entered against an Obligor in an amount
that exceeds, individually or cumulatively with all unsatisfied judgments or orders against all
Obligors, $500,000 (net of any insurance coverage therefor acknowledged in writing by the insurer),
unless a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order is in effect, by reason of a pending appeal
or otherwise;

(h) Any loss, theft, damage or destruction occurs with respect to any Collateral if the amount
not covered by insurance exceeds $250,000;

(i) Any Obligor is enjoined, restrained or in any way prevented by any Governmental Authority
from conducting any material part of its business; any Obligor suffers the loss, revocation or
termination of any material license, permit, lease or agreement necessary to its business; there is
a cessation of any material part of an Obligor s business for a material period of time; any
material Collateral or Property of an Obligor is taken or impaired through condemnation; any
Obligor or any of its Subsidiaries (to the extent the Equity Interests of such Subsidiaries are a
part of the Collateral) to or commences any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of its affairs;
or any Obligor ceases to be Solvent;

(j) Any Insolvency Proceeding is commenced by any Obligor or any of its Subsidiaries (to the
extent the Equity Interests of such Subsidiaries are a part of the Collateral); an Insolvency
Proceeding is commenced against any Obligor or any of its Subsidiaries (to the extent the Equity
Interests of such Subsidiaries are a part of the Collateral) and such Obligor or such Subsidiary
consents to the institution of the proceeding against it, the petition commencing the proceeding is
not timely controverted by such Obligor or such Subsidiary, such petition is not dismissed within
30 days after its filing, or an order for relief is entered in the proceeding; a trustee (including
an interim trustee) is appointed to take possession of any substantial Property of or to operate
any of the business of any Obligor or any of its Subsidiaries (to the extent the Equity Interests
of such Subsidiaries are a part of the Collateral); or any Obligor or any of its Subsidiaries (to
the extent the Equity Interests of such Subsidiaries are a part of the Collateral) makes an offer
of settlement, extension or composition to its unsecured creditors generally;

(k) A Reportable Event occurs that constitutes grounds for termination by the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation of any Multiemployer Plan or appointment of a trustee for any Multiemployer
Plan; any Multiemployer Plan is terminated or any such trustee is requested or appointed; any
Obligor is in  default  (as defined in Section 4219(c)(5) of ERISA) with respect to payments to a
Multiemployer Plan resulting from any withdrawal therefrom; or any event similar to the foregoing
occurs or exists with respect to a Foreign Plan;

-71-

(l) Any Obligor or any of its Senior Officers is criminally indicted or convicted for (i) a
felony committed in the conduct of such Obligor s business, or (ii) any state or federal law
(including the Controlled Substances Act, Money Laundering Control Act of 1986 and Illegal
Exportation of War Materials Act) that could lead to forfeiture of any material Property or any
Collateral; or

(m) A Change of Control occurs, or any event occurs or condition exists that has a Material
Adverse Effect.

11.2    Remedies upon Default   .  If an Event of Default described in  Section 11.1(j) 
occurs with respect to any Borrower, then to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, all
Obligations shall become automatically due and payable and all Revolver Commitments shall
terminate, without any action by Agent or notice of any kind. In addition, or if any other Event
of Default exists, Agent may in its discretion (and shall upon written direction of Required
Lenders) do any one or more of the following from time to time:

(a) declare any Obligations immediately due and payable, whereupon they shall be due and
payable without diligence, presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind, all of which are
hereby waived by Borrowers to the fullest extent permitted by law;

(b) terminate, reduce or condition any Revolver Commitment, or make any adjustment to the
Borrowing Base;

(c) require Obligors to Cash Collateralize LC Obligations, Bank Product Debt and other
Obligations that are contingent or not yet due and payable, and, if Obligors fail promptly to
deposit such Cash Collateral, Agent may (and shall upon the direction of Required Lenders) advance
the required Cash Collateral as Revolver Loans (whether or not an Overadvance exists or is created
thereby, or the conditions in  Section 6  are satisfied); and

(d) exercise any other rights or remedies afforded under any agreement, by law, at equity or
otherwise, including the rights and remedies of a secured party under the UCC. Such rights and
remedies include the rights to (i) take possession of any Collateral; (ii) require Borrowers to
assemble Collateral, at Borrowers  expense, and make it available to Agent at a place designated by
Agent; (iii) enter any premises where Collateral is located and store Collateral on such premises
until sold (and if the premises are owned or leased by a Borrower, Borrowers agree not to charge
for such storage); and (iv) sell or otherwise dispose of any Collateral in its then condition, or
after any further manufacturing or processing thereof, at public or private sale, with such notice
as may be required by Applicable Law, in lots or in bulk, at such locations, all as Agent, in its
discretion, deems advisable. Each Borrower agrees that ten days notice of any proposed sale or
other disposition of Collateral by Agent shall be reasonable. Agent shall have the right to
conduct such sales on any Obligor s premises, without charge, and such sales may be adjourned from
time to time in accordance with Applicable Law. Agent shall have the right to sell, lease or
otherwise dispose of any Collateral for cash, credit or any combination thereof, and Agent may
purchase any Collateral at public or, if permitted by law, private sale and, in lieu of actual
payment of the purchase price, may set off the amount of such price against the Obligations.

11.3    License   .  Agent is hereby granted an irrevocable, non-exclusive license or other
right to use, license or sub-license (without payment of royalty or other compensation to any
Person) any or all Intellectual Property of Borrowers, computer hardware and software, trade
secrets, brochures, customer lists, promotional and advertising materials, labels, packaging
materials and other Property, in advertising for sale, marketing, selling, collecting, completing
manufacture of, or otherwise exercising any rights or remedies with respect to, any Collateral.
Each Borrower s rights and interests under Intellectual Property shall inure to Agent s benefit.

-72-

11.4    Setoff   .  Agent, Lenders and their Affiliates are each authorized by Borrowers at
any time during an Event of Default, without notice to Borrowers or any other Person, to set off
and to appropriate and apply any deposits (general or special), funds, claims, obligations,
liabilities or other Debt at any time held or owing by Agent, any Lender or any such Affiliate to
or for the account of any Obligor against any Obligations, whether or not demand for payment of
such Obligation has been made, any Obligations have been declared due and payable, are then due, or
are contingent or unmatured, or the Collateral or any guaranty or other security for the
Obligations is adequate.

11.5    Remedies Cumulative; No Waiver  .

11.5.1  Cumulative Rights . All covenants, conditions, provisions, warranties,
guaranties, indemnities and other undertakings of Borrowers contained in the Loan Documents are
cumulative and not in derogation or substitution of each other. In particular, the rights and
remedies of Agent and Lenders are cumulative, may be exercised at any time and from time to time,
concurrently or in any order, and shall not be exclusive of any other rights or remedies that Agent
and Lenders may have, whether under any agreement, by law, at equity or otherwise.

11.5.2  Waivers . The failure or delay of Agent or any Lender to require strict
performance by Borrowers with any terms of the Loan Documents, or to exercise any rights or
remedies with respect to Collateral or otherwise, shall not operate as a waiver thereof nor as
establishment of a course of dealing. All rights and remedies shall continue in full force and
effect until Full Payment of all Obligations. No modification of any terms of any Loan Documents
(including any waiver thereof) shall be effective, unless such modification is specifically
provided in a writing directed to Borrowers and executed by Agent or the requisite Lenders, and
such modification shall be applicable only to the matter specified. No waiver of any Default or
Event of Default shall constitute a waiver of any other Default or Event of Default that may exist
at such time, unless expressly stated. If Agent or any Lender accepts performance by any Obligor
under any Loan Documents in a manner other than that specified therein, or during any Default or
Event of Default, or if Agent or any Lender shall delay or exercise any right or remedy under any
Loan Documents, such acceptance, delay or exercise shall not operate to waive any Default or Event
of Default nor to preclude exercise of any other right or remedy. It is expressly acknowledged by
Borrowers that any failure to satisfy a financial covenant on a measurement date shall not be cured
or remedied by satisfaction of such covenant on a subsequent date.

SECTION 12. AGENT 

12.1 Appointment, Authority and Duties of Agent .

12.1.1  Appointment and Authority . Each Lender appoints and designates Bank of America
as Agent hereunder. Agent may, and each Lender authorizes Agent to, enter into all Loan Documents
to which Agent is intended to be a party and accept all Security Documents, for Agent s benefit and
the Pro Rata benefit of Lenders. Each Lender agrees that any action taken by Agent or Required
Lenders in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Documents, and the exercise by Agent or
Required Lenders of any rights or remedies set forth therein, together with all other powers
reasonably incidental thereto, shall be authorized and binding upon all Lenders. Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, Agent shall have the sole and exclusive authority to (a) act as
the disbursing and collecting agent for Lenders with respect to all payments and collections
arising in connection with the Loan Documents; (b) execute and deliver as Agent each Loan Document,
including any intercreditor or subordination agreement, and accept delivery of each Loan Document
from any Obligor or other Person; (c) act as collateral agent for Secured Parties for purposes of
perfecting and administering Liens under the Loan Documents, and for all other purposes stated
therein; (d) manage, supervise or otherwise deal with Collateral; and (e) exercise all rights and
remedies given to Agent with respect to any Collateral under the Loan Documents, Applicable Law or
otherwise. The duties of Agent shall be ministerial and administrative in nature, and Agent shall
not have a fiduciary relationship with any Lender, Secured

-73-

Party, Participant or other Person, by reason of any Loan Document or any transaction relating
thereto. Agent alone shall be authorized to determine whether any Accounts or Inventory constitute
Eligible Accounts or Eligible Inventory, or whether to impose or release any reserve, which
determinations and judgments, if exercised in good faith, shall exonerate Agent from liability to
any Lender or other Person for any error in judgment.

12.1.2  Duties . Agent shall not have any duties except those expressly set forth in
the Loan Documents, nor be required to initiate or conduct any Enforcement Action except to the
extent directed to do so by Required Lenders while an Event of Default exists. The conferral upon
Agent of any right shall not imply a duty on Agent s part to exercise such right, unless instructed
to do so by Required Lenders in accordance with this Agreement.

12.1.3  Agent Professionals . Agent may perform its duties through agents and
employees. Agent may consult with and employ Agent Professionals, and shall be entitled to act
upon, and shall be fully protected in any action taken in good faith reliance upon, any advice
given by an Agent Professional. Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of
any agents, employees or Agent Professionals selected by it with reasonable care.

12.1.4  Instructions of Required Lenders . The rights and remedies conferred upon Agent
under the Loan Documents may be exercised without the necessity of joinder of any other party,
unless required by Applicable Law. Agent may request instructions from Required Lenders with
respect to any act (including the failure to act) in connection with any Loan Documents, and may
seek assurances to its satisfaction from Lenders of their indemnification obligations under  Section
12.6  against all Claims that could be incurred by Agent in connection with any act. Agent shall be
entitled to refrain from any act until it has received such instructions or assurances, and Agent
shall not incur liability to any Person by reason of so refraining. Instructions of Required
Lenders shall be binding upon all Lenders, and no Lender shall have any right of action whatsoever
against Agent as a result of Agent acting or refraining from acting in accordance with the
instructions of Required Lenders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, instructions by and consent of
all Lenders shall be required in the circumstances described in  Section 14.1.1 , and in no event
shall Required Lenders, without the prior written consent of each Lender, direct Agent to
accelerate and demand payment of Loans held by one Lender without accelerating and demanding
payment of all other Loans, nor to terminate the Revolver Commitments of one Lender without
terminating the Revolver Commitments of all Lenders. In no event shall Agent be required to take
any action that, in its opinion, is contrary to Applicable Law or any Loan Documents or could
subject any Agent Indemnitee to personal liability.

12.2    Agreements Regarding Collateral and Field Examination Reports  .

12.2.1  Lien Releases; Care of Collateral . Lenders authorize Agent to release any Lien
with respect to any Collateral (a) upon Full Payment of the Obligations, (b) that is the subject of
an Asset Disposition which Borrowers certify in writing to Agent is a Permitted Asset Disposition
or a Lien which Borrowers certify is a Permitted Lien entitled to priority over Agent s Liens (and
Agent may rely conclusively on any such certificate without further inquiry), (c) that does not
constitute a material part of the Collateral, or (d) with the written consent of all Lenders.
Agent shall have no obligation whatsoever to any Lenders to assure that any Collateral exists or is
owned by a Borrower, or is cared for, protected, insured or encumbered, nor to assure that Agent s
Liens have been properly created, perfected or enforced, or are entitled to any particular
priority, nor to exercise any duty of care with respect to any Collateral.

12.2.2  Possession of Collateral . Agent and Lenders appoint each other Lender as agent
for the purpose of perfecting Liens (for the benefit of Secured Parties) in any Collateral that,
under the UCC or other Applicable Law, can be perfected by possession. If any Lender obtains
possession of any

-74-

such Collateral, it shall notify Agent thereof and, promptly upon Agent s request, deliver
such Collateral to Agent or otherwise deal with such Collateral in accordance with Agent s
instructions.

12.2.3  Reports . Agent shall promptly, upon receipt thereof, forward to each Lender
copies of the results of any field audit or other examination or any appraisal prepared by or on
behalf of Agent with respect to any Obligor or Collateral (  Report  ). Each Lender agrees
(a) that neither Bank of America nor Agent makes any representation or warranty as to the accuracy
or completeness of any Report, and shall not be liable for any information contained in or omitted
from any Report; (b) that the Reports are not intended to be comprehensive audits or examinations,
and that Agent or any other Person performing any audit or examination will inspect only specific
information regarding Obligations or the Collateral and will rely significantly upon Borrowers 
books and records as well as upon representations of Borrowers  officers and employees; and (c) to
keep all Reports confidential and strictly for such Lender s internal use, and not to distribute
any Report (or the contents thereof) to any Person (except to such Lender s Participants, attorneys
and accountants) or use any Report in any manner other than administration of the Loans and other
Obligations. Each Lender agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Agent and any other Person
preparing a Report from any action such Lender may take as a result of or any conclusion it may
draw from any Report, as well as any Claims arising in connection with any third parties that
obtain all or any part of a Report through such Lender.

12.3    Reliance By Agent  . Agent shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected
in relying, upon any certification, notice or other communication (including those by telephone,
telex, telegram, telecopy or e-mail) believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been
signed, sent or made by the proper Person, and upon the advice and statements of Agent
Professionals.

12.4    Action Upon Default  . Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any Default
or Event of Default unless it has received written notice from a Lender or Borrower specifying the
occurrence and nature thereof. If any Lender acquires knowledge of a Default or Event of Default,
it shall promptly notify Agent and the other Lenders thereof in writing. Each Lender agrees that,
except as otherwise provided in any Loan Documents or with the written consent of Agent and
Required Lenders, it will not take any Enforcement Action, accelerate its Obligations, or exercise
any right that it might otherwise have under Applicable Law to credit bid at foreclosure sales, UCC
sales or other similar dispositions of Collateral. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, a
Lender may take action to preserve or enforce its rights against an Obligor where a deadline or
limitation period is applicable that would, absent such action, bar enforcement of Obligations held
by such Lender, including the filing of proofs of claim in an Insolvency Proceeding.

12.5    Ratable Sharing  . If any Lender shall obtain any payment or reduction of any
Obligation, whether through set-off or otherwise, in excess of its share of such Obligation,
determined on a Pro Rata basis or in accordance with  Section 5.5.1 , as applicable, such Lender
shall forthwith purchase from Agent, Issuing Bank and the other Lenders such participations in the
affected Obligation as are necessary to cause the purchasing Lender to share the excess payment or
reduction on a Pro Rata basis or in accordance with  Section 5.5.1 , as applicable. If any of such
payment or reduction is thereafter recovered from the purchasing Lender, the purchase shall be
rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, but without interest.

12.6    Indemnification of Agent Indemnitees  .

12.6.1  Indemnification .  EACH LENDER SHALL INDEMNIFY AND HOLD HARMLESS AGENT
INDEMNITEES, TO THE EXTENT NOT REIMBURSED BY OBLIGORS (BUT WITHOUT LIMITING THE INDEMNIFICATION
OBLIGATIONS OF OBLIGORS UNDER ANY LOAN DOCUMENTS), ON A PRO RATA BASIS, AGAINST ALL CLAIMS THAT MAY
BE INCURRED BY OR ASSERTED AGAINST ANY AGENT INDEMNITEE.  If Agent is sued by any receiver, trustee
in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession or other Person for any alleged

-75-

preference from an Obligor or fraudulent transfer, then any monies paid by Agent in settlement
or satisfaction of such proceeding, together with all interest, costs and expenses (including
attorneys  fees) incurred in the defense of same, shall be promptly reimbursed to Agent by Lenders
to the extent of each Lender s Pro Rata share.

12.6.2  Proceedings . Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if at any time
(whether prior to or after the Commitment Termination Date) any proceeding is brought against any
Agent Indemnitees by an Obligor, or any Person claiming through an Obligor, to recover damages for
any act taken or omitted by Agent in connection with any Obligations, Collateral, Loan Documents or
matters relating thereto, or otherwise to obtain any other relief of any kind on account of any
transaction relating to any Loan Documents, each Lender agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Agent
Indemnitees with respect thereto and to pay to Agent Indemnitees such Lender s Pro Rata share of
any amount that any Agent Indemnitee is required to pay under any judgment or other order entered
in such proceeding or by reason of any settlement, including all interest, costs and expenses
(including attorneys  fees) incurred in defending same. In Agent s discretion, Agent may reserve
for any such proceeding, and may satisfy any judgment, order or settlement, from proceeds of
Collateral prior to making any distributions of Collateral proceeds to Lenders.

12.7    Limitation on Responsibilities of Agent  . Agent shall not be liable to Lenders
for any action taken or omitted to be taken under the Loan Documents, except for losses directly
and solely caused by Agent s gross negligence or willful misconduct. Agent does not assume any
responsibility for any failure or delay in performance or any breach by any Obligor or Lender of
any obligations under the Loan Documents. Agent does not make to Lenders any express or implied
warranty, representation or guarantee with respect to any Obligations, Collateral, Loan Documents
or Obligor. No Agent Indemnitee shall be responsible to Lenders for any recitals, statements,
information, representations or warranties contained in any Loan Documents; the execution,
validity, genuineness, effectiveness or enforceability of any Loan Documents; the genuineness,
enforceability, collectibility, value, sufficiency, location or existence of any Collateral, or the
validity, extent, perfection or priority of any Lien therein; the validity, enforceability or
collectibility of any Obligations; or the assets, liabilities, financial condition, results of
operations, business, creditworthiness or legal status of any Obligor or Account Debtor. No Agent
Indemnitee shall have any obligation to any Lender to ascertain or inquire into the existence of
any Default or Event of Default, the observance or performance by any Obligor of any terms of the
Loan Documents, or the satisfaction of any conditions precedent contained in any Loan Documents.

12.8    Successor Agent and Co-Agents  .

12.8.1  Resignation; Successor Agent . Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a
successor Agent as provided below, Agent may resign at any time by giving at least 30 days written
notice thereof to Lenders and Borrowers. Upon receipt of such notice, Required Lenders shall have
the right to appoint a successor Agent which shall be (a) a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender; or
(b) a commercial bank that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or
district thereof, has a combined capital surplus of at least $200,000,000 and (provided no Default
or Event of Default exists) is reasonably acceptable to Borrowers. If no successor agent is
appointed prior to the effective date of the resignation of Agent, then Agent may appoint a
successor agent from among Lenders. Upon acceptance by a successor Agent of an appointment to
serve as Agent hereunder, such successor Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with
all the powers and duties of the retiring Agent without further act, and the retiring Agent shall
be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder but shall continue to have the benefits of
the indemnification set forth in  Sections 12.6  and  14.2 . Notwithstanding any Agent s resignation,
the provisions of this  Section 12  shall continue in effect for its benefit with respect to any
actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while Agent. Any successor by merger or acquisition of
the stock or assets of Bank of America shall continue to be Agent hereunder without further act on
the part of the parties hereto, unless such successor resigns as provided above.

-76-

12.8.2  Separate Collateral Agent . It is the intent of the parties that there shall be
no violation of any Applicable Law denying or restricting the right of financial institutions to
transact business in any jurisdiction. If Agent believes that it may be limited in the exercise of
any rights or remedies under the Loan Documents due to any Applicable Law, Agent may appoint an
additional Person who is not so limited, as a separate collateral agent or co-collateral agent. If
Agent so appoints a collateral agent or co-collateral agent, each right and remedy intended to be
available to Agent under the Loan Documents shall also be vested in such separate agent. Every
covenant and obligation necessary to the exercise thereof by such agent shall run to and be
enforceable by it as well as Agent. Lenders shall execute and deliver such documents as Agent
deems appropriate to vest any rights or remedies in such agent. If any collateral agent or
co-collateral agent shall die or dissolve, become incapable of acting, resign or be removed, then
all the rights and remedies of such agent, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, shall vest in
and be exercised by Agent until appointment of a new agent.

12.9    Due Diligence and Non-Reliance  . Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that it has,
independently and without reliance upon Agent or any other Lenders, and based upon such documents,
information and analyses as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis of each Obligor
and its own decision to enter into this Agreement and to fund Loans and participate in LC
Obligations hereunder. Each Lender has made such inquiries concerning the Loan Documents, the
Collateral and each Obligor as such Lender feels necessary. Each Lender further acknowledges and
agrees that the other Lenders and Agent have made no representations or warranties concerning any
Obligor, any Collateral or the legality, validity, sufficiency or enforceability of any Loan
Documents or Obligations. Each Lender will, independently and without reliance upon the other
Lenders or Agent, and based upon such financial statements, documents and information as it deems
appropriate at the time, continue to make and rely upon its own credit decisions in making Loans
and participating in LC Obligations, and in taking or refraining from any action under any Loan
Documents. Except for notices, reports and other information expressly requested by a Lender,
Agent shall have no duty or responsibility to provide any Lender with any notices, reports or
certificates furnished to Agent by any Obligor or any credit or other information concerning the
affairs, financial condition, business or Properties of any Obligor (or any of its Affiliates)
which may come into possession of Agent or any of Agent s Affiliates.

12.10    Replacement of Certain Lenders  . In the event that any Lender (a) fails to fund
its Pro Rata share of any Loan or LC Obligation hereunder, and such failure is not cured within two
Business Days, (b) defaults in performing any of its obligations under the Loan Documents, or (c)
fails to give its consent to any amendment, waiver or action for which consent of all Lenders was
required and Required Lenders consented, then, in addition to any other rights and remedies that
any Person may have, Agent may, by notice to such Lender within 120 days after such event, require
such Lender to assign all of its rights and obligations under the Loan Documents to Eligible
Assignee(s) specified by Agent, pursuant to appropriate Assignment and Acceptance(s) and within 20
days after Agent s notice. Agent is irrevocably appointed as attorney-in-fact to execute any such
Assignment and Acceptance if the Lender fails to execute same. Such Lender shall be entitled to
receive, in cash, concurrently with such assignment, all amounts owed to it under the Loan
Documents, including all principal, interest and fees through the date of assignment (but excluding
any prepayment charge).

12.11    Remittance of Payments and Collections  .

12.11.1  Remittances Generally . All payments by any Lender to Agent shall be made by
the time and on the day set forth in this Agreement, in immediately available funds. If no time
for payment is specified or if payment is due on demand by Agent and request for payment is made by
Agent by 11:00 a.m. on a Business Day, payment shall be made by Lender not later than 2:00 p.m. on
such day, and if request is made after 11:00 a.m., then payment shall be made by 11:00 a.m. on the
next Business Day. Payment by Agent to any Lender shall be made by wire transfer, in the type of
funds received by Agent. Any such payment shall be subject to Agent s right of offset for any
amounts due from such Lender under the Loan Documents.

-77-

12.11.2  Failure to Pay . If any Lender fails to pay any amount when due by it to Agent
pursuant to the terms hereof, such amount shall bear interest from the due date until paid at the
rate determined by Agent as customary in the banking industry for interbank compensation. In no
event shall Borrowers be entitled to receive credit for any interest paid by a Lender to Agent.

12.11.3  Recovery of Payments . If Agent pays any amount to a Lender in the expectation
that a related payment will be received by Agent from an Obligor and such related payment is not
received, then Agent may recover such amount from each Lender that received it. If Agent
determines at any time that an amount received under any Loan Document must be returned to an
Obligor or paid to any other Person pursuant to Applicable Law or otherwise, then, notwithstanding
any other term of any Loan Document, Agent shall not be required to distribute such amount to any
Lender. If any amounts received and applied by Agent to any Obligations are later required to be
returned by Agent pursuant to Applicable Law, Lenders shall pay to Agent,  on demand , such Lender s
Pro Rata share of the amounts required to be returned.

12.12    Agent in its Individual Capacity  . As a Lender, Bank of America shall have the
same rights and remedies under the other Loan Documents as any other Lender, and the terms
 Lenders,   Required Lenders  or any similar term shall include Bank of America in its capacity as
a Lender. Each of Bank of America and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, maintain deposits
or credit balances for, invest in, lend money to, provide Bank Products to, act as trustee under
indentures of, serve as financial or other advisor to, and generally engage in any kind of business
with, Obligors and their Affiliates, as if Bank of America were any other bank, without any duty to
account therefor (including any fees or other consideration received in connection therewith) to
the other Lenders. In their individual capacity, Bank of America and its Affiliates may receive
information regarding Obligors, their Affiliates and their Account Debtors (including information
subject to confidentiality obligations), and each Lender agrees that Bank of America and its
Affiliates shall be under no obligation to provide such information to Lenders, if acquired in such
individual capacity and not as Agent hereunder.

12.13    Agent Titles  . Each Lender, other than Bank of America, that is designated (on
the cover page of this Agreement or otherwise) by Bank of America as an  Agent  or  Arranger  of
any type shall not have any right, power, responsibility or duty under any Loan Documents other
than those applicable to all Lenders, and shall in no event be deemed to have any fiduciary
relationship with any other Lender.

12.14    No Third Party Beneficiaries  . This  Section 12  is an agreement solely among
Lenders and Agent, and does not confer any rights or benefits upon Borrowers or any other Person.
As between Borrowers and Agent, any action that Agent may take under any Loan Documents shall be
conclusively presumed to have been authorized and directed by Lenders as herein provided.

SECTION 13. BENEFIT OF AGREEMENT; ASSIGNMENTS AND PARTICIPATIONS 

13.1    Successors and Assigns  . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the
benefit of Borrowers, Agent and Lenders and their respective successors and assigns, except that
(a) no Borrower shall have the right to assign its rights or delegate its obligations under any
Loan Documents, and (b) any assignment by a Lender must be made in compliance with  Section 13.3 .
Agent may treat the Person which made any Loan as the owner thereof for all purposes until such
Person makes an assignment in accordance with  Section 13.3 . Any authorization or consent of a
Lender shall be conclusive and binding on any subsequent transferee or assignee of such Lender.

13.2    Participations  .

13.2.1  Permitted Participants; Effect . Any Lender may, in the ordinary course of its
business and in accordance with Applicable Law, at any time sell to a financial institution
(  Participant  ) a participating interest in the rights and obligations of such Lender under
any Loan Documents. Despite

-78-

any sale by a Lender of participating interests to a Participant, such Lender s obligations
under the Loan Documents shall remain unchanged, such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the
other parties hereto for performance of such obligations, such Lender shall remain the holder of
its Revolver Loans and Revolver Commitments for all purposes, all amounts payable by Borrowers
shall be determined as if such Lender had not sold such participating interests, and Borrowers and
Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with the Loan
Documents. Each Lender shall be solely responsible for notifying its Participants of any matters
under the Loan Documents, and Agent and the other Lenders shall not have any obligation or
liability to any such Participant. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a
Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of  Section 5.8  unless Borrowers agree otherwise in
writing.

13.2.2  Voting Rights . Each Lender shall retain the sole right to approve, without the
consent of any Participant, any amendment, waiver or other modification of any Loan Documents other
than that which forgives principal, interest or fees, reduces the stated interest rate or fees
payable with respect to any Loan or Revolver Commitment in which such Participant has an interest,
postpones the Commitment Termination Date or any date fixed for any regularly scheduled payment of
principal, interest or fees on such Loan or Revolver Commitment, or releases any Borrower,
Guarantor or substantial portion of the Collateral.

13.2.3  Benefit of Set-Off . Borrowers agree that each Participant shall have a right
of set-off in respect of its participating interest to the same extent as if such interest were
owing directly to a Lender, and each Lender shall also retain the right of set-off with respect to
any participating interests sold by it. By exercising any right of set-off, a Participant agrees
to share with Lenders all amounts received through its set-off, in accordance with  Section 12.5  as
if such Participant were a Lender.

13.3    Assignments  .

13.3.1  Permitted Assignments . A Lender may assign to any Eligible Assignee any of its
rights and obligations under the Loan Documents, as long as (a) each assignment is of a constant,
and not a varying, percentage of the transferor Lender s rights and obligations under the Loan
Documents and, in the case of a partial assignment, is in a minimum principal amount of $2,000,000
(unless otherwise agreed by Agent in its discretion) and integral multiples of $500,000 in excess
of that amount; (b) except in the case of an assignment in whole of a Lender s rights and
obligations, the aggregate amount of the Revolver Commitments retained by the transferor Lender be
at least $4,000,000 (unless otherwise agreed by Agent in its discretion); and (c) the parties to
each such assignment shall execute and deliver to Agent, for its acceptance and recording, an
Assignment and Acceptance. Nothing herein shall limit the right of a Lender to pledge or assign
any rights under the Loan Documents to (i) any Federal Reserve Bank or the United States Treasury
as collateral security pursuant to Regulation A of the Board of Governors and any Operating
Circular issued by such Federal Reserve Bank, or (ii) counterparties to swap agreements relating to
any Loans;  provided ,  however , that any payment by Borrowers to the assigning Lender
in respect of any Obligations assigned as described in this sentence shall satisfy Borrowers 
obligations hereunder to the extent of such payment, and no such assignment shall release the
assigning Lender from its obligations hereunder.

13.3.2  Effect; Effective Date . Upon delivery to Agent of an assignment notice in the
form of  Exhibit C  and a processing fee of $5,000, such assignment shall become effective as
specified in the notice, if it complies with this  Section 13.3 . From the effective date of such
assignment, the Eligible Assignee shall for all purposes be a Lender under the Loan Documents, and
shall have all rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder. Upon consummation of an assignment,
the transferor Lender, Agent and Borrowers shall make appropriate arrangements for issuance of
replacement and/or new Notes, as appropriate.

-79-

13.4    Tax Treatment   .  If any interest in a Loan Document is transferred to a Transferee
that is organized under the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United States or any state or
district thereof, the transferor Lender shall cause such Transferee, concurrently with the
effectiveness of such transfer, to comply with the provisions of  Section 5.9 .

13.5    Representation of Lenders  . Each Lender represents and warrants to each Borrower,
Agent and other Lenders that none of the consideration used by it to fund its Loans or to
participate in any other transactions under this Agreement constitutes for any purpose of ERISA or
Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code assets of any  plan  as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA
or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code and the interests of such Lender in and under the Loan
Documents shall not constitute plan assets under ERISA.

SECTION 14. MISCELLANEOUS 

14.1 Consents, Amendments and Waivers .

14.1.1  Amendment . No modification of any Loan Document, including any extension or
amendment of a Loan Document or any waiver of a Default or Event of Default, shall be effective
without the prior written agreement of Agent, with the consent of Required Lenders, and each
Obligor party to such Loan Document; provided, however, that

(a) without the prior written consent of Agent, no modification shall be effective with
respect to any provision in a Loan Document that relates to any rights, duties or discretion of
Agent;

(b) without the prior written consent of Issuing Bank, no modification shall be effective with
respect to any LC Obligations or  Section 2.2 ;

(c) without the prior written consent of each affected Lender, no modification shall be
effective that would (i) increase the Revolver Commitment of such Lender; or (ii) reduce the amount
of, or waive or delay payment of, any principal, interest or fees payable to such Lender; and

(d) without the prior written consent of all Lenders (except a defaulting Lender as provided
in  Section 4.2 ), no modification shall be effective that would (i) extend the Revolver Termination
Date; (ii) alter  Section 5.5, 7.1  (except to add Collateral), or  14.1.1 ; (iii) amend the
definitions of Borrowing Base (and the defined terms used in such definition), Pro Rata or Required
Lenders; (iv) increase any advance rate, decrease the Availability Block, or increase total
Revolver Commitments; (vi) release Collateral with a book value greater than $2,000,000 during any
calendar year, except as currently contemplated by the Loan Documents; or (vii) release any Obligor
from liability for any Obligations, if such Obligor is Solvent at the time of the release.

14.1.2  Limitations . The agreement of Borrowers shall not be necessary to the
effectiveness of any modification of a Loan Document that deals solely with the rights and duties
of Lenders, Agent and/or Issuing Bank as among themselves. Only the consent of the parties to any
agreement relating to a Bank Product shall be required for any modification of such agreement, and
no Affiliate of a Lender that is party to a Bank Product agreement shall have any other right to
consent to or participate in any manner in modification of any other Loan Document. The making of
any Loans during the existence of a Default or Event of Default shall not be deemed to constitute a
waiver of such Default or Event of Default, nor to establish a course of dealing. Any waiver or
consent granted by Lenders hereunder shall be effective only if in writing, and then only in the
specific instance and for the specific purpose for which it is given.

14.1.3  Payment for Consents . No Borrower will, directly or indirectly, pay any
remuneration or other thing of value, whether by way of additional interest, fee or otherwise, to
any Lender (in its capacity as a Lender hereunder) as consideration for agreement by such Lender
with any

-80-

modification of any Loan Documents, unless such remuneration or value is concurrently paid, on
the same terms, on a Pro Rata basis to all Lenders providing their consent.

14.2    Indemnity  . EACH BORROWER SHALL INDEMNIFY AND HOLD HARMLESS THE INDEMNITEES
AGAINST ANY CLAIMS THAT MAY BE INCURRED BY OR ASSERTED AGAINST ANY INDEMNITEE, INCLUDING CLAIMS
ARISING FROM THE NEGLIGENCE OF AN INDEMNITEE. In no event shall any party to a Loan Document have
any obligation thereunder to indemnify or hold harmless an Indemnitee with respect to a Claim that
is determined in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to result
from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee.

14.3    Notices and Communications  .

14.3.1  Notice Address . Subject to  Section 4.1.4 , all notices, requests and other
communications by or to a party hereto shall be in writing and shall be given to any Borrower, at
Borrower Agent s address shown on the signature pages hereof, and to any other Person at its
address shown on the signature pages hereof (or, in the case of a Person who becomes a Lender after
the Closing Date, at the address shown on its Assignment and Acceptance), or at such other address
as a party may hereafter specify by notice in accordance with this  Section 14.3 . Each such notice,
request or other communication shall be effective only (a) if given by facsimile transmission, when
transmitted to the applicable facsimile number, if confirmation of receipt is received; (b) if
given by mail, three Business Days after deposit in the U.S. mail, with first-class postage
pre-paid, addressed to the applicable address; or (c) if given by personal delivery, when duly
delivered to the notice address with receipt acknowledged. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no
notice to Agent pursuant to  Section 2.1.4, 2.2, 3.1.2, 4.1.1  or  5.2.3  shall be effective until
actually received by the individual to whose attention at Agent such notice is required to be sent.
Any written notice, request or other communication that is not sent in conformity with the
foregoing provisions shall nevertheless be effective on the date actually received by the noticed
party. Any notice received by Borrower Agent shall be deemed received by all Borrowers.

14.3.2  Electronic Communications; Voice Mail . Electronic mail and internet websites
may be used only for routine communications, such as financial statements, Borrowing Base
Certificates and other information required by  Section 10.1.2 , administrative matters, distribution
of Loan Documents for execution, and matters permitted under  Section 4.1.4 . Agent and Lenders make
no assurances as to the privacy and security of electronic communications. Electronic and voice
mail may not be used as effective notice under the Loan Documents.

14.3.3  Non-Conforming Communications . Agent and Lenders may rely upon any notices
purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower even if such notices were not made in a manner
specified herein, were incomplete or were not confirmed, or if the terms thereof, as understood by
the recipient, varied from a later confirmation. Each Borrower shall indemnify and hold harmless
each Indemnitee from any liabilities, losses, costs and expenses arising from any telephonic
communication purportedly given by or on behalf of a Borrower.

14.4    Performance of Borrowers  Obligations  . Agent may, in its discretion at any time
and from time to time, at Borrowers  expense, pay any amount or do any act required of a Borrower
under any Loan Documents or otherwise lawfully requested by Agent to (a) enforce any Loan Documents
or collect any Obligations; (b) protect, insure, maintain or realize upon any Collateral; or (c)
defend or maintain the validity or priority of Agent s Liens in any Collateral, including any
payment of a judgment, insurance premium, warehouse charge, finishing or processing charge, or
landlord claim, or any discharge of a Lien. All payments, costs and expenses (including
Extraordinary Expenses) of Agent under this Section shall be reimbursed to Agent by Borrowers,  on
demand , with interest from the date incurred to the date of payment thereof at the Default Rate
applicable to Base Rate Revolver Loans. Any payment made or

-81-

action taken by Agent under this Section shall be without prejudice to any right to assert an
Event of Default or to exercise any other rights or remedies under the Loan Documents.

14.5    Credit Inquiries  . Each Borrower hereby authorizes Agent and Lenders (but they
shall have no obligation) to respond to usual and customary credit inquiries from third parties
concerning any Borrower or Subsidiary.

14.6    Severability  . Wherever possible, each provision of the Loan Documents shall be
interpreted in such manner as to be valid under Applicable Law. If any provision is found to be
invalid under Applicable Law, it shall be ineffective only to the extent of such invalidity and the
remaining provisions of the Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect.

14.7    Cumulative Effect; Conflict of Terms  . The provisions of the Loan Documents are
cumulative. The parties acknowledge that the Loan Documents may use several different limitations,
tests or measurements to regulate the same or similar matters, and they agree that these are
cumulative and that each must be performed as provided. Except as otherwise specifically provided
in another Loan Document (by specific reference to the applicable provision of this Agreement), if
any provision contained herein is in direct conflict with any provision in another Loan Document,
the provision herein shall govern and control.

14.8    Counterparts; Facsimile Signatures  . Any Loan Document may be executed in
counterparts, each of which taken together shall constitute one instrument. Loan Documents may be
executed and delivered by facsimile, and they shall have the same force and effect as manually
signed originals. Agent may require confirmation by a manually-signed original, but failure to
request or deliver same shall not limit the effectiveness of any facsimile signature.

14.9    Entire Agreement  . Time is of the essence of the Loan Documents. The Loan
Documents embody the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter thereof
and supersede all prior understandings regarding the same subject matter.

14.10    Obligations of Lenders  . The obligations of each Lender hereunder are several,
and no Lender shall be responsible for the obligations or Revolver Commitments of any other Lender.
Amounts payable hereunder to each Lender shall be a separate and independent debt, and each Lender
shall be entitled, to the extent not otherwise restricted hereunder, to protect and enforce its
rights arising out of the Loan Documents. It shall not be necessary for Agent or any other Lender
to be joined as an additional party in any proceeding for such purposes. Nothing in this Agreement
and no action of Agent or Lenders pursuant to the Loan Documents shall be deemed to constitute
Agent and Lenders to be a partnership, association, joint venture or any other kind of entity, nor
to constitute control of any Borrower. Each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that in connection
with all aspects of any transaction contemplated by the Loan Documents, Borrowers, Agent, Issuing
Bank and Lenders have an arms-length business relationship that creates no fiduciary duty on the
part of Agent, Issuing Bank or any Lender, and each Borrower, Agent, Issuing Bank and Lender
expressly disclaims any fiduciary relationship.

14.11    Confidentiality  . During the term of this Agreement and for 12 months
thereafter, Agent and Lenders agree to take reasonable precautions to maintain the confidentiality
of any information that Borrowers deliver to Agent and Lenders and identify as confidential at the
time of delivery, except that Agent and any Lender may disclose such information (a) to their
respective officers, directors, employees, Affiliates and agents, including legal counsel, auditors
and other professional advisors; (b) to any party to the Loan Documents from time to time; (c)
pursuant to the order of any court or administrative agency; (d) upon the request of any
Governmental Authority exercising regulatory authority over Agent or such Lender; (e) which ceases
to be confidential, other than by an act or omission of Agent or any Lender, or which becomes
available to Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis; (f) to the extent reasonably required
in connection with any litigation relating to any Loan Documents or transactions contemplated

-82-

thereby, or otherwise as required by Applicable Law; (g) to the extent reasonably required for
the exercise of any rights or remedies under the Loan Documents; (h) to any actual or proposed
party to a Bank Product or to any Transferee, as long as such Person agrees to be bound by the
provisions of this Section; (i) to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or any
similar organization, or to any nationally recognized rating agency that requires access to
information about a Lender s portfolio in connection with ratings issued with respect to such
Lender; (j) to any investor or potential investor in an Approved Fund that is a Lender or
Transferee, but solely for use by such investor to evaluate an investment in such Approved Fund, or
to any manager, servicer or other Person in connection with its administration of any such Approved
Fund; or (k) with the consent of Borrowers. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Agent and Lenders may
issue and disseminate to the public general information describing this credit facility, including
the names and addresses of Borrowers and a general description of Borrowers  businesses, and may
use Borrowers  names in advertising and other promotional materials.

14.12    GOVERNING LAW  .  THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS, UNLESS OTHERWISE
SPECIFIED, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO ANY
CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES (BUT GIVING EFFECT TO FEDERAL LAWS RELATING TO NATIONAL BANKS). 

14.13    Consent to Forum; Arbitration  .

14.13.1  Forum .  EACH BORROWER HEREBY CONSENTS TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY
FEDERAL OR STATE COURT SITTING IN OR WITH JURISDICTION OVER CALIFORNIA, IN ANY PROCEEDING OR
DISPUTE RELATING IN ANY WAY TO ANY LOAN DOCUMENTS, AND AGREES THAT ANY SUCH PROCEEDING SHALL BE
BROUGHT BY IT SOLELY IN ANY SUCH COURT. EACH BORROWER IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL CLAIMS, OBJECTIONS
AND DEFENSES THAT IT MAY HAVE REGARDING SUCH COURT S PERSONAL OR SUBJECT MATTER JURISDICTION, VENUE
OR INCONVENIENT FORUM.  Nothing herein shall limit the right of Agent or any Lender to bring
proceedings against any Obligor in any other court. Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to
preclude enforcement by Agent of any judgment or order obtained in any forum or jurisdiction.

14.13.2  Arbitration . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the
contrary, any controversy or claim among the parties relating in any way to any Obligations or Loan
Documents, including any alleged tort, shall at the request of any party hereto be determined by
binding arbitration conducted in accordance with the United States Arbitration Act (Title 9 U.S.
Code). Arbitration proceedings will be determined in accordance with the Act, the then-current
rules and procedures for the arbitration of financial services disputes of the American Arbitration
Association (  AAA  ), and the terms of this Section. In the event of any inconsistency, the
terms of this Section shall control. If AAA is unwilling or unable to serve as the provider of
arbitration or to enforce any provision of this Section, Agent may designate another arbitration
organization with similar procedures to serve as the provider of arbitration. The arbitration
proceedings shall be conducted in Los Angeles or Pasadena, California. The arbitration hearing
shall commence within 90 days of the arbitration demand and close within 90 days thereafter. The
arbitration award must be issued within 30 days after close of the hearing (subject to extension by
the arbitrator for up to 60 days upon a showing of good cause), and shall include a concise written
statement of reasons for the award. The arbitrator shall give effect to applicable statutes of
limitation in determining any controversy or claim, and for these purposes, service on AAA under
applicable AAA rules of a notice of claim is the equivalent of the filing of a lawsuit. Any
dispute concerning this Section or whether a controversy or claim is arbitrable shall be determined
by the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall have the power to award legal fees to the extent provided
by this Agreement. Judgment upon an arbitration award may be entered in any court having
jurisdiction. The institution and maintenance of an action for judicial relief or pursuant to a
provisional or ancillary remedy shall not constitute a waiver of the right of any party, including
the plaintiff, to submit the controversy or

-83-

claim to arbitration if any other party contests such action for judicial relief. No
controversy or claim shall be submitted to arbitration without the consent of all parties if, at
the time of the proposed submission, such controversy or claim relates to an obligation secured by
Real Estate, but if all parties do not consent to submission of such a controversy or claim to
arbitration, it shall be determined as provided in the next sentence. At the request of any party,
a controversy or claim that is not submitted to arbitration as provided above shall be determined
by judicial reference; and if such an election is made, the parties shall designate to the court a
referee or referees selected under the auspices of the AAA in the same manner as arbitrators are
selected in AAA sponsored proceedings and the presiding referee of the panel (or the referee if
there is a single referee) shall be an active attorney or retired judge; and judgment upon the
award rendered by such referee or referees shall be entered in the court in which proceeding was
commenced. None of the foregoing provisions of this Section shall limit the right of Agent or
Lenders to exercise self-help remedies, such as setoff, foreclosure or sale of any Collateral or to
obtain provisional or ancillary remedies from a court of competent jurisdiction before, after or
during any arbitration proceeding. The exercise of a remedy does not waive the right of any party
to resort to arbitration or reference. At Agent s option, foreclosure under a Mortgage may be
accomplished either by exercise of power of sale thereunder or by judicial foreclosure.

14.14    Waivers by Borrowers  .  To the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law, each
Borrower waives (a) the right to trial by jury (which Agent and each Lender hereby also waives) in
any proceeding, claim or counterclaim of any kind relating in any way to any Loan Documents,
Obligations or Collateral; (b) presentment, demand, protest, notice of presentment, default,
non-payment, maturity, release, compromise, settlement, extension or renewal of any commercial
paper, accounts, contract rights, documents, instruments, chattel paper and guaranties at any time
held by Agent on which a Borrower may in any way be liable, and hereby ratifies anything Agent may
do in this regard; (c) notice prior to taking possession or control of any Collateral; (d) any bond
or security that might be required by a court prior to allowing Agent to exercise any rights or
remedies; (e) the benefit of all valuation, appraisement and exemption laws; (f) any claim against
Agent or any Lender, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential, exemplary or
punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) in any way relating to any Enforcement
Action, Obligations, Loan Documents or transactions relating thereto; and (g) notice of acceptance
hereof.  Each Borrower acknowledges that the foregoing waivers are a material inducement to Agent
and Lenders entering into this Agreement and that Agent and Lenders are relying upon the foregoing
in their dealings with Borrowers. Each Borrower has reviewed the foregoing waivers with its legal
counsel and has knowingly and voluntarily waived its jury trial and other rights following
consultation with legal counsel. In the event of litigation, this Agreement may be filed as a
written consent to a trial by the court.

14.15    Patriot Act Notice  . Agent and Lenders hereby notify Borrowers that pursuant to
the requirements of the Patriot Act, Agent and Lenders are required to obtain, verify and record
information that identifies each Borrower, including its legal name, address, tax ID number and
other information that will allow Agent and Lenders to identify it in accordance with the Patriot
Act. Agent and Lenders will also require information regarding each personal guarantor, if any,
and may require information regarding Borrowers  management and owners, such as legal name,
address, social security number and date of birth.

Remainder of page intentionally left blank; signatures begin on following page 

-84-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  this Agreement has been executed and delivered as of the date set forth
above.

</EX-10.9>

<EX-21>
 7
 v19133exv21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

exv21 

Exhibit 21

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT 

1. Equity Marketing Hong Kong, Ltd., a Delaware corporation ( EMHK )

2. Corinthian Marketing, Inc., a Delaware corporation

3. Logistix Limited, a United Kingdom corporation ( Logistix ) (a subsidiary of EMAK Europe)

4. Johnson Grossfield, Inc., a Delaware corporation

5. Equity Marketing, Inc., a Delaware corporation

6. Upshot, Inc., a Delaware corporation

7. SCI Promotion, Inc., a Delaware corporation

8. Logistix, Inc., a Delaware corporation

9. Pop Rocket, Inc., a Delaware corporation

10. EMAK Worldwide Service Corp., a Delaware corporation

11. EMAK Europe Holdings Limited, a United Kingdom corporation ( EMAK Europe )

12. EMAK Europe Services Limited, a United Kingdom corporation (a subsidiary of EMAK Europe)

13. EMAK Hong Kong Limited, a Hong Kong company (a subsidiary of EMHK)

14. EMAK China Limited, a Hong Kong company (a subsidiary of EMHK)

15. Virtual Video Company Limited, a United Kingdom company (a subsidiary of Logistix)

16. EMAK Asia Holding Company Limited, a Hong Kong company (a subsidiary of EMHK)

17. Megaprint Group Limited, a United Kingdom company ( MGL )(a subsidiary of EMAK Europe)

18. Megaprint Limited, a United Kingdom company (a subsidiary of MGL)

19. Megapromotions (U.K.) Limited, a United Kingdom company (a subsidiary of MGL)

20. Megapromotions Beheer BV, a Dutch company ( MBBV )(a subsidiary of MGL)

21. Megapromotions BV, a Dutch company (a subsidiary of MBBV)

22. Mint Holland BV, a Dutch company (a subsidiary of MBBV)

23. Megapromotions GmbH, a German company (a subsidiary of MBBV)

24. Promomega EURL, a French company (a subsidiary of MBBV)

25. Megapromotions Asia, Ltd., a Hong Kong company (a subsidiary of MGL)

26. Prodesign Marketing Limited, a Northern Ireland company (a subsidiary of EMAK Europe)

67

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 v19133exv23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

exv23 

Exhibit 23

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8
(Nos. 33-84592, 33-84594, 33-15493, 33-15499, 33-48539, 333-48541, 333-58773, 333-58777, 333-45414
and 333-89070) of EMAK Worldwide, Inc. of our reports dated March 30, 2006 relating to the
financial statements and financial statement schedule, which appear in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Los Angeles, California

March 30, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 v19133exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATION 

I, James L. Holbrook, Jr., certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of EMAK Worldwide, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented
in this annual report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

a. Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information related
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being
prepared;

b. Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this annual report based on
such evaluation; and

c. Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
function):

a. All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b. Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ James L. Holbrook, Jr.

James L. Holbrook, Jr.  

Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer)  

Dated: March 31, 2006

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 v19133exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2

CERTIFICATION 

I, Roy Dar, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of EMAK Worldwide, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented
in this annual report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

a. Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information related
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being
prepared;

b. Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this annual report based on
such evaluation; and

c. Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
function):

a. All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b. Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ Roy Dar

Roy Dar  

Vice President, Controller 
(Principal Accounting Officer)  

Dated: March 31, 2006

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 v19133exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of EMAK Worldwide, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the
period ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
here of (the  Report ), I, James L. Holbrook, Jr., Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company

/s/ James L. Holbrook, Jr.

James L. Holbrook, Jr.  

Chief Executive Officer  

Dated: March 31, 2006

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 12
 v19133exv32w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of EMAK Worldwide, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the
period ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
here of (the  Report ), I, Roy Dar, Principal Accounting Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant
to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company

/s/ Roy Dar

Roy Dar  

Vice President, Controller  

Dated: March 31, 2006

</EX-32.2>

