<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_888455_0001193125-06-070847_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1353336</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>262322</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>38200</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>792058</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>39</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-06-070847.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331172840
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-06-070847
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060128
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000888455
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-RETAIL STORES, NEC [5990]
		IRS NUMBER:				330479906
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0128

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-23574
		FILM NUMBER:		06730201

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		9125 REHCO RD
		CITY:			SAN DIEGO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92121
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6194537845

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		9125 REHCO RD
		CITY:			SAN DIEGO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92121

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LTJi8fqPJrMGGq5KiqkEF/W6nk7wPehcT6AhLuYGlhigcmgLHSn2LyfmimIyVAs/
 DSJ5ss1R7BZBSYQ01O6CYg==

 0001193125-06-070847.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549                     FORM 10-K              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)        OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934              For
the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006              Commission
File Number: 000-23574                     PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.        (Exact
Name of Registrant As Specified In Its Charter)          

Delaware   
     
   20-2148979    
 
     (State or Other Jurisdiction of       Incorporation or Organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     
           9125 Rehco Road,
San Diego, California 92121        (Address, Including Zip Code, of Principal Executive Offices)              (858) 453-7845        Registrant s telephone number, including area code:              Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None              Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:              Common Stock, $0.001 par value        (Title of Class)             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act).    Yes         No                   Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes           No                 Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         No                  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer,
an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerate filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.           Large accelerated filer                         Accelerated filer                           Non-accelerated filer                   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act)    Yes           No                As of July 30, 2005, the last day of the registrant s second fiscal quarter of fiscal 2005, the aggregate market value of the common stock held
by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $1.521 billion, based on the last reported sale price on the preceding business day. Shares of common stock held by each executive officer and director and by each person or group who owns 10% or
more of the outstanding common stock have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.            As of March 17, 2006, there were outstanding 57,893,803 shares of the
registrant s Common Stock, $0.001 par value.            DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: Portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the registrant s annual meeting of stockholders
expected to be held June 8, 2006 are incorporated by reference in Part III.    

Table of Contents  

TABLE OF CONTENTS          

Page      

PART I     

Item 1.   

Business   
      
  1   
 
    Item 1A.   

Risk Factors   
      
  6   
 
    Item 2.   

Properties   
      
  13   
 
    Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings   
      
  14   
 
    Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  16   

PART II     

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  17   
 
    Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data   
      
  18   
 
    Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  20   
 
    Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  29   
 
    Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  30   
 
    Item 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  30   
 
    Item 9A.   

Controls and Procedures   
      
  30   
 
    Item 9B.   

Other Information   
      
  32   

PART III     

Item 10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   
      
  33   
 
    Item 11.   

Executive Compensation   
      
  33   
 
    Item 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management   
      
  33   
 
    Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   
      
  33   
 
    Item 14.   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
      
  33   

PART IV     

Item 15.   

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  34   

Signatures    

39   

Financial Statements     
      
  F-1   
 
    Exhibit Index   

PETCO , P.A.L.S. , and
PETCO Doggie Day Camp  are trademarks of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. All other product and company names are trademarks of their respective owner.    

Table of Contents  

PART I              
  ITEM 1. BUSINESS             We are a
national specialty retailer of premium pet food, supplies and services with 779 stores in 49 states and the District of Columbia. Our pet-related products include food, supplies, grooming products, toys, novelty items, vitamins, small pets such as
fish, birds and other small animals (excluding cats and dogs), and veterinary supplies. Our strategy is to offer our customers a complete assortment of pet-related products and services at fair prices, with superior levels of customer service at
convenient locations.            Our stores offer a fun, exciting
shopping experience and generally range in size from 12,000 to 15,000 square feet. Since the middle of 2001, all new stores have been opened in our newer formats, which incorporate a more dramatic presentation of our companion animals and emphasize
higher-margin supplies categories. We have remodeled 53 stores to our newer formats since the prior year, and now have a total of 476 stores in newer formats.         
  Unless otherwise indicated, all references in this Annual Report to a fiscal year refer to the fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to
January 31 of the following year. For example, references to fiscal 2005 refer to the fiscal year beginning on January 30, 2005 and ending on January 28, 2006.            In this annual report,  PETCO,   Company,   we,   our,  and  us  refer to
PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise.             The Pet Food, Supplies and Services Industry              General.  We believe the pet food, supplies and services industry is benefiting from a number of favorable demographic trends that are continuing to support a growing pet population. The U.S. pet population has
now reached 378 million companion animals, including 143 million cats and dogs, with an estimated 63% of all U.S. households owning at least one pet, and three quarters of those households owning two or more pets. We believe the trend to
more pets and more pet-owning households will continue, driven by an increasing number of children under 18 and a growing number of empty nesters whose pets have become their new  children.  We estimate that U.S. retail sales of pet food,
supplies, small animals (excluding cats and dogs) and services increased to approximately $33 billion in 2004. We believe we are well positioned to benefit from several key growth trends within the industry.             Pet Food.  Packaged Facts, an independent provider of market research
reports, estimates that dog and cat food sales, which represent the vast majority of all pet food sales, accounted for approximately $13.8 billion in sales for 2004. Sales of premium dog and cat food represented approximately 37.9% of the total dog
and cat food market in 2003 and are expected to increase to approximately 41.2% of the total dog and cat food market by 2008. Sales of dog and cat food accounted for $607 million, or 30%, of our fiscal 2005 net sales, of which $565 million, or 93%,
was generated from premium dog and cat food sales.            Historically, the pet food industry has been dominated by national supermarket brands such as Alpo, Kal Kan and Purina, which are primarily sold through grocery stores, supermarkets, convenience stores and mass merchants. In recent years,
supermarkets  share of total pet food sales has steadily decreased as a result of competition from warehouse clubs, mass merchants and specialty pet store chains as well as the growing proportion of premium pet food sales. Premium pet foods,
such as Science Diet, Nutro and Eukanuba, currently are not sold through supermarkets, warehouse clubs or mass merchants due to manufacturers  restrictions but are sold primarily through specialty retailers like PETCO         , veterinarians and farm and feed stores.            The growth of the premium pet food market is attributable to both the
marketing of premium brands by vendors and a heightened nutritional awareness among pet owners. In recent years, premium pet food manufacturers have launched numerous new specialty food products, such as all-natural products and products  
       
   1   

Table of Contents  

for pets with sensitive skin and stomachs, as well as oral care products. Management expects expanded product offerings by premium pet food manufacturers to
continue, and that distribution of these products primarily through specialty retailers will continue to draw customers away from supermarkets and mass merchants.             Pet Supplies and Small Animals.  Based on reports from Packaged Facts, sales of pet supplies and small animals
(excluding cats and dogs) accounted for approximately $8.5 billion in sales for 2004 and will grow at a compound annual growth rate of 6.5% over the next few years. Sales of pet supplies and small animals (excluding cats and dogs) accounted for $1.3
billion, or 67.5%, of our fiscal 2005 net sales.            The market
for pet supplies consists of items such as collars and leashes, cages and habitats, toys, treats, aquatic supplies, pet carriers, vitamins and supplements, and grooming and veterinary products. The channels of distribution for pet supplies are
highly fragmented with products sold by many types of retailers, including supermarkets, warehouse clubs and other discounters, mass merchants, specialty pet store chains, direct mail and veterinarians. Specialty retailers such as PETCO, with wide
assortments of pet supplies and higher levels of customer service, represent a growing channel for sales of pet supplies.            The market for small animals (other than cats and dogs) includes sales of fish, birds, reptiles, hamsters, mice and other small pets. Because of the
overpopulation of cats and dogs and the controversial practices of some breeders, we have elected to limit our selection of animals to birds, fish, reptiles and other small animals. We do, however, participate in pet adoption programs for cats, dogs
and other animals, which are administered primarily through local animal welfare programs.             Pet Services.  Pet services are estimated to account for the remaining $10.7 billion of the overall $33 billion market projected by management for 2004. The market for pet services includes grooming, obedience
training, day care and overnight boarding, and vaccinations and other veterinary services. We offer obedience training in most of our stores, grooming in the majority of our stores and limited veterinary services, such as routine vaccinations, at a
number of stores. In fiscal 2004, we opened our first  PETCO Doggie Day Camp           to service our customers  day care needs. Services represented 5.0% of our fiscal 2005 net sales and represent an increasing portion of our net sales. We believe that offering selected pet services better
serves our customers and increases traffic flow to our stores. For fiscal 2005, services sales increased 23% from fiscal 2004.             Distribution Channels.  Our industry is highly fragmented, with an estimated 9,000 independent pet supply stores operating in the United States.
PETCO is one of only two national specialty retailers of pet food, supplies and services. Between 1991 and 2004, the last year for which data is available, specialty pet store chains such as PETCO experienced significant market share gains in the
pet food and supplies categories, largely at the expense of supermarkets. We believe that this shift primarily results from (1) the enhanced merchandising effort and product mix offered by specialty pet store chains and (2) the growing
demand for premium pet food as nutritional awareness among the general population extends to pet owners and their pets.             Business Strategy             Our strategy is to strengthen our position as a leading specialty retailer of premium pet food, supplies and services by offering our customers a complete
assortment of pet-related products and services at fair prices with superior levels of customer service at convenient locations. We intend to continue to pursue the following elements of our strategy:         

Continue To Increase Sales and Profitability.  We have increased our net sales from $1.3 billion in fiscal 2001 to $2.0 billion in fiscal 2005. We also
increased our operating income from $31.8 million in fiscal 2001, which included unusual charges and expenses totaling $58.0 million, to $141.5 million in fiscal 2005. The principal contributors to this improvement in our financial performance since
2001 include: (1) our ability to generate comparable store net sales growth, driven partly by our continuing initiative of remodeling certain stores to our newer store formats; (2) strategic expansion in both existing and new markets;
(3) innovative store formats that offer superior customer service, convenience  
          
   2   

Table of Contents  

and a fun and exciting shopping environment; (4) targeted merchandising efforts to drive sales of higher-margin pet accessories, supplies and services,
which have grown to approximately 71% of net sales in fiscal 2005, up from approximately 67% of net sales in fiscal 2001; (5) our expanding store base, which offers economies of scale and purchasing efficiencies; and (6) a broad product
offering of over 10,000 high quality pet-related products, most of which are not found in typical supermarkets or mass merchants.            

Capitalize Upon Our Maturing Store Base.  We have historically found that the most dramatic growth in a store s net sales and operating income occurs in the first five
years following a store s opening. During this store maturation phase, we have historically experienced an increase in store-level contribution from an approximate average of 6% of net sales in the store s first year to an approximate
average of over 15% of net sales in year five. More than 40% of our stores were opened in the past five years and to date our newly opened stores have been maturing in accordance with historical rates. We believe that our maturing store base
provides us with an opportunity to significantly increase our net sales and store-level operating income with only modest incremental capital expenditures for these stores.           

Expand Using Our Proven New Store Model.  We believe that the highly fragmented pet food, supplies and services market offers compelling opportunities for us to increase our
presence and gain market share. To capitalize on these opportunities and consistent with our existing strategy, we plan to increase our aggregate store square footage by 8% to 10% per year on a long-term basis, both by focusing primarily on
existing markets and by targeting one new geographic market per year. Our year-over-year increase in square footage in fiscal 2005 was 11.8%, and our total store square footage at January 28, 2006 was approximately 11.3 million square
feet. We plan to open approximately 90 new stores in fiscal 2006, or approximately 75 stores net of relocations and closings. We carefully measure each proposed store opening against demographic, economic and competitive factors. In fiscal 2006, we
intend to remodel approximately 35 of our existing stores into our newer formats, and we plan to remodel additional existing stores in the future.           

Continue Our Focus on Expanding Our Services Business.  We continue to expand our offerings of services to our customers, including grooming, canine education, day care and
vaccinations. These services broaden our relationship with customers and encourage more frequent visits to our stores, which result in additional sales of pet food, supplies and small animals (other than cats and dogs). As such, the growing services
portion of our business complements our overall customer relationship initiatives. For fiscal 2005, services sales increased 23% from fiscal 2004.           

Further Enhance Our Logistics Expertise.  Our distribution system has over one million square feet of distribution capacity, including an integrated network of three main and
six regional distribution centers. This network enables us to reduce our costs by reducing the delivered cost of merchandise and limiting the need to carry excess inventory in our stores. Our inventory control systems provide for effective
replenishment of inventory and allow us to improve in-stock levels at our stores.           

Capitalize Upon Our Brand Awareness and Highly Successful Customer Loyalty Program.  The  PETCO  brand name and our slogan  PETCO, where the pets go  are
well known by pet owners. We believe that this awareness reinforces the fun and enjoyable shopping experience that we seek to create for our customers and their pets. PETCO P.A.L.S.         , our highly successful customer loyalty program, further enhances and reinforces the
loyalty, brand awareness and satisfaction of our customers. Our P.A.L.S. members account for approximately 75% of our net sales. Our program fosters a long-term, one-on-one relationship with the customer and builds brand loyalty and customer
retention. Our program also provides us with one of the largest databases of customer information in the industry. Information on our customers  buying preferences allows us to more precisely deliver targeted marketing efforts and assists us in
more effectively catering to our customers  needs.           
   3   

Table of Contents  

Continue to Provide Superior, Knowledge-Based Customer Service.  We seek to enhance our customers  shopping experience by providing knowledgeable and friendly customer
service and creating a fun and exciting shopping environment. We seek to hire store managers and sales associates who themselves are pet owners and enthusiasts and, therefore, are more eager and better able to assist customers with their needs. We
believe it is better to hire animal lovers and train them in retail rather than hire experienced retailers and hope they like animals. We believe that our customer service differentiates us from our competitors, leading to increased sales,
attracting new customers and building customer loyalty.               Purchasing and Distribution             We currently
operate three main and six regional distribution centers. The main distribution centers are located in Mira Loma, California; Monroe, New Jersey; and Joliet, Illinois. Bulk items for all stores are either shipped to regional distribution centers for
redistribution or are sent directly to store locations. Manufacturers ship non-bulk supplies to the main distribution facilities, which we then distribute either to regional centers or directly to store locations. We also provide order fulfillment
services for our Internet customers through our three main distribution centers.             Marketing and Advertising             Our marketing
department creates and implements a wide variety of national, regional and local advertising, direct marketing and sales promotion programs. These television, radio, circular and direct mail programs are designed to increase sales and consumer
awareness of the PETCO brand name.            Our P.A.L.S. database is
integrated with our point of sale (POS) system, allowing us to track the purchasing activity and shopping habits of our P.A.L.S. cardholders. This allows us to effectively target customers with personalized direct mail or e-mail messages, to provide
promotional offers directly related to past purchases and to adjust our products and services mix to more effectively cater to our customers  needs. The breadth of understanding of customer behavior we have accumulated and continue to
accumulate has impacted our marketing, our merchandising and our vendor relationships, and allows us to enhance customer retention and heighten customer satisfaction. Our P.A.L.S. strategy is highly integrated and fully complementary with our
high-low pricing strategy, and the integration of these strategies allows us to reward our best customers with competitive retail prices while optimizing our overall operating margins.            Local store marketing activities are conducted on a regular basis in most stores. These marketing activities include store
grand opening events, in-store pet adoptions, informational seminars, school field trips, pet photos, product demonstrations, pet fairs and a variety of other local contests or cross-promotion events.            We are the naming rights sponsor for PETCO Park, a baseball stadium in San
Diego, California, which is the home of the San Diego Padres major league baseball team. As part of this arrangement, we also receive certain other promotional benefits from the San Diego Padres.             Competition             The pet food, supplies and services business is highly competitive. This competition can be categorized into three different
segments: (1) supermarkets, warehouse clubs and mass merchants; (2) specialty pet store chains; and (3) traditional pet stores and independent service providers. Our strategy is to focus our assortment on specialty products and
premium pet foods, which minimizes the potential overlap with supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and mass merchants. We believe that we compete effectively within our various geographic areas. However, some of our competitors are much larger in terms of
sales volume and have access to greater capital and management resources than we do.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

    Suppliers and Vendors             We purchase most of our merchandise directly from specialty suppliers and manufacturers of national brands. We purchase the majority of our pet food
products from three vendors: Hill s Pet Products, Inc. (which produces Science Diet), Nutro Products, Inc. and The Iams Company. Supplies of products from these vendors accounted for approximately 8%, 8% and 7%, respectively, of our net sales
in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004. While we do not maintain long-term supply contracts with any of our vendors, we believe that we enjoy a favorable and stable relationship with each of these vendors.            Many of the premium pet food brands we offer, such as Science Diet, Nutro and
Eukanuba, are not presently available to supermarkets, warehouse clubs or mass merchants due to manufacturers  restrictions. One of our pet food vendors, The Iams Company, distributes its Iams brand of pet food to supermarkets, warehouse clubs
and mass merchants across the country. The Eukanuba brand of premium pet food, which is also manufactured by The Iams Company, continues to be sold exclusively by specialty channels such as PETCO.             Information Systems             Our integrated information systems provide our management team with timely information on sales trends, inventory tracking
and operational data at the individual store level. These systems empower regional, district and store managers to increase sales, control inventory and enhance customer satisfaction. Our in-store POS system tracks all sales by stockkeeping unit
(SKU) using bar codes and allows management to compare current performance against historical performance and current year s budget on a daily basis. The information gathered by this system supports automatic replenishment of in-store inventory
from our main and regional distribution centers and is integrated into product buying decisions. Store labor planning and visual presentation levels are also supported by sales management information systems. We use Electronic Data Interchange (EDI)
with a majority of suppliers for efficient transmittal of purchase orders, shipping notices and invoices. Management believes that the systems we have developed enable us to continue to improve customer service, operational efficiency and
management s ability to monitor critical performance indicators. We continue to invest in supply chain technologies, human resources management, financial planning tools and continued improvement to the POS systems located in all stores.
            Internet Operations             We operate the e-commerce site www.petco.com, which complements our retail
stores, increases brand awareness of our products and provides our customers with pet-related content and community. The information contained or incorporated in our web site is not a part of this Annual Report.             Trademarks and Licenses             We have registered numerous service marks and trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We believe the
PETCO trademark has become an important component in our merchandising and marketing strategy. We believe we have all licenses necessary to conduct our business.             Employees             As of January 28, 2006, we employed approximately 17,900 associates, of whom approximately 9,900 were employed full-time. Approximately 92% of our
employees were employed in stores or in direct field supervision, approximately 4% in distribution centers and approximately 4% in our national support center in San Diego. We are not party to any collective bargaining arrangements, and we believe
our labor relations are generally good.             Regulation             The transportation and sale of small animals is governed by various state and
local regulations. To date, these regulations have not had a material effect on our business or operations. Prior to the opening of each store,  
       
   5   

Table of Contents  

we review the regulations of the relevant state and local governments. We then ensure ongoing compliance by keeping apprised of industry publications and
maintaining contacts with our aquatics and small animal suppliers and the appropriate regulatory agency within each relevant state and local government.             Available Information             Our Internet address is www.petco.com. We make available free of charge through our Internet web site our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.             
  ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS              Certain Cautionary
Statements             Market data used throughout this Annual Report,
including information relating to our relative position in the pet food, supplies and services retailing industry, is based on the good faith estimates of management, which estimates are based upon their review of internal surveys, independent
industry publications and other publicly available information, including Packaged Facts reports and information prepared by the American Pet Products Manufacturers Association and Business Communications Company, Inc. Although we believe that these
sources are reliable, we do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of this information, and we have not independently verified this information.            Some of the statements in this Annual Report, including, but not limited to,  Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations,  are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are therefore
entitled to the protection of the safe harbor provisions of these laws. We generally identify forward-looking statements in this Annual Report using words like  believe,   intend,   target,   expect, 
 estimate,   may,   should,   plan,   project,   contemplate,   anticipate,   predict  or similar expressions. You can also identify forward-looking statements by
discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our or our industry s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be
materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed
below.            You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements, which reflect management s view only as of the date of this Annual Report. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, and the rules and regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, we do not plan to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements after the date of this Annual Report, whether as a result of any new information, future events or otherwise.             If we are unable to profitably open and operate new stores, maintain the profitability of
our existing stores and successfully complete our store remodel program, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.             One of our strategies is to open new stores by focusing on both existing markets and by targeting new geographic markets. We have opened between 50 and 89
stores per year (not including closures of existing stores) between fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2005. We plan to increase our aggregate store square footage by 8% to 10% per year on a long-term basis, both by focusing on existing markets and by
targeting one new geographic market per year. Our year-over-year increase in square footage in fiscal 2005 was 11.8%, and our total store square footage at January 28, 2006 was approximately 11.3 million square feet. We plan to open
approximately 90 new stores in fiscal 2006, or approximately 75 stores net of relocations and closings.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

   There can be no assurance that we will be able to open stores at this rate. The rate of our expansion
will depend on several factors, including general economic and business conditions affecting consumer confidence and spending, the availability of desirable locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the availability of qualified
personnel and our ability to manage the operational aspects of our growth. The rate of our expansion will also depend on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn will depend in large part on cash flow generated by our business and the
availability of equity and debt capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms or at all. Moreover, our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes
contain provisions that restrict the amount of debt we may incur in the future. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital, we may be unable to open additional stores as planned, which may adversely affect our results of operations.
           Our continued growth also depends, to a significant degree, on
our ability to increase sales in our new and existing stores. Our comparable store net sales increased by 5.6%, 6.2% and 2.7% for fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. As a result of new store openings in existing markets and because mature
stores will represent an increasing proportion of our store base over time, our comparable store net sales increases in future periods may be lower than historical levels or our comparable store net sales may not increase at all.            There also can be no assurance that our existing stores will maintain their
current levels of sales and profitability or that new stores will generate sales levels necessary to achieve store-level profitability, much less profitability comparable to that of existing stores. New stores that we open in our existing markets
may draw customers from our existing stores and may have lower sales growth relative to stores opened in new markets. New stores also may face greater competition and have lower anticipated sales volumes relative to previously opened stores during
their comparable years of operations. These factors, together with increased pre-opening expenses at our new stores, may reduce our average store contribution and operating margins. In addition, we are opening new stores in, and are remodeling some
of our existing stores into, our newer format, which incorporates our most recent merchandising strategies. There can be no assurance that our newer formats will be as or more profitable than our existing stores, and may be less profitable than
historical levels for our other stores. If we are unable to profitably open and operate new stores and maintain the profitability of our existing stores, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.             We may be unable to successfully execute our expansion strategy or manage and sustain our
growth and, as a result, our business may be harmed.             Our
ability to open new stores depends on a number of factors, including:         

adequate capital resources for leasehold improvements, fixtures, inventory and pre-opening expenses;           

our ability to locate and obtain favorable store sites and negotiate acceptable lease terms;           

our ability to obtain and distribute adequate product supplies to our stores, including by expanding our distribution facilities;           

our ability to hire, train and retain skilled managers and personnel; and           

our ability to continue to upgrade our information and other operating systems to control the anticipated growth and expanded operations.              Our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior
subordinated notes also contain covenants that may restrict or impair our growth plans. We currently expect to finance our store expansion plans from cash flow from operations, lease financing and capacity under our senior credit facility. To the
extent that we are unable to obtain adequate financing for new store growth on acceptable terms, our ability to open new stores will be negatively impacted. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our current plans for
the opening of new stores. In addition, our failure to expand our distribution facilities or other internal systems or procedures in accordance with our growth plans, or difficulties we may incur in operating our distribution facilities, could
adversely affect our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely fashion. As a result, our ability to support our planned new store growth may be harmed.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, we routinely evaluate our strategic alternatives with respect to each of our stores and our
other operating assets and investments. In connection with this evaluation, we may elect to close stores or to sell or otherwise dispose of selected assets or investments. Excluding store relocations, we closed two stores in fiscal 2003, one store
in fiscal 2004 and nine stores in fiscal 2005. There can be no assurance that any future sale or disposition would be achieved on terms favorable to us because we incur closing costs or may lose sales to our competitors as a result.             Our level of debt may limit the cash flow available for our operations and place us at a
competitive disadvantage.             As of January 28, 2006, our
debt consisted primarily of (1) $60.0 million outstanding under our senior revolving credit facility (total available revolving credit of $200.0 million (reduced by the outstanding amount of letters of credit of $30.1 million at
January 28, 2006) with an option to increase the available credit by an additional $125.0 million, subject to certain conditions) and (2) $89.3 million in principal amount of our senior subordinated notes. Our level of indebtedness has
important consequences. For example, our level of indebtedness may:         

require us to use a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to use for working
capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;           

limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments, which may limit our ability to carry out our business
strategy;           

result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase on our floating rate borrowings; or           

heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business or in the general economy and restrict us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions.
              The agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our
business.             The agreement governing our senior credit
facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes contain a number of covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take
advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things:         

incur more debt;           

pay dividends, redeem or repurchase our stock or make other distributions;           

make acquisitions or investments;           

enter into transactions with affiliates;           

merge or consolidate with others;           

dispose of assets or use asset sale proceeds;           

create liens on our assets; and           

extend credit.              If compliance with our debt obligations materially hinders our ability to operate our business and adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose
market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may suffer.             Our failure to satisfy covenants in our debt instruments would cause a default under those instruments.             In addition to imposing restrictions on our business and operations, our debt instruments include a number of covenants relating to financial ratios and
tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by  
       
   8   

Table of Contents  

events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants would result in a default
under these instruments. An event of default would permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. Moreover, the lenders under our senior credit facility would have the
option to terminate any obligation to make further extensions of credit under our senior credit facility. If we are unable to repay debt to our senior lenders, these lenders could proceed directly against our assets.             The loss of any of our three key vendors, or of our exclusive distribution arrangements
with our vendors, would negatively impact our business.             We
purchase significant amounts of products from three key vendors: Hill s Pet Products, Inc. (which produces Science Diet), Nutro Products, Inc. and The Iams Company. Supplies of products from these vendors accounted for approximately 8%, 8% and
7%, respectively, of our net sales in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004. We do not maintain long-term supply contracts with any of our vendors. While we believe that our vendor relationships are satisfactory, any vendor could discontinue selling to us at
any time. The loss of any of our three key vendors or any other significant vendors of premium pet food or pet supplies offered by us would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.            In addition, a change in how our key products are distributed could have a
material adverse effect on our business. It could materially adversely affect our business if any premium pet food manufacturers were to make premium pet food products widely available in supermarkets or through mass merchants, or if the premium
brands currently available to supermarkets and mass merchants were to increase their market share at the expense of the premium brands sold only through specialty pet food and supplies retailers.            None of the premium pet food brands that we purchase from Hill s Pet
Products, Inc. and Nutro Products, Inc. is widely available in supermarkets, warehouse clubs or mass merchants. One of our pet food vendors, The Iams Company, distributes its Iams brand of pet food to supermarkets, warehouse clubs and mass merchants
across the country. The Eukanuba brand of premium pet food, which is also manufactured by The Iams Company, continues to be sold exclusively through specialty channels such as PETCO.            Our principal vendors also currently provide us with certain incentives such as volume purchasing, trade discounts,
cooperative advertising and market development funds. A reduction or discontinuance of these incentives would increase our costs and could reduce our profitability.            We also purchase significant amounts of pet supplies from a number of vendors with limited supply capabilities. There can be
no assurance that our current pet supply vendors will be able to accommodate our anticipated growth and expansion of our stores. We continually seek to expand our base of pet supply vendors and to identify new pet-related products. An inability of
our existing vendors to provide products in a timely or cost-effective manner could impair our business, financial condition and results of operations.             Competition in the markets in which we operate is strong and if we are unable to compete effectively, our ability to generate sales may suffer and our operating income
and net earnings would decline.             The pet food and supplies
retailing industry is highly competitive. We compete with a number of specialty pet store chains and traditional pet stores. We also compete with supermarkets, warehouse clubs and mass merchants. Many of these competitors are larger and have access
to greater capital and management resources than we do.            There
can be no assurance that in the future we will not face greater competition from national, regional and local retailers. In particular, if any of our major competitors seeks to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or by introducing
additional products, we may be required to reduce prices on our key products in order to remain competitive, which may negatively impact our profitability.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

    A prolonged economic downturn could result in reduced sales and lower revenues and profitability.             Purchases of pet-related supplies may be affected by prolonged, negative
trends in the general economy that adversely affect consumer spending. Any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income in general may affect companies in pet-related and other retail industries more significantly than companies in
industries that rely less on discretionary consumer spending. In addition, due to our level of debt we are more susceptible to some of these adverse economic effects than are some of our competitors that have greater financial and other resources
than we do.             Our operating results could be harmed if we are unable to
integrate acquired companies into our operations.             The pet
food and supplies retailing industry is highly fragmented. We may pursue expansion and acquisition opportunities in the future, and we must efficiently integrate and combine operations of acquired companies to realize the anticipated benefits of
acquisitions. To be successful, the integration process requires us to achieve the benefits of combining the companies, including generating operating efficiencies and synergies and eliminating or reducing redundant costs. Since we often have
limited prior knowledge of acquired companies, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions will be fully realized without incurring unanticipated costs or diverting management s attention from our core
operations. Our operating results could be harmed if we are unable to efficiently integrate newly acquired companies into our operations. Any future acquisitions also could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, or the
incurrence of additional debt or the assumption of contingent liabilities.             We have made investments in the past and may make investments in the future without being able to achieve an adequate return, if any, on our investment.             In the past we have made, and in the future we may make, investments in strategic ventures or other complementary businesses
in an effort to expand internationally or to otherwise grow our business. These investments typically involve many of the same risks posed by acquisitions, particularly those risks associated with the diversion of our resources, the inability of the
new venture to generate sufficient revenues, the management of relationships with third parties and potential expenses. Strategic ventures have the added risk that the other strategic venture partners may have economic, business or legal interests
or objectives that are inconsistent with our interests and objectives. Although we have no present plans to make any such investment, there can be no assurance that any investment we make in the future would achieve an adequate return, if any. In
addition, in the past we have terminated, and in the future we may terminate, our relationship in a strategic venture after we have made substantial investments in that strategic venture.             If we are required to restructure our operations to comply with regulations governing our business, it could have a material effect on
our business and operations.             The transportation and sale
of small animals is governed by various state and local regulations. These laws vary from state to state and are enforced by the courts and by regulatory authorities with broad discretion. While we seek to structure our operations to comply with the
laws and regulations of each state in which we operate, there can be no assurance that, given varying and uncertain interpretations of these laws, we would be found to be in compliance in all states. A determination that we are in violation of
applicable laws in any state in which we operate could require us to restructure our operations to comply with the requirements of that state, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.             Negative publicity arising from claims that we do not properly care for animals we sell
could adversely affect how we are perceived by the public and reduce our revenues and profitability.             From time to time we are subject to claims or complaints that we do not properly care for some of the companion animals we sell, which may include birds,
fish, reptiles and other small animals. Given the large  
       
   10   

Table of Contents  

number of small animals we sell, deaths or injuries sometimes occur while they are in our care. As a result, we may be subject to claims that our animal care
practices, or the related training of our associates, may not provide the proper level of care. Any such claims or complaints, as well as any related news reports, could cause negative publicity, which in turn could harm our business and have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.             We depend on key
personnel, and if we lose the services of any of our principal executive officers, including Mr. Devine, our Chairman, Mr. Myers, our Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Hall, our President and Chief Operating Officer, we may not be able
to run our business effectively.             We are dependent upon the
efforts of our principal executive officers. In particular, we are dependent upon the management and leadership of Brian K. Devine, our Chairman, James M. Myers, our Chief Executive Officer, and Bruce C. Hall, our President and Chief Operating
Officer. The loss of Mr. Devine, Mr. Myers, Mr. Hall or certain of our other principal executive officers could affect our ability to run our business effectively.            Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the
future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we can retain our personnel. The loss of a member of senior management requires the remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial
attention to seeking a replacement. The inability to fill vacancies in our senior executive positions on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which would negatively impact our results of operations.
            We have been named as a party to several class action and derivative action
lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which could require time and attention from certain members of management and result in significant legal expenses. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of these lawsuits could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.             On April 18, 2005, we and our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer were named as defendants in a purported class action filed in
United States District Court for the Southern District of California alleging violations of Sections 10 and 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The named plaintiff purports to represent a class of purchasers of our stock during the period
November 18, 2004 to April 14, 2005, and alleges that during such period the defendants misrepresented our financial position and that the plaintiff and the purported class of purchasers during that period were damaged by paying
artificially and falsely inflated prices for our stock. Over the next several weeks, three additional purported class actions were filed in the same court alleging essentially the same claims against us and our officers and adding our Chairman as a
defendant. These cases were consolidated, and in October 2005 a consolidated complaint was filed extending the class period from August 18, 2004 to August 25, 2005, adding additional but similar causes of action, and naming additional
defendants, including our President and Chief Operating Officer, several of our Senior Vice Presidents, several former and current members of our Board of Directors, and two of our former stockholders. In January 2006, the defendants filed a motion
to dismiss the consolidated complaint on the ground that it failed to state facts sufficient to state a claim under the securities laws. A hearing on the motion is scheduled for May 22, 2006.            On April 22, 2005, an alleged owner of our stock derivatively sued all
our directors and our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, purportedly on our behalf, alleging that such officers and directors engaged in breaches of fiduciary, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets,
unjust enrichment and other violations of California law during the period November 18, 2004 to the present. Also on April 22, 2005, another shareholder derivative action was filed in Superior Court of the State of California for the
County of San Diego on behalf of another alleged owner of our stock against the same defendants and with substantially similar allegations to those described above. These actions have been consolidated. In August 2005, the defendants moved to
dismiss the consolidated complaint on the ground that the stockholders had failed to make a demand on the Company s Board and failed to adequately allege that a demand was excused. The Court granted the motion but gave plaintiffs leave to
amend. The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint which defendants have again moved to dismiss. A hearing on the defendants  motion is now scheduled for April 2006.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

   While we have tendered these matters to our insurance carriers, the expense of defending such litigation
may be costly and divert attention by certain members of management from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows, resulting in a decline in the market price of our
common stock. In addition, though we believe that any damages, if any, would be covered by our insurance, there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome in such litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and cash flows, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock.             Terrorism and the uncertainty of war may have a material adverse effect on our operating results.             Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may
affect the operations of the United States securities markets, the markets in which we operate and our operations and profitability. Further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses may occur. The potential near-term and
long-term effect these attacks may have for our customers, the markets for our services and the U.S. economy are uncertain. The consequences of any terrorist attacks, or any armed conflicts which may result, are unpredictable, and we may not be able
to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business.             Future
sales of shares of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price.             If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or if there is a perception that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. As of
March 17, 2006, we had 57,893,803 shares of common stock outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are freely tradable in the public market without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, unless the shares are held by
 affiliates  of ours as such term is defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act.            We also have 6,142,054 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our stock option and incentive plans, of which 4,489,800 shares were subject to outstanding options and 360,925 shares were subject to unvested
restricted stock units as of March 17, 2006. In March 2002, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 to register all of the shares of common stock which could be purchased upon the exercise of stock options outstanding on that date and all
other shares of common stock reserved for future issuance under our stock option and incentive plans. Accordingly, shares issued upon exercise of such options are freely tradable by holders who are not our affiliates and, subject to the volume and
other limitations of Rule 144, by holders who are affiliates.             The price of
our common stock may be volatile.             Since our initial public
offering in February 2002, the price at which our common stock has traded has been subject to significant fluctuation. The market price for our common stock in the future may continue to be volatile. In addition, the stock market periodically
experiences significant price and volume fluctuations that in many instances have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of specific companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular
company s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against that company, and we are currently subject to such litigation. The current and any similar litigation instituted against us in the future, could result in
substantial costs and divert management s attention and resources from our core business.             Our stock price may be adversely affected because our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter.             The timing of new store openings, related pre-opening expenses and the amount of revenue contributed by new and existing stores may cause our quarterly
results of operations to fluctuate. Our business is also subject to seasonal fluctuation. Historically, we have realized a higher portion of our net sales during the month of December than during the other months of the year. If our quarterly
revenue and operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock could fall substantially.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

   Operating results also may vary depending on a number of factors, many of which are outside our control,
including:         

changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors;           

the hiring and retention of key personnel;           

wage and cost pressures;           

changes in fuel prices or electrical rates;           

costs related to acquisitions of businesses; and           

seasonal and general economic factors.               Takeover defense provisions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.             Various provisions of the Delaware general corporation law, or the DGCL, and of our corporate governance documents may
inhibit changes in control not approved by our board of directors and may have the effect of depriving our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock in the event of an attempted hostile
takeover. In addition, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions include:         

a classified board of directors;           

a prohibition on stockholder action through written consents;           

a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by our board of directors, our chairman or our president;           

advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; and           

availability of  blank check  preferred stock.               We incur significant expenses as a result of being a public company.             The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq, have required changes in corporate governance
practices of public companies. These new rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase, our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly.             
  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES             We lease
all of our store and distribution center locations. The original lease terms for our stores generally range from ten to fifteen years, with many of these leases containing renewal options. Leases on 119 stores expire within the next three years. Of
these leases, 85 contain renewal options.            Our headquarters,
located in San Diego, California, consists of three owned facilities comprising a total of 156,000 square feet. We also lease three main and six regional distribution centers. Our three main distribution centers collectively occupy approximately
950,000 square feet of space in Monroe, New Jersey; Joliet, Illinois; and Mira Loma, California under leases that expire in May 2018, March 2010 and September 2013, respectively. Our six regional distribution centers collectively occupy
approximately 290,000 square feet of space in Stockton, California; Portland, Oregon; Mansfield, Massachusetts; Garland, Texas; Denver, Colorado; and Orlando Florida under leases that expire in April 2009, February 2007, December
2008, October 2009, July 2015 and February 2016 respectively. Except with respect to the leases for our Monroe, New Jersey; Stockton, California; Portland, Oregon; and Mansfield, Massachusetts facilities, all of our distribution center
leases contain a renewal option.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

   Below is a table listing, for our 779 stores at January 28, 2006, the number of stores by state:
            Number of PETCO Stores        as of January 28, 2006          
           
  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS             On
April 18, 2005, we and our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer were named as defendants in a purported class action filed in United States District Court for the Southern District of California alleging violations of
Sections 10 and 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The named plaintiff purports to represent a class of purchasers of our stock during the period November 18, 2004 to April 14, 2005, and alleges that during such period the
defendants misrepresented our financial position and that the plaintiff and the purported class of purchasers during that period were damaged by paying artificially and falsely inflated prices for our stock. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary
damages. Over the next several weeks, three additional purported class actions were filed in the same court alleging essentially the same claims against us and our officers and adding our Chairman as a defendant. These cases were consolidated, and
in October 2005 a consolidated complaint was filed extending the class period from August 18, 2004 to August 25, 2005, adding additional but similar causes of action, and naming additional defendants, including our President and Chief
Operating Officer, several of our Senior Vice Presidents, several former and current members of our Board of Directors, and two former stockholders. In January 2006, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint on the ground
that it failed to state facts sufficient to state a claim under the securities laws. A hearing on the motion is scheduled for May 2006. We have tendered these matters to our insurance carriers.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

   Although there can be no assurance that unfavorable outcomes in the foregoing matters would not have a
material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations, management believes the claims are without merit, strong defenses exist, and management intends to vigorously defend against the actions. We have not recorded any accrual
for contingent liability associated with the legal proceedings described above based on management s belief that a liability, while possible, is not probable. Further, any possible range of loss cannot be estimated at this time.            On April 22, 2005, an alleged owner of our stock, derivatively sued all
of our directors and our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, purportedly on our behalf, alleging that such officers and directors engaged in breaches of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate
assets, unjust enrichment and other violations of California law during the period November 18, 2004 to the present. The complaint, filed in Superior Court of the State of California for the County of San Diego, seeks to recover on our behalf
alleged unspecified damages sustained by us as a result of such alleged actions, treble damages, disgorgement of profits from the sale of our securities and benefits and compensation obtained by the individual defendants, and extraordinary equitable
and/or injunctive relief as permitted by law. Also on April 22, 2005, another shareholder derivative action was filed in Superior Court of the State of California for the County of San Diego on behalf of another alleged owner of our stock
against the same defendants and with substantially similar allegations to those described above. These actions have been consolidated. In August 2005, the defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated complaint on the ground that the stockholders had
failed to make a demand on the Company s Board and failed to adequately allege that a demand was excused. The Court granted the motion but gave plaintiffs leave to amend. The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint which defendants have again
moved to dismiss. A hearing on the defendants  motion is now scheduled for April 2006. We have tendered these matters to our insurance carriers, and do not believe the outcome of these matters will have a material adverse impact on our
consolidated financial position or results of operations in any future period.            On June 27, 2005, we were named as a defendant in a purported class action filed in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles alleging violations of the California Labor Code.
The named plaintiffs, Wayne Boyd, Anthony Castro, Gilbert Hernandez, and Daniel Lepkosky, purport to represent all current and former hourly, non-exempt employees of our California stores from June 27, 2001 to the present. These plaintiffs
allege that during this period they were not paid all wages, were not paid overtime, were not authorized and permitted to take rest breaks as required by law, were not provided meal breaks as required by law, were not paid  reporting time 
pay, and were not paid all wages upon separation from employment. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages in the form of unpaid wages, penalties and other relief. On March 2, 2006, Plaintiff Gilbert Hernandez requested that his claims
against the Company be dismissed. This request is subject to court approval.            On September 19, 2005, another purported class action alleging Labor Code violations was filed in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles naming us as the defendant. The named
plaintiff in the September 19 suit, Natalie Wade, purports to represent a class of current and former PETCO employees who she alleges were not paid all wages earned, were not provided meal breaks, were not authorized and permitted to take rest
breaks, and were not provided with itemized wage statements as required by law. This complaint also seeks unspecified monetary damages and other relief. A first amended complaint was filed on or about November 16, 2005. This amendment neither
added nor altered any of the causes of action asserted but appears to have been made in an effort to cure a failure to comply with certain administrative requirements. In February 2006, Plaintiff Natalie Wade s lawsuit against the Company was
voluntarily dismissed by Ms. Wade in exchange for the Company s agreement not to seek costs incurred in defending against the lawsuit.            Although there can be no assurance that unfavorable outcomes in the foregoing matters would not have a material adverse effect on our financial position
or results of operations, management believes the claims are without merit, strong defenses exist, and management intends to vigorously defend against these actions. We have not recorded any accrual for contingent liability associated with the legal
proceedings described above based on management s belief that a liability, while possible, is not probable. Further, any possible range of loss cannot be estimated at this time.         
   15   

Table of Contents  

   We are involved in other routine litigation arising in the ordinary course of our business. While the
results of such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the final outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.             
  ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS             No matters were submitted to a vote of our stockholders during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

PART II          

ITEM5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES                Market Information             Our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market s National Market under the symbol  PETC.  The
following table shows the high and low per share sales prices on our common stock, as reported on the Nasdaq National Market for the periods indicated:         
          On March 17,
2006, the last reported sale price of our common stock on the Nasdaq National Market was $22.31. As of March 17, 2006, there were approximately 71 holders of record of our common stock.             Dividend Policy             We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in
the operation of our business and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes place limitations on our ability to pay
dividends or make other distributions in respect of our common stock. Any future determination as to the payment of dividends on our common stock will be restricted by these limitations, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will
depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors.             Equity Compensation Plan Information             See Item 12 of this Annual Report for reference to the information required by this item with respect to our equity compensation plans.   
     
   17   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA             The following selected historical consolidated financial data as of and for the fiscal years ended February 2, 2002, February 1, 2003, January 31, 2004, January 29, 2005, and January 28, 2006
presented below under the captions  Statement of Operations Data  and  Balance Sheet Data,  have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements as of those dates and for those periods. The selected historical
consolidated financial data and notes should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and our consolidated financial statements.         
       
   18   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Operating income includes the following unusual charges and expenses for the periods indicated:           

(a)  
  Management fees were paid pursuant to our management services agreement, which we entered into in October 2000 in connection with our leveraged recapitalization. We terminated the
management services agreement shortly after our initial public offering for a fee of $12.5 million.     

(b)  
  Financing and legal expenses related to our initial public offering in February 2002.     

(c)  
  In connection with the increase in fair value related to outstanding stock options as a result of our initial public offering, we recorded non-cash stock-based compensation totaling
$17.4 million in the fiscal year ended February 2, 2002, of which $14.4 million and $3.0 million are recorded in stock-based compensation and other costs and cost of sales and occupancy costs, respectively, and $8.4 million in the fiscal year
ended February 1, 2003, of which $7.0 million and $1.4 million are recorded in stock-based compensation and other costs and cost of sales and occupancy costs, respectively.     

(d)  
  Related to the settlement of California overtime litigation.           

(2)  
  Calculated by dividing cost of sales and occupancy costs for the most recent four quarters, by average fiscal quarter end inventory for the five most recent quarters. Fiscal 2003,
2004, and 2005 reflect the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issues 02-16 and 03-10, which have the effect of decreasing cost of sales and occupancy costs and decreasing inventory turns as compared to fiscal 2001 and 2002, which do
not reflect the adoption of these consensuses.           

(3)  
  A new store becomes a comparable store on the first day of the fiscal month following 12 full fiscal months of operation. Relocated stores become comparable stores on the first day
of operation. Comparable stores also include expanded stores and exclude closed stores as of the first day of the month of closing.           

Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we will report our comparable store net sales under a refined methodology, reflecting the impact of non-point-of-sale (non-POS)
revenue transactions. The refined methodology will reflect vendor s sales incentives recorded as a reduction of sales. Refining the methodology for calculating our comparable store net sales percentage change will not impact reported net sales,
net earnings or cash flows.           

(4)  
  Includes capital leases and other obligations.           
   19   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS                You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations with our consolidated
financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements and involves numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described in Item 1A of
this Annual Report under the heading  Risk Factors.  Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.              Executive Summary             PETCO is a leading specialty retailer of premium pet food, supplies and services. At January 28, 2006, we operated 779 stores in 49 states and the
District of Columbia. Our strategy is to offer our customers a complete assortment of pet-related products and services at fair prices, with superior levels of customer service at convenient locations. Our stores offer a fun, exciting shopping
experience and generally range in size from 12,000 to 15,000 square feet. Since the middle of 2001, all new stores have been opened in our newer formats, which incorporate a more dramatic presentation of our companion animals and emphasize
higher-margin supplies categories. We have remodeled 53 stores to our newer formats since the prior year, and now have a total of 476 stores in our newer formats.            We increased our net sales from $1.3 billion in fiscal 2001 to $2.0 billion in fiscal 2005. We also increased our operating
income from $31.8 million in fiscal 2001, which includes unusual charges and expenses totaling $58.0 million, to $141.5 million in fiscal 2005. The principal contributors to this improvement in our financial performance since 2001 include:
(1) our ability to generate comparable store net sales growth, driven partly by our continuing initiative of remodeling certain stores to our newer store formats; (2) strategic expansion in both existing and new markets;
(3) innovative store formats that offer superior customer service, convenience and a fun and exciting shopping environment; (4) targeted merchandising efforts to drive sales of higher-margin pet accessories, supplies and services, which
have grown to approximately 71% of net sales in fiscal 2005, up from approximately 67% of net sales in fiscal 2001; (5) our expanding store base, which offers economies of scale and purchasing efficiencies; and (6) a broad product offering
of over 10,000 high quality pet-related products, most of which are not found in typical supermarkets or mass merchants.            We plan to increase our aggregate store square footage by 8% to 10% per year on a long-term basis. Our year-over-year increase in square footage in
fiscal 2005 was 11.8%, and our total store square footage at January 28, 2006 was approximately 11.3 million square feet. We plan to open approximately 90 new stores in fiscal 2006, or approximately 75 stores net of relocations and
closings. In fiscal 2006, we intend to remodel approximately 35 of our existing stores into our newer formats, and we plan to remodel additional existing stores in the future. We also plan to relocate certain existing stores and close certain
under-performing stores. As a result of our store expansion strategy, operating results in any future year may reflect lower average store contribution and operating margins due to increased store pre-opening and remodel expenses and lower
anticipated sales volumes of newer stores.            The pet food,
supplies and services business is highly competitive. This competition can be categorized into three different segments: (1) supermarkets, warehouse clubs and mass merchants; (2) specialty pet store chains; and (3) traditional pet
stores and independent service providers. Our strategy is to focus our assortment on specialty products and premium pet foods, which minimizes the potential overlap with supermarkets, warehouse clubs and mass merchants. We believe that we compete
effectively within our various geographic areas. However, some of our competitors are much larger in terms of sales volume and have access to greater capital and management resources than we do.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations             The following table sets forth selected results of our operations expressed as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated. As a result of
operational and strategic changes, period-to-period comparisons of financial results may not be meaningful and the results of our operations for historical periods may not be indicative of our future results.         
           Fiscal Year Ended January 28,
2006 Compared with Fiscal Year Ended January 29, 2005             Net sales increased 10.2% to $2.0 billion for fiscal 2005 from $1.81 billion for fiscal 2004. The increase in net sales resulted primarily from the comparable store net sales increase of 2.7% and the increase in our square footage of 11.8%
in fiscal 2005. We added 89 new stores in fiscal 2005, or 63 stores net of relocations and closings. The increase in comparable store net sales accounted for approximately $52.7 million, or 28.7%, of the net sales increase, while the net increase in
our store base accounted for approximately $131.2 million, or 71.3%, of the net sales increase. The comparable store net sales increase was attributable to an increase in average sales per transaction, price increases in certain product categories
and the contribution of newer stores.            Beginning in the first
quarter of fiscal 2006, we will report our comparable store net sales under a refined methodology, reflecting the impact of non-point-of-sale (non-POS) revenue transactions. The refined methodology will reflect vendor s sales incentives
recorded as a reduction of sales. Refining the methodology for calculating our comparable store net sales percentage change will not impact reported net sales, net earnings or cash flows.            Gross profit, defined as net sales less cost of sales and store occupancy costs, increased 5.6% to $666.0 million for fiscal
2005 from $630.8 million for fiscal 2004. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased to 33.4% from 34.8% in the prior year period. A decrease of 0.3% of net sales was caused by higher distribution costs, primarily related to our penetration
into new markets with high initial entry costs and increased fuel costs. A decrease of 0.6% of net sales was due to increased store occupancy costs as a percentage of net sales as a result of slower growth in sales combined with fixed occupancy
costs and a larger number of store openings in fiscal 2005. The remainder of the decrease of 0.5% of net sales was due primarily to slower sales growth in high-margin product categories in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2005 and higher than
expected markdowns of clearance merchandise in the third quarter of fiscal 2005. These decreases were partially offset by continuing improvements in supplies and services margins.            Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 11.0% to $524.6 million for fiscal 2005 from $472.8 million in the
prior year period. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses  
       
   21   

Table of Contents  

increased to 26.3% from 26.1% in the prior year period. The overall increase of 0.2% of net sales was due primarily to increased advertising and store
payroll expenses as a percentage of net sales, offset by a decrease in general and administrative payroll expenses as a percentage of net sales.            Operating income was $141.5 million in fiscal 2005, or 7.1% of net sales, compared with operating income of $158.0 million in fiscal 2004, or 8.7% of net
sales.            Net interest expense was $15.0 million in fiscal 2005,
compared with net interest expense of $19.3 million in fiscal 2004. The reduction in interest expense was due mainly to the full repayment of the term loan under our prior senior credit facility (which was partially offset by borrowings on our new
senior credit facility) in fiscal 2004, the repurchase of $16.0 million in principal amount of our senior subordinated notes in fiscal 2004, the repurchase of $14.7 million in principal amount of our senior subordinated notes and net repayments of
$25.0 million under our revolving credit facility during fiscal 2005.            In fiscal 2005, we incurred debt retirement costs totaling $2.4 million, consisting primarily of a purchase premium, related to the repurchase of $14.7 million in principal amount of our 10.75% senior subordinated notes. In fiscal 2004, we
incurred debt retirement costs totaling $4.0 million related to the early repayment and subsequent termination of our prior senior facility. We also incurred debt retirement costs of $2.8 million, consisting primarily of a purchase premium related
to the repurchase of $16.0 million in principal amount of our 10.75% senior subordinated notes in fiscal 2004.            Income taxes were $48.9 million in fiscal 2005, compared with income taxes of $49.5 million in fiscal 2004. Income taxes as a percentage of earnings
before income taxes increased to 39.4% in fiscal 2005 from 37.6% in fiscal 2004. The increase from fiscal 2004 is due primarily to the recognition of certain state deferred tax assets and other benefits related to state franchise taxes in fiscal
2004.            Net earnings in fiscal 2005 decreased 8.7% to $75.2
million, or $1.28 per diluted share, compared with net earnings of $82.4 million, or $1.41 per diluted share, in the prior year period.             Fiscal Year Ended January 29, 2005 Compared with Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2004             Net sales increased 12.5% to $1.81 billion for fiscal 2004 from $1.61 billion for fiscal 2003. The increase in net sales
resulted primarily from the comparable store net sales increase of 6.2% and the increase in our store square footage of 12.2% in fiscal 2004. We added 81 new stores in fiscal 2004, or 62 stores net of relocations and closings. The increase in
comparable store net sales accounted for approximately $98.6 million, or 48.9%, of the net sales increase. The net increase in our store base accounted for approximately $103.1 million, or 51.1%, of the net sales increase. The comparable store net
sales increase was attributable to improvements in our product mix to higher-price categories, increased customer traffic and price increases in certain product categories.            Gross profit, defined as net sales less cost of sales and store occupancy costs, increased $81.3 million, or 14.8%, to
$630.8 million for fiscal 2004 from $549.5 million for fiscal 2003. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased to 34.8% for fiscal 2004 from 34.1% in fiscal 2003. An increase of approximately 1.0% of net sales was due to the continuing
change in our sales mix from lower-margin pet food to higher-margin categories, improvements in pet food margins and, to a lesser extent, a reduction of inventory shrinkage costs. Offsetting these increases was a decrease of approximately 0.5% of
net sales caused by higher fuel prices and overall distribution costs, partly related to our penetration into new markets with high initial entry costs, and a decrease of approximately 0.5% of net sales caused by increased store occupancy costs as a
percentage of net sales associated with delays in new store openings and increased store closing costs. In addition, we recorded an adjustment in fiscal 2004 for unrecorded distribution costs related to prior periods in the amount of $2.7 million,
resulting in a decrease in gross profit of approximately 0.1% of net sales. The remainder of the increase, or approximately 0.8% of net sales, is a result of our adoption of EITF No. 02-16 in the first quarter of fiscal 2003. This accounting
change results in the initial deferral of substantially all of our vendor support as a reduction of  
       
   22   

Table of Contents  

inventory, which is realized as a reduction of cost of sales and occupancy costs as the related inventory is sold. In periods prior to the first quarter of
fiscal 2003, we recorded certain vendor support, including cooperative advertising reimbursement, as a reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses when earned. EITF 02-16 applied prospectively to vendor arrangements entered into or
modified subsequent to December 31, 2002. Because we follow a practice of continually negotiating new arrangements with suppliers, the effects of this accounting change were phased in over the course of fiscal 2003. As of the beginning of
fiscal 2004, substantially all of our supplier arrangements are accounted for pursuant to EITF 02-16. This is the last period that we reported an EITF Issue 02-16 effect, as fiscal 2005 is fully comparable with fiscal 2004.            Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $61.0 million, or
14.8%, to $472.8 million for fiscal 2004 from $411.8 million for fiscal 2003. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 26.1% for fiscal 2004 from 25.6% in fiscal 2003. This increase resulted primarily
from the adoption of EITF No. 02-16, which accounted for an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of 0.5% of net sales. In addition, an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of 0.2% of net sales was due to
an increase in store pre-opening expenses, offset by a decrease of 0.2% of net sales related to store and general and administrative operating expenses.            Operating income was $158.0 million in fiscal 2004, or 8.7% of net sales, compared with operating income of $137.7 million in fiscal 2003, or 8.5% of net
sales.            Net interest expense was $19.3 million in fiscal 2004,
compared with net interest expense of $26.1 million in fiscal 2003. The reduction in interest expense was due mainly to the repurchase of $50.0 million in principal amount of our 10.75% senior subordinated notes in January 2004, the early repayment
of $50.0 million on the term loan under our prior senior credit facility in August 2003, and a reduction of interest rates on the term loan under our prior senior credit facility during fiscal 2003 and 2004, including a 0.5% reduction in the
interest rate in connection with an amendment of the prior senior credit facility in August 2003.            In fiscal 2004, we incurred debt retirement costs totaling $4.0 million related to the early repayment and subsequent termination of our prior senior
facility. We also incurred debt retirement costs of $2.8 million, consisting primarily of a purchase premium, related to the repurchase of $16.0 million in principal amount of our 10.75% senior subordinated notes in fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2003, we
incurred debt retirement costs of $10.6 million, consisting primarily of a purchase premium, related to the repurchase of $50.0 million in principal amount of our 10.75% senior subordinated notes in the fourth quarter. We also incurred debt
retirement costs of $1.6 million related to the early repayment of $50.0 million on the term loan under our prior senior credit facility in fiscal 2003.            Income taxes were $49.5 million in fiscal 2004, compared with income taxes of $34.7 million in fiscal 2003. Income taxes as a percentage of earnings
before income taxes increased to 37.6% in fiscal 2004 from 34.9% in fiscal 2003. The increase in fiscal 2004 is due primarily to the favorable resolution of an income tax accrual in fiscal 2003 which resulted in a benefit of $3.4 million, and the
recognition, in fiscal 2003, of additional benefits with respect to certain net operating losses and federal and state credits which had not previously been realized in prior periods. The increase in tax expense for fiscal 2004 was partially offset
by the recognition in fiscal 2004 of certain state deferred tax assets and other benefits related to state franchise taxes in fiscal 2004.            Net earnings in fiscal 2004 increased 27.3% to $82.4 million, or $1.41 per diluted share, compared with net earnings of $64.7 million, or $1.11 per
diluted share, in fiscal 2003.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

    Quarterly Data             The following tables set forth the unaudited quarterly results of operations for fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005. This information includes all adjustments
management considers necessary for fair presentation of such data. The results of operations for historical periods are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. We expect quarterly results of operations to fluctuate depending on
the timing and amount of net sales contributed by new stores.            We believe that our business is moderately seasonal, with net sales and earnings generally higher in the fourth fiscal quarter due to year-end holiday purchases.         

(1)  
  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we incurred debt retirement costs of $6.8 million related to the repurchase of $16.0 million in principal amount of our senior subordinated
notes and the full repayment of $140.8 million on the term loan under our prior senior credit facility and the subsequent termination of the facility. In addition, we recorded an adjustment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 to correct the
accounting for operating lease tenant improvement allowances, resulting in a $1.3 million increase in cost of sales and occupancy costs, which related to annual and quarterly periods prior to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. We also recorded an
adjustment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 to accrue for additional distribution costs related to prior periods, resulting in a $4.4 million increase in cost of sales and occupancy costs.           

(2)  
  In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, we incurred debt retirement costs of $2.4 million related to the repurchase of $14.7 million in principal amount of our senior subordinated
notes.           

(3)  
  Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we will report our comparable store net sales under a refined methodology, reflecting the impact of non-point-of-sale (non-POS)
revenue transactions. The refined methodology will reflect vendor s sales incentives recorded as a reduction of sales. Refining the methodology for calculating our comparable store net sales percentage change will not impact reported net sales,
net earnings or cash flows.           
   24   

Table of Contents  

    Liquidity and Capital Resources             We finance our operations and store expansion program primarily through cash generated from operating activities. Net cash
provided by operating activities was $156.9 million, $172.6 million and $164.0 million for fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Our sales are substantially on a cash basis, and therefore provide a significant source of liquidity. We use net
operating cash principally to purchase inventory, to fund our capital expenditures and to make interest payments on our debt. A portion of the inventory we purchase is financed through vendor credit terms.            We use cash in investing activities primarily to construct leasehold
improvements and purchase fixtures and equipment for new stores, to remodel certain existing stores and, to a lesser extent, to purchase distribution center and office fixtures, equipment and computer hardware and software in support of our
distribution and administrative functions. We estimate that our purchases of fixed assets for fiscal 2006 will be between $110 million and $120 million, which includes the opening of approximately 90 new stores and the estimated cost of remodeling
approximately 35 existing stores to our newer formats. Cash used in investing activities was $98.7 million, $124.4 million and $124.2 million for fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, and consisted primarily of capital expenditures. We opened
63, 81 and 89 new stores during fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively.            Net cash used in financing activities was $105.0 million, $73.6 million and $37.1 million in fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, and consisted primarily of debt repayments net of borrowings. During fiscal 2005,
we reduced our overall level of debt by $40.1 million, primarily through the repurchase of $14.7 million of our senior subordinated notes, and net repayments under our revolving credit facility of $25.0 million. During fiscal 2004, we reduced our
overall level of debt by $72.3 million, primarily through the full repayment of the term loan under our prior senior credit facility and the repurchase of $16.0 million of our senior subordinated notes, which was partially offset by borrowings on
our new senior credit facility.            Borrowings under our $200
million senior secured revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of our personal property assets, and as of January 28, 2006, bore interest at our option, at the agent bank s base rate plus a margin of up to 0.75%, or
LIBOR plus a margin of up to 1.875%, in each case based on our leverage ratio at the time. In addition, we have pledged all of the capital stock of our domestic subsidiaries to secure our obligations under the revolving credit facility. At
January 28, 2006, the revolving credit facility was scheduled to expire on January 31, 2010, although we had the option to extend the expiration of the revolving credit facility for an additional one-year period, subject to the
satisfaction of certain conditions. At January 28, 2006, we also had the option to increase the amount of credit available under the revolving credit facility, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, by an additional $125 million
through April 30, 2007 reduced to an additional $50 million after April 30, 2007. At January 28, 2006, we incurred a fee of up to 2.1% on letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility and a fee of up to 0.3% on the
unused commitment under the revolving credit facility, reduced for any letters of credit. The credit agreement contains certain affirmative and negative covenants related to, among other things, indebtedness, capital expenditures, fixed charges
coverage and total leverage. The revolving credit facility specifies a number of events of default (some of which are subject to applicable cure periods), including, among others, the failure to make payments when due, defaults under other
agreements or instruments of indebtedness and noncompliance with covenants. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders may terminate the facility and declare all amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility to be immediately
due and payable.            At January 28, 2006, we were in
compliance with all of the covenants under our revolving credit facility, and the outstanding balance of our revolving credit facility was $60.0 million. The interest rate at January 28, 2006 on the borrowings under our revolving credit
facility was 5.7%. At January 28, 2006, we had outstanding $30.1 million in letters of credit used for general business purposes, which reduce the availability under our revolving credit facility.            On March 17, 2006, we entered into an amendment of our senior credit
facility (the  amended senior credit facility ). The amendment increases the maximum borrowing under the senior credit facility from $200 million  
       
   25   

Table of Contents  

to $350 million and extends the maturity date from January 31, 2010 to March 31, 2011, although we have the option to extend the expiration of the
revolving credit facility for an additional one-year period, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We also have the option to increase the amount of credit available under the revolving credit facility, subject to the satisfaction of
certain conditions, by an additional $100 million. Borrowings under the amended senior credit facility bear interest at our option, at the agent bank s base rate plus a margin of up to 0.50%, or LIBOR plus a margin of up to 1.625%, in each case
based on our leverage ratio at the time. In addition, under the amended senior credit facility, we will incur a fee of up to 1.8% on letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility and a fee of up to 0.25% on the unused commitment under
the revolving credit facility, which is reduced for any letters of credit.            In fiscal 2005, we repurchased through privately negotiated transactions $14.7 million in aggregate principal amount of our 10.75% senior subordinated notes, leaving $89.3 million in aggregate principal amount of our
senior subordinated notes outstanding at January 28, 2006. The senior subordinated notes mature on November 1, 2011, and interest on the senior subordinated notes accrues at a rate of 10.75% per annum and is payable semi-annually in
arrears. The indenture governing the senior subordinated notes specifies a number of events of default (many of which are subject to applicable cure periods), including, among others, the failure to make payments when due, defaults under other
agreements or instruments of indebtedness and noncompliance with covenants. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the holders of the senior subordinated notes may declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. We may redeem
the senior subordinated notes at our option at any time on or after November 1, 2006, in whole or in part, based upon an agreed upon schedule of redemption prices. The redemption prices begin at 105.375% of the principal amount at November 1,
2006 and decline thereafter through November 1, 2009. We may from time to time pursue additional repurchases of some or all of our senior subordinated notes in open market purchases, negotiated transactions or otherwise. The scope of such
repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Such repurchases may have a material effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.
           In March 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to $100 million of our common stock. The number of shares to be purchased and the timing of purchases will be based on several factors, including the price of our stock, general business and market conditions, and other investment
opportunities. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. As of the close of market on March 27, 2006, the Company had repurchased approximately 830,000 shares under the repurchase program for a total price of
approximately $19.2 million.             Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements              Contractual Obligations             The following summarizes our contractual obligations at January 28,
2006, and the effect such obligations could have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods:         

(1)  
    Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding on us and that specifies all significant
terms including (a) fixed or minimum quantities to be  
          
   26   

Table of Contents  

purchased, (b) fixed, minimum or variable price provisions, and (c) the approximate timing of the transaction. Aggregate purchase obligations in
the above table include noncancelable obligations under our advertising and marketing agreements, noncancelable purchase orders, future interest payments (assuming the existing long-term debt remains outstanding and, for our revolving credit
facility, based on the interest rate in effect at January 28, 2006), commitment and other fees associated with our revolving credit facility, employment contracts, and noncancelable maintenance and service contracts.

(2)  
  No amounts have been included for this category because most of the balance consists of deferred rent and other liabilities related to operating leases, and future operating lease
obligations have been included in a different category. The remaining future obligations related to other long-term liabilities are not material, and we are not currently able to estimate the timing of such obligations.               Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements             At January 28, 2006, we had outstanding $30.1 million in letters of
credit used for general business purposes, which reduce the availability under our revolving credit facility.            At January 29, 2005 and January 28, 2006, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as
entities often referred to as structured finance, variable interest or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. In
addition, we do not engage in trading activities involving non-exchange traded contracts. As such, we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships.   
         Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates             The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates and judgments, including those related to inventories, asset impairment, accruals for self-insured workers  compensation and general liability costs, allowance for doubtful accounts
and accounting for income taxes. We state these accounting policies in the notes to our consolidated financial statements and at relevant sections in this discussion and analysis. These estimates are based on information that is currently available
and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could vary from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions.            We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the
preparation of our consolidated financial statements.            We
maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability to collect receivables, most of which are due from vendors. We determine the adequacy of this allowance by continually evaluating individual receivables,
the vendor s financial condition, and current economic conditions. If the financial conditions of our vendors were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Our actual receivable
write-offs have not varied significantly from our estimates.            We assess our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory and write down the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon historical write-downs and assumptions about future sales and
supply on-hand. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required. We also record an accrual for estimated losses related to inventory shrink between physical
inventories. This accrual is based on actual historical shrink results and current trends in the business. Changes in actual shrink results from completed  
       
   27   

Table of Contents  

physical inventories could result in revisions to our previously estimated shrink accruals. We believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to
record reasonable estimates for both inventory valuation and inventory shrink.            We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, primarily fixed assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important which could
trigger an impairment review include the following:         

significant underperformance of a store relative to expected historical or projected future operating results;           

significant changes in the manner of our use of assets or the strategy for our overall business;           

significant negative industry or economic trends; or           

planned store closings.              When we determine that the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of
impairment, we recognize an impairment loss when the undiscounted estimated future net cash flows expected to be generated by an asset (or group of assets) is less than its carrying value. We measure impairment losses as the amount by which the
asset s carrying value exceeds its fair value. To the extent actual future cash flows are less than anticipated, additional impairment charges may result. We also review the estimated useful lives of the assets and reduce such lives if
necessary. Impairment losses on fixed assets were $0.7 million, $1.7 million and $1.4 million during fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. These write-downs related to fixed assets of closed and underperforming stores.            We have recorded significant amounts of goodwill resulting from the
acquisitions we have completed. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ( SFAS ) No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , goodwill is not amortized. We perform our annual impairment test during the
second quarter of each year, and perform additional impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable at the store level. We record impairment charges for any store with
allocated goodwill in excess of its fair value, which is calculated based on the present value of the estimated future net cash flows expected to be generated by the store. To the extent actual cash flows for certain stores are less than
anticipated, additional impairment charges may result. Impairment charges on goodwill were not significant in fiscal 2003, 2004 or 2005.            We maintain accruals for self-insured workers  compensation and general liability costs. We determine these accruals, with the assistance of
insurance actuaries, based on historical experience and trends related to claims and payments, information provided to us by our insurance broker, and industry experience and trends. Accruals for estimates of future claim costs for workers 
compensation and general liability are recorded on an undiscounted basis. All estimates of ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense, and resulting reserves, are subject to inherent variability caused by the nature of the insurance process. The
potentially long period of time between the occurrence of an incident and the final resolution of a claim and the possible effects of changes in the legal, social and economic environments contribute to this variability. Actual results should be
expected to vary from estimated results and such variation could be substantial.            We estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This involves estimating our actual current taxes and assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax
and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. We also assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income,
and to the extent we believe that recovery is not more likely than not, we establish a valuation allowance. The valuation allowance is based on our estimates of taxable income in the jurisdictions in which we operate and the period over which our
deferred tax assets will be recoverable. Management considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in  
       
   28   

Table of Contents  

making this assessment. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities
and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets, and changes in estimates of current taxes and valuation allowances could be significant.             New Accounting Standards             In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS
No. 123(R) ). SFAS No. 123(R) supersedes APB No. 25 and SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  (SFAS No. 123), and requires companies to expense the fair value of employee stock options and other
forms of employee stock-based compensation. SFAS No. 123 allowed companies to disclose the pro forma effects of expensing the fair value of employee stock-based compensation in the footnotes to the financial statements. SFAS No. 123(R)
applies to all stock-based compensation transactions with employees in which a company acquires services by issuing its stock or other equity instruments, except through arrangements resulting from employee stock-ownership plans, or by incurring
liabilities that are based on the company s stock price. In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) released SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107,  Share-Based Payment  ( SAB No. 107 ). SAB
No. 107 provides the SEC staff s position regarding the application of SFAS No 123(R) and certain SEC rules and regulations, and also provides the staff s views regarding the valuation of share-based payment arrangements for public
companies. In April 2005, the SEC approved an amendment to Rule 4-01(a) of Regulation S-X to amend the date for compliance with SFAS No. 123(R). In accordance with this amendment, the accounting provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) are effective
for annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 using the modified-prospective approach. We are evaluating the effects of adopting SFAS No. 123(R) and SAB No. 107
and currently anticipate stock-based compensation expense, net of tax, of approximately $9 million (unaudited) in fiscal 2006. Actual fiscal 2006 stock-based compensation expense could vary significantly from this estimate.            In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  ( FIN 47 ), which is an interpretation of SFAS No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations  ( SFAS No. 143 ). FIN 47 clarifies terminology within SFAS
No. 143 and requires an entity to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred if the liability s fair value can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 is effective for fiscal years ending
after December 15, 2005. We adopted FIN 47 for the year ended January 28, 2006, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operation, financial condition or cash flows.             Inflation             Although we cannot accurately anticipate the effect of inflation on our operations, we do not believe that inflation has
had, or is likely in the foreseeable future to have, a material impact on our net sales or results of operations.         

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK               Market risks relating to our operations result primarily from changes in short-term London Interbank Offered Rates, or LIBOR, as our revolving credit
facility utilizes a portfolio of short-term LIBOR contracts. These LIBOR contracts are fixed rate instruments for a period of between one and six months, at our discretion. Our portfolio of LIBOR contracts vary in length and interest rate, such that
adverse changes in short-term interest rates could affect our overall borrowing rate when contracts are renewed. We periodically evaluate alternative hedging strategies, although currently we have no hedges outstanding. We do not enter into
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.            All of the $60.0 million in debt under our revolving credit facility as of January 28, 2006 was subject to variable interest rate fluctuations. Based on this debt level, a hypothetical 10% increase in variable rates from the  
       
   29   

Table of Contents  

applicable rates at January 28, 2006 would increase net interest expense by approximately $0.3 million on an annual basis, and would decrease both net
earnings and cash flows for that annual period by a corresponding amount. We cannot predict market fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on debt, nor can there be any assurance that long-term fixed-rate debt will be available at favorable
rates, if at all. Consequently, future results may differ materially from estimated results due to adverse changes in interest rates or debt availability.            We did not have any significant foreign exchange or other market risk at January 28, 2006.             
  ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA             The Consolidated Financial Statements required by this Item are set forth at the pages indicated in Item 15(a) of this Annual Report.         

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE               None.         

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES                1. Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures             We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the
reports we file pursuant to the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and that such information is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures,
management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and in reaching a reasonable level of assurance, management
necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.            We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report. Based on the foregoing, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.             2. Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting             Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Internal control over financial reporting refers to the process designed by, or under the supervision of, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and effected by our board of
directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, and includes those policies and procedures that:         

(1)  
  pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets;           

(2)  
  provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with the authorization of our management and directors; and           
   30   

Table of Contents  

(3)  
  provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.              Management used the
criteria included in the framework set forth in the report entitled  Internal Control Integrated Framework  published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, known as COSO, to evaluate the effectiveness of
the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2006.            Based on management s assessment and on the criteria in  Internal Control Integrated Framework , management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
January 28, 2006.            Our independent registered public
accounting firm, KPMG, LLP, has issued an audit report on management s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. That report appears below.             3. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting             There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.             4. Inherent Limitation on the Effectiveness of Internal Control             Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting
objectives and may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become ineffective because of changes in conditions or that the degree of
compliance with established policies or procedures may deteriorate.             5.
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Report             REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            The Board of Directors and Stockholders      PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc.:            We have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying
Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting (Item 9A.2) ,  that PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of
January 28, 2006, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) .  The Company s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on
the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.            We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

   A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.            Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.            In our opinion, management s assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria
established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2006, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).            We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and subsidiaries as of January 28, 2006 and January 29, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders  equity (deficit), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended January 28, 2006, and our report dated March 27, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
           /s/ KPMG LLP            San Diego, California      March 27, 2006         

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION               None.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

PART III          

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT               The information required by Item 10 is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement relating to the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A and in accordance with General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K.         

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION               The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement relating to the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A and in accordance with General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K.         

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT               The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement relating to the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A and in accordance with General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K.         

ITEM 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS               The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement relating to the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A and in accordance with General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K.         

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES               The information required by Item 14 is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement relating to the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A and in accordance with General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

PART IV          

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES                (a) Documents filed as a part of this report:             1. Financial statements            The Consolidated Financial Statements required by this Item are submitted in a separate section beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
           2. Financial Statement Schedules            None.            3. Exhibits         
   34   

Table of Contents  

    Exhibit Index          

Exhibit       Number     
      
     Description      
 
  2.1  
      
  Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of January 13, 2005, by and among the PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. (formerly PETCO Animal Supplies,
Inc.) and PETCO Merger Co. (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005 (with respect to the holding company reorganization of PETCO)).   

3.1  
      
  Certificate of Incorporation of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. as filed with the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on January 10, 2005, as amended by the Certificate
of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation as filed with the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on January 13, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005 (with respect
to the holding company reorganization of PETCO)).   

3.2  
      
  Bylaws of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005 (with respect to the holding company reorganization of
PETCO)).   

4.1  
      
  Indenture, dated as of October 26, 2001, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc., certain subsidiaries of PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and U.S. Bank N.A., as trustee
(incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

4.2  
      
  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 14, 2005, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., E-Pet Services, E-Pet Services, LLC and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee
(incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005 (with respect to the holding company reorganization of PETCO)).   

4.3  
      
  Form of Specimen Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2002, as amended).   

4.4  
      
  Form of Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, dated as of February 19, 2002, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and certain stockholders of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc.
(incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.1#  
      
  Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of October 2, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and Brian K. Devine (incorporated by reference to Registration
Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.2#  
      
  First Amendment, dated June 27, 2005, to Employment Agreement, dated as of October 2, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and Brian K. Devine (incorporated by reference
to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005).   

10.3#  
      
  Employment Agreement, dated as of October 2, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and Bruce C. Hall (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1,
as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.4#  
      
  First Amendment, dated June 27, 2005, to Employment Agreement, dated as of October 2, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and Bruce C. Hall (incorporated by reference
to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005).   

10.5#  
      
  Employment Agreement, dated as of October 2, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and James M. Myers (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1,
as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.6#  
      
  First Amendment, dated June 27, 2005, to Employment Agreement, dated as of October 2, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and James M. Myers (incorporated by reference
to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005).   
       
   35   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit       Number     
      
     Description      

10.7#  
      
  Form of Indemnification Agreement between PETCO and certain officers and directors (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No.
333-75830)).   

10.8#  
      
  Form of Retention Agreement for executive officers (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.9#  
      
  Form of Retention Agreement for non-executive officers (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.10#  
      
  Form of Second Amendment to Retention Agreement for executive and non-executive officers (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29,
2005).   

10.11#  
      
  PETCO Animal Supplies 401(k) plan (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-100397)).   

10.12#  
      
  PETCO Flexible Benefit Plan, amended and restated effective July 1, 1998 (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No.
333-75830)).   

10.13#  
      
  The 1994 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan for Executive and Key Employees of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., as amended and restated as of October 2, 2000 (incorporated by reference
to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.14#  
      
  Form of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. Non-qualified Stock Option Agreement (1994 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan for Executive and Key Employees) (incorporated by reference to
Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.15#  
      
  Form of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. Incentive Stock Option Agreement (1994 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan for Executive and Key Employees) (incorporated by reference to Registration
Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.16  
      
  Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 17, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and BD Recapitalization Corp. (incorporated by reference to Registration
Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.17  
      
  First Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 14, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and BD Recapitalization Corp. (incorporated by
reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.18 #  
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for units granted pursuant to the 2002 Incentive Award Plan of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc.   

10.19#  
      
  PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.20#  
      
  First Amendment to PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29,
2005).   

10.21#  
      
  2002 Incentive Award Plan of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.22 #  
      
  Form of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. Stock Option Agreement (2002 Incentive Award Plan).   

10.23#  
      
  Consulting Agreement, dated as of November 29, 2001, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and Brian K. Devine (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended February 2, 2002, as amended).   
       
   36   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit       Number     
      
     Description      

10.24#  
      
  First Amendment, dated June 27, 2005, to Consulting Agreement, dated as of November 29, 2001, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and Brian K. Devine (incorporated by
reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005).   

10.25#  
      
  Supplemental Executive Retirement Program, dated as of November 29, 2001, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and Brian K. Devine (incorporated by reference to Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2002, as amended).   

10.26#  
      
  PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. Amended and Restated Executive Incentive Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29,
2005).   

10.27  
      
  Credit Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc., the financial institutions party thereto as lenders, Wells
Fargo Bank, National Association, as sole lead arranger, book runner and administrative agent for the lenders, Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agent, and U.S. Bank National Association and Union Bank of California, N.A., as co-documentation
agents (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005 (with respect to the execution of the Credit Agreement)).   

10.28  
      
  Form of Revolving Note executed in connection with the Credit Agreement referenced as Exhibit 10.27 (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005
(with respect to the execution of the Credit Agreement)).   

10.29  
      
  First Amendment, dated as of March 10, 2005, to Credit Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc., the
financial institutions party thereto as lenders, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent for the lenders (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29,
2005).   

10.30  
      
  Second Amendment, dated as of April 29, 2005, to Credit Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc., the
financial institutions party thereto as lenders, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent for the lenders (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 29, 2005).   

10.31  
      
  Third Amendment, dated as of May 31, 2005, to Credit Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc., the
financial institutions party thereto as lenders, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent for the lenders (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 3, 2005).   

10.32  
      
  Fourth Amendment, dated as of March 17, 2006, to Credit Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, as amended, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., PETCO Animal Supplies Stores,
Inc., the financial institutions party thereto as  Lenders  and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent for the Lenders (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 23,
2006).   

10.33  
      
  Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005 (with respect to the holding company reorganization of PETCO)).   

10.34 #  
      
  Form of Waiver and Amendment of Retention Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, for executive and non-executive officers, and Form of Waiver and Amendment to Employment Agreement,
dated as of January 13, 2005, for certain executive officers.   
       
   37   

Table of Contents  

Filed herewith.           

#  
  Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.           

*  
  These certifications are being furnished solely to accompany this annual report pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, and are not being filed for purposes of Section 18 of
the Exchange Act and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.           
   38   

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES             Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.          

PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.    

By:   
     
    /s/ JAMES M. MYERS     

James M. Myers        Chief Executive Officer     

By:   
     
    /s/ RODNEY CARTER     

Rodney Carter        Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     
 
         Date: March 31, 2006            Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.         

Signature     
      
     Title     
     
     Date      

/ S / BRIAN K. DEVINE      Brian K. Devine   
      
    Chairman of the Board   
     
  March 31, 2006   

/ S / JAMES M. MYERS      James M. Myers   
      
    Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)   
     
  March 31, 2006   

/ S / RODNEY CARTER      Rodney Carter   
      
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)   
     
  March 31, 2006   

/ S / DAVID B. APPEL      David. B. Appel   
      
    Director   
     
  March 31, 2006   

/ S / PETER MASLEN      Peter Maslen   
      
    Director   
     
  March 31, 2006   

/ S / JOHN G. DANHAKL      John G. Danhakl   
      
    Director   
     
  March 31, 2006   

/ S / JULIAN C. DAY      Julian C. Day   
      
    Director   
     
  March 31, 2006   
       
   39   

Table of Contents  

40   

Table of Contents  

PE
  TCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.              Index to Financial Statements          
       
   F-1   

Table of Contents  

PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            The Board of Directors and Stockholders      PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc.:            We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of PETCO Animal
Supplies, Inc. and subsidiaries as of January 28, 2006 and January 29, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity (deficit), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
January 28, 2006. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.            We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.            In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and subsidiaries as of January 28, 2006 and
January 29, 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended January 28, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.            We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2006, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 27, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management s assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over
financial reporting.            /s/ KPMG LLP   
        San Diego, California      March 27, 2006         
   F-2   

Table of Contents  

PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.              CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS              (In thousands,
except per share data)          
          See accompanying notes
to consolidated financial statements.         
   F-3   

Table of Contents  

PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS              (In
thousands, except per share data)          
          See accompanying notes
to consolidated financial statements.         
   F-4   

Table of Contents  

PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY (DEFICIT)              For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2004, January 29, 2005 and January 28, 2006              (In thousands)          
          See accompanying notes
to consolidated financial statements.         
   F-5   

Table of Contents  

PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS              (In
thousands)          
          See accompanying notes
to consolidated financial statements.         
   F-6   

Table of Contents  

PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS              For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2004, January 29, 2005 and January 28, 2006              (In thousands, except per share data)              1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies              (a) Description of Business:             PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries (collectively, the  Company  or  PETCO ), is a national
specialty retailer of premium pet food, supplies and services with 779 stores in 49 states and the District of Columbia as of January 28, 2006. The Company s pet-related products include food, supplies, grooming products, toys, novelty
items, vitamins, small pets such as fish, birds and other small animals (excluding cats and dogs), and veterinary supplies.             (b) Basis of Presentation:             The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.            The preparation of these financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. These estimates are based on information that is
currently available and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could vary from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions.            Certain amounts reported in prior fiscal periods have been reclassified to
conform with the current period presentation.             (c) Fiscal Year:
            The Company s fiscal year ends on the Saturday
closest to January 31, resulting in years of either 52 or 53 weeks. All references to a fiscal year refer to the fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to January 31 of the following year. For example, references to fiscal 2005 refer
to the fiscal year beginning on January 30, 2005 and ending on January 28, 2006.             (d) Cash Equivalents:             Cash equivalents represent all liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and include money market funds.             (e) Vendor Rebates and Allowances:             Most of the Company s receivables are due from vendors. Receivables are stated net of an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses
resulting from the inability to collect these receivables, which is determined by continually evaluating individual receivables, the vendor s financial condition and current economic conditions. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $1,747
and $1,728 at January 29, 2005 and January 28, 2006, respectively.            Pursuant to Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) 02-16,  Accounting by a Customer (including a Reseller) for Cash Consideration Received from a Vendor,  substantially all vendor support is initially
deferred as a  
       
   F-7   

Table of Contents  

reduction of the cost of inventory purchased and recognized as a reduction of cost of sales and occupancy costs as the related inventory is sold. Certain
cooperative advertising reimbursements that represent a reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable advertising costs incurred by the Company in selling the vendors  products are classified as a reduction of advertising expenses
within selling, general and administrative expenses.            In
accordance with EITF 03-10,  Application of EITF Issue No. 02-16,  Accounting by a Customer (including a Reseller) for Cash Consideration Received from a Vendor,  by Resellers to Sales Incentives Offered to Consumers by
Manufacturers , consideration received in the form of a reimbursement by a vendor for honoring a vendor s sales incentives offered directly to consumers is accounted for as a reduction of cost of sales unless certain criteria are met.
            (f) Merchandise Inventories:             Merchandise inventories represent finished goods and are stated at the lower
of cost or market. Cost is determined by the average cost method. Physical inventories are taken on a regular basis to ensure that inventories reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets are properly stated. During the periods between
physical inventory counts, the Company accrues for estimated losses related to shrink based on historical shrink results and current trends in the business. Shrink may occur due to theft, loss or the deterioration of goods, among other things. The
Company assesses its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory and writes down the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon historical write-downs and assumptions about future sales and
supply on-hand.             (g) Fixed Assets and Depreciation and Amortization:
            Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Equipment under capital leases is recorded as the present value of minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred.            Buildings, equipment, furniture and fixtures are depreciated using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset. Leasehold and building improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the term of the lease or the estimated useful life of the improvement, whichever is shorter.
Amortization of fixed assets financed through capital leases is included in depreciation expense. The Company s fixed assets are depreciated or amortized using the following estimated useful lives:         

Buildings   
      
  30 years   
 
    Equipment   
      
  3 to 7 years   
 
    Furniture and fixtures   
      
  4 to 7 years   
 
    Leasehold and building improvements   
      
  5 to 10 years   
           (h) Goodwill, Other Intangible
Assets and Long-Lived Assets:             Goodwill represents the
excess of the cost of acquired businesses over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , goodwill is not amortized .  The Company performs its annual impairment test during the second quarter of each year, and performs additional impairment tests whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable at the store level. Impairment charges are recorded for any store with allocated goodwill in excess of its fair value. Fair value is calculated based on the present
value of estimated future net cash flows expected to be generated by the store. Impairment charges were not significant in fiscal 2003, 2004 or 2005.            Non-compete agreements and acquired lease rights, which comprise substantially all of the Company s other intangible assets, have defined lives and
are included in other current and other long-term assets in the  
       
   F-8   

Table of Contents  

accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Non-compete agreements had a gross carrying value of $3,337 and $3,087 and accumulated amortization of $1,141 and
$1,469 at January 29, 2005 and January 28, 2006, respectively. Non-compete agreements are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of two and five years. Acquired lease rights had a gross carrying value of
$4,947 and accumulated amortization of $96 and $549 at January 29, 2005 and January 28, 2006, respectively. Acquired lease rights are amortized using the straight-line method over the term of the leases, which range from 8 to 12 years.
           The Company assesses its other long-lived assets, primarily
fixed assets, for impairment under SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets , whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is
recognized when the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by an asset (or group of assets) are less than its carrying value. Any required impairment losses are measured as the amount by which the asset s carrying value exceeds
its fair value, and are recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the related asset and charged to results of operations. Impairment assessments of long-lived assets resulted in write-downs of fixed assets of $736, $1,715 and $1,363 during
fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. These write-downs relate to fixed assets of closed and underperforming stores and are recorded in cost of sales and occupancy costs in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.             (i) Self-Insurance Accruals:             The Company maintains accruals for self-insured workers  compensation
costs, which is classified in accrued salaries and employee benefits in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, and self-insured general liability costs, which is classified in accrued expenses and other liabilities in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines these accruals, with the assistance of insurance actuaries, based on historical experience and trends related to claims and payments, information provided by the Company s insurance broker,
and industry experience and trends. Accruals for estimates of future claim costs for workers  compensation and general liability are recorded on an undiscounted basis. All estimates of ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense, and resulting
reserves, are subject to inherent variability caused by the nature of the insurance process. The potentially long period of time between the occurrence of an incident and the final resolution of a claim and the possible effects of changes in the
legal, social and economic environments contribute to this variability.             (j)
Fair Value of Financial Instruments:             Because of their
short maturities, the carrying amounts for cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and accrued salaries and employee benefits approximate fair value. The estimated fair value of the senior
subordinated notes was approximately $96.6 million at January 28, 2006, based upon recent bids in the market place. The carrying amounts for the senior credit facility and other debt obligations approximate fair value, as the interest rates and
terms are substantially similar to those that could be obtained currently for similar instruments.             (k) Revenue Recognition:             Revenue from sales of the Company s products is recognized at the point of sale for retail stores. For merchandise shipped to customers, revenue, including outbound shipping charges, is recognized and title and risk of loss pass at the
time of shipment. Revenue from pet grooming, training and other services is recognized when services are performed. Revenue is recorded net of certain discounts and promotions offered to customers, including those offered under the Company s
customer loyalty program. The Company records an allowance for estimated returns in the period of sale.              ( l) Cost of Sales and Occupancy Costs:             Cost of sales and occupancy costs includes the following types of expenses: direct costs associated with products sold, including inbound freight charges; shipping and handling costs; inventory shrink costs; payroll

F-9   

Table of Contents  

costs of pet groomers and trainers and other direct costs of the services line of business; store occupancy and utilities costs; purchasing costs;
warehousing and receiving costs; internal transfer costs; and other costs of the Company s distribution network. Also included in cost of sales and occupancy costs is certain consideration received from vendors for vendor rebates, allowances
and discounts.             (m) Store Closing Costs:             In accordance with SFAS No. 146,  Accounting for Costs Associated with
Exit or Disposal Activities , all costs associated with exit or disposal activities are recognized when they are incurred or when the Company ceases using a property. Store closing costs consist of lease obligations, property taxes and common
area maintenance costs, net of expected sub-lease income. Store closing costs are calculated using the net present value method, at a risk-free interest rate, over the remaining life of the lease, and are recorded in cost of sales and occupancy
costs in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. For fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, store closing costs charged to operations were a net credit of $322, and net charges of $3,914, and $3,624, respectively. Total accrued store closing
costs were $3,043 and $3,040 as of January 29, 2005 and January 28, 2006, respectively, and are included in accrued expenses and other liabilities (short-term portion) and deferred rent and other liabilities (long-term portion).
            (n) Selling, General and Administrative Expenses:             Selling, general and administrative expenses includes the following types of
expenses: payroll costs of store employees and management; other costs associated with store operations; store pre-opening and remodeling costs; advertising expenses; and general and administrative costs, including payroll and other costs associated
with the Company s management and other support functions.             (o)
Advertising Expenses:             The Company charges advertising
costs to expense as incurred and classifies advertising costs within selling, general and administrative expenses. Total advertising expenses were $41,665, $55,952 and $68,127 for fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005 respectively.             (p) Operating Leases:             Rent expense under operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the leases, which generally
range from ten to 15 years for store and distribution center sites and five years for equipment. Costs incurred in negotiating and signing an operating lease agreement are capitalized and recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the
lease. Reimbursements from lessors of tenant improvement costs are recorded as deferred rent and amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.         
   (q) Income Taxes:             Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using
enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in operations
in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are recorded against net deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset may not be recoverable.         
   F-10   

Table of Contents  

    (r) Stock-Based Compensation:             The Company accounts for its stock option plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board
( APB ), Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , and related interpretations, and recognizes compensation expense if the market price of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price on the date of grant.
Stock-based compensation costs are amortized to expense over the vesting period of the option. Had compensation costs for the Company s stock option plans been determined based on the fair value of the awards at the grant date, consistent with
the methodology prescribed under SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , the Company s net earnings and net earnings per share would have been as presented below:         
          The estimated
weighted-average fair value per share of the options granted during fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005 was estimated to be $7.41, $12.95 and $12.02, respectively. The weighted-average fair value per share was calculated at the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:         
          See Note 1(r)
describing the Company s adoption of SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No.123(R) ), in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.             (s) Pre-opening Costs:             Costs incurred in connection with opening new stores are expensed as incurred and are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. Such costs
include advertising, payroll, initial store supplies and utilities.             (t)
Debt Retirement Costs:             Debt retirement costs consist of
prepayment premiums, the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs, and legal and closing costs associated with the extinguishment of debt and are classified in recurring operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
            (u) Segment Reporting:             SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information , requires annual and interim reporting for an enterprise s operating segments and related disclosures about its products, services,  
       
   F-11   

Table of Contents  

geographic areas and major customers. An operating segment is defined as a component of an enterprise that engages in business activities from which it may
earn revenues and incur expenses, and about which separate financial information is regularly evaluated by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources. All of the Company s stores are considered operating segments
and have been aggregated into one reportable segment given the similarities in economic characteristics among the operations represented by the stores and the common nature of the products, customers and methods of distribution.             (v) Future Accounting Requirements:             In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB )
issued SFAS No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) supersedes APB No. 25 and SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS No. 123 ), and requires companies to expense the fair value of employee stock
options and other forms of employee stock-based compensation. SFAS No. 123 allowed companies to disclose the pro forma effects of expensing the fair value of employee stock-based compensation in the footnotes to the financial statements. SFAS
No. 123(R) applies to all stock-based compensation transactions with employees in which a company acquires services by issuing its stock or other equity instruments, except through arrangements resulting from employee stock ownership plans, or
by incurring liabilities that are based on the company s stock price. In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) released SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107,  Share-Based Payment  ( SAB
No. 107 ). SAB No. 107 provides the SEC staff s position regarding the application of SFAS No. 123(R) and certain SEC rules and regulations, and also provides the staff s views regarding the valuation of share-based
payment arrangements for public companies. In April 2005, the SEC approved an amendment to Rule 4-01(a) of Regulation S-X to amend the date for compliance with SFAS No. 123(R). In accordance with this amendment, the accounting provisions of
SFAS No. 123(R) are effective for annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 using the modified-prospective approach. The Company is evaluating the effects of
adopting SFAS No. 123(R) and SAB No. 107 and currently anticipates stock-based compensation expense, net of tax, of approximately $9 million (unaudited) in fiscal 2006. Actual fiscal 2006 stock-based compensation expense could vary
significantly from this estimate.            In March 2005, the FASB
issued Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  ( FIN 47 ), which is an interpretation of SFAS No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations  ( SFAS
No. 143 ). FIN 47 clarifies terminology within SFAS No. 143 and requires an entity to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred if the liability s fair value can be
reasonably estimated. FIN 47 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. The Company adopted FIN 47 for the year ended January 28, 2006, which did not have a material impact on its consolidated results of operation,
financial condition or cash flows.             2. Net Earnings per Share:
            Basic net earnings per share is computed using the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net earnings per share includes the incremental shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of potentially issuable common stock.            Net earnings and the weighted average number of common shares used to compute
basic and diluted net earnings per share are presented below:         
       
   F-12   

Table of Contents  

   Options to purchase common shares that were outstanding but were not included in the computation of
diluted net earnings per share because of their anti-dilutive impact were 7; 1,214 and 2,298 for fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively.             3. Composition of Balance Sheet Accounts              Fixed assets, net             Fixed assets, net, consisted of the following at the balance sheet dates:         
          The Company has $1,101
in fixed assets financed through capital leases at January 29, 2005 and January 28, 2006. Accumulated amortization related to these financed assets was $821 and $1,101 at January 29, 2005 and January 28, 2006, respectively.
            Accrued salaries and employee benefits             Accrued salaries and employee benefits consisted of the following at the
balance sheet dates:         
           Accrued expenses and other
liabilities             Accrued expenses and other liabilities
consisted of the following at the balance sheet dates:         
           4. Senior Credit Facility
            On January 13, 2005, the Company entered into a new
senior credit facility consisting of a $200 million secured revolving credit facility (the  revolving credit facility ). At January 28, 2006, the revolving credit facility  
       
   F-13   

Table of Contents  

was scheduled to expire on January 31, 2010, although the Company had the option to extend the expiration for an additional one-year period, subject to
the satisfaction of certain conditions. At January 28, 2006, the Company also had the option to increase the amount of available credit under the revolving credit facility, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, by an additional
$125 million through April 30, 2007, reduced to an additional $50 million after April 30, 2007.            Borrowings under the revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of the personal property assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and,
as of January 28, 2006, bore interest at the Company s option, at the agent bank s base rate plus a margin of up to 0.75%, or LIBOR plus a margin of up to 1.875%, in each case based on the Company s leverage ratio at the time. In
addition, the Company has pledged all of the capital stock of its domestic subsidiaries to secure the Company s obligations under the revolving credit facility. At January 28, 2006, the Company incurred a fee of up to 2.1% on letters of
credit issued under the revolving credit facility and a fee of up to 0.3% on the unused commitment under the revolving credit facility, reduced for any letters of credit. The credit agreement contains certain affirmative and negative covenants
related to, among other things, indebtedness, capital expenditures, fixed charges coverage and total leverage. The revolving credit facility specifies a number of events of default (some of which are subject to applicable cure periods), including,
among others, the failure to make payments when due, defaults under other agreements or instruments of indebtedness and noncompliance with covenants. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders may terminate the facility and declare all
amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility to be immediately due and payable.            Also on January 13, 2005, the Company s prior senior credit facility was terminated as a result of the payment in full of all amounts due and payable under the prior senior credit facility. In connection
with this termination and early repayments made during fiscal 2004 prior to this termination, the Company recorded debt retirement costs of $4.0 million related to the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs.            During fiscal 2003, the Company made an early repayment of $50.0 million on
the prior senior credit facility and recorded debt retirement costs of $1.6 million related to the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs.            At January 28, 2006, the Company was in compliance with all of the covenants under the revolving credit facility, and the outstanding balance of the
revolving credit facility was $60.0 million. The interest rate at January 28, 2006 on the borrowings under the revolving credit facility was 5.7%. At January 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding $30.1 million in letters of credit used for
general business purposes, which reduced the availability under the revolving credit facility to $109.9 million at January 28, 2006.            On March 17, 2006, the Company entered into an amendment of its senior credit facility (the  amended senior credit facility ). The
amendment increases the maximum borrowing under the senior credit facility from $200 million to $350 million and extends the maturity date from January 31, 2010 to March 31, 2011, although the Company has the option to extend the
expiration of the revolving credit facility for an additional one-year period, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. The Company also has the option to increase the amount of credit available under the revolving credit facility, subject
to the satisfaction of certain conditions, by an additional $100 million. Borrowings under the amended senior credit facility bear interest at the Company s option, at the agent bank s base rate plus a margin of up to 0.50%, or LIBOR plus
a margin of up to 1.625%, in each case based on the Company s leverage ratio at the time. In addition, under the amended senior credit facility, the Company will incur a fee of up to 1.8% on letters of credit issued under the revolving credit
facility and a fee of up to 0.25% on the unused commitment under the revolving credit facility, which is reduced for any letters of credit.             5. Senior Subordinated Notes             The senior subordinated notes mature on November 1, 2011, and interest accrues at a rate of 10.75% per annum and is payable semi-annually in
arrears. The Company may redeem the senior subordinated notes at its option at any time on or after November 1, 2006, in whole or in part, based upon an agreed upon schedule of  
       
   F-14   

Table of Contents  

redemption prices. The redemption prices begin at 105.375% of the principal amount at November 1, 2006 and decline thereafter through November 1, 2009. The
indenture governing the senior subordinated notes specifies a number of events of default (many of which are subject to applicable cure periods), including, among others, the failure to make payments when due, defaults under other agreements or
instruments of indebtedness and noncompliance with covenants. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the holders of the senior subordinated notes may declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable.            The Company repurchased $50.0 million, $16.0 million and $14.7 million in
principal amount of its senior subordinated notes and recorded debt retirement costs totaling $10.6 million, $2.8 million and $2.4 million consisting primarily of a purchase premium in fiscal 2003, fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005, respectively. As of
January 28, 2006, there was $89.3 million in aggregate principal amount of the senior subordinated notes outstanding.             6. Lease Commitments and Other Obligations             The Company leases distribution center and store facilities and equipment under operating leases. These operating leases generally have terms from five to
15 years. Certain store leases include additional contingent rental payments of a percentage of store revenues above defined levels. Rent expense under operating leases for fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005 was $145,129, $165,653 and $185,761,
respectively, excluding sublease income. Sublease income for fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005 was $877, $1,140 and $1,248, respectively.            At January 28, 2006, future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were as follows:         
           7. Stockholders  Equity
             Common Stock             The authorized number of shares of common stock at January 29, 2005 and
January 28, 2006 was 250,000 with a par value of $.001 per share. The revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes limit the Company s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions in respect
of its common stock.            During fiscal 2003, certain selling
stockholders sold a total of 12,230 shares of the Company s common stock, pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement previously filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company did not receive any
proceeds from the sale of the shares by the selling stockholders. Offering expenses of $1,423 were recorded by the Company as a direct charge to accumulated deficit during fiscal 2003. The Company terminated the shelf registration statement on
June 30, 2003.            During fiscal 2004, certain selling
stockholders sold a total of 12,227 shares of the Company s common stock, pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement previously filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company did not receive any
proceeds from the sale of the shares by the selling stockholders. Offering expenses of $548 were recorded by the Company as a direct charge to retained earnings during fiscal 2004. All shares of common stock available for sale under this
registration statement have been sold.         
   F-15   

Table of Contents  

   In March 2006, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $100 million of
its common stock. The number of shares to be purchased and the timing of purchases will be based on several factors, including the price of the Company s stock, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities. The
repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. As of the close of market on March 27, 2006, the Company had repurchased approximately 830 shares under the repurchase program for a total price of approximately $19.2 million.
            Preferred Stock             The authorized number of shares of preferred stock at January 29, 2005
and January 28, 2006 was 5,000 with a par value of $.01 per share. No shares of preferred stock were issued or outstanding at January 29, 2005 or January 28, 2006.             8. Employee Benefit Plans              Employee Savings and Retirement Plans             The Company has employee savings plans that permit eligible participants to make contributions by salary reduction pursuant to either section 401(k) of
the Internal Revenue Code or under the Company s non-qualified deferred compensation plan. The Company matches 50% of the first 6% of compensation that is contributed by each participating employee to the plans. In connection with the required
match, the Company s contributions to the plans were $1,364 in fiscal 2003, $1,474 in fiscal 2004 and $1,706 in fiscal 2005.             Stock Option Plans             Stock options granted under the 1994 Stock Option Plan are exercisable for up to ten years following the date of grant. As of January 28, 2006, there
were 290 options outstanding under the 1994 Stock Option Plan, and no further grants will be made. Options granted under the 1994 Stock Option Plan generally vest 100% on the date which is three years from the date of the grant.            The 2002 Incentive Award Plan (the  Incentive Plan ) provides for
the granting of stock-based compensation awards, including stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock, dividend equivalents, performance awards, stock payments and other stock-related benefits to officers, employees,
consultants and directors. Stock options granted under the Incentive Plan generally vest 100% on the date which is three years from the date of the grant and expire ten years from the date of the grant. Except with regard to grants to independent
directors, the aggregate share limit under the Incentive Plan is equal to the sum of (1) 1,115 shares of common stock, plus (2) on March 1 of each year during the term of the Incentive Plan commencing on March 1, 2003, a number
of shares of common stock equal to 2.0% of the total number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock outstanding as of the last day of the fiscal year immediately preceding such March 1. With respect to grants to the Company s
independent directors, the aggregate share limit under the Incentive Plan is equal to the sum of (1) 56 shares of common stock, plus (2) on March 1 of each year during the term of the Incentive Plan commencing on March 1, 2003, a
number of shares of common stock equal to 0.1% of the total number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock as of the last day of the fiscal year immediately preceding such March 1. At January 28, 2006, options to purchase 933
shares remained available for future grant under the Incentive Plan. All option grants under the Incentive Plan had an exercise price equal to the market price of the underlying common stock on the date of grant.         
   F-16   

Table of Contents  

   Information regarding the Company s stock option plans is as follows:         
          The following table
summarizes information about the options outstanding under the Company s stock option plans at January 28, 2006:         
          See Note 1(r) for a
discussion of the Company s accounting for stock-based compensation expense.             9. Income Taxes             Income taxes consisted of the
following:         
       
   F-17   

Table of Contents  

   A reconciliation of income taxes at the federal statutory rate of 35% with the provision for income taxes
follows:         
          The sources of
significant temporary differences which gave rise to the deferred tax provision and their effects follow:         
       
   F-18   

Table of Contents  

   Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of the Company s deferred tax assets and liabilities follow:         
          Deferred taxes are
reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as follows:         
          The valuation
allowance of $8,768 at January 29, 2005 related to a capital loss arising from the Company s divestiture of an Internet investment in fiscal 2000. As the capital loss carryforward expired on January 28, 2006, the related deferred tax
asset and corresponding valuation allowance has been written off. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
realized. Management considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Based upon the level of historical taxable income and projections for future
taxable income over the periods in which the deferred tax assets are deductible, management believes it is more likely than not that the Company will realize the benefits of these deductible differences, net of the valuation allowance.   
        At January 28, 2006, the Company has available net loss carryforwards
of $33 for state and local income tax purposes, which begin expiring in tax year 2021.             10. Contingencies             On April 18, 2005, the
Company and its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer were named as defendants in a purported class action filed in United States District Court for the Southern District of California alleging violations of Sections 10 and 20 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The named plaintiff purports to  
       
   F-19   

Table of Contents  

represent a class of purchasers of the Company s stock during the period November 18, 2004 to April 14, 2005, and alleges that during such
period the defendants misrepresented the Company s financial position and that the plaintiff and the purported class of purchasers during that period were damaged by paying artificially and falsely inflated prices for the Company s stock.
The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages. Over the next several weeks, three additional purported class actions were filed in the same court alleging essentially the same claims against the Company and its officers and adding the
Company s Chairman as a defendant. These cases were consolidated, and in October 2005 a consolidated complaint was filed extending the class period from August 18, 2004 to August 25, 2005, adding additional but similar causes of
action, and naming additional defendants, including the Company s President and Chief Operating Officer, several of the Company s Senior Vice Presidents, several former and current members of the Company s Board of Directors, and two
former stockholders of the Company. In January 2006, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint on the ground that it failed to state facts sufficient to state a claim under the securities laws. A hearing on the motion is
scheduled for May 2006. The Company has tendered these matters to its insurance carriers.            Although there can be no assurance that unfavorable outcomes in the foregoing matters would not have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position or results of operations, management believes the
claims are without merit, strong defenses exist, and management intends to vigorously defend against the actions. The Company has not recorded any accrual for contingent liability associated with the legal proceedings described above based on
management s belief that a liability, while possible, is not probable. Further, any possible range of loss cannot be estimated at this time.            On April 22, 2005, an alleged owner of the Company s stock, derivatively sued all of the Company s directors and its Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, purportedly on behalf of the Company, alleging that such officers and directors engaged in breaches of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment and other
violations of California law during the period November 18, 2004 to the present. The complaint, filed in Superior Court of the State of California for the County of San Diego, seeks to recover on behalf of the Company alleged unspecified
damages sustained by the Company as a result of such alleged actions, treble damages, disgorgement of profits from the sale of the Company s securities and benefits and compensation obtained by the individual defendants, and extraordinary
equitable and/or injunctive relief as permitted by law. Also on April 22, 2005, another shareholder derivative action was filed in Superior Court of the State of California for the County of San Diego on behalf of another alleged owner of the
Company s stock against the same defendants and with substantially similar allegations to those described above. These actions have been consolidated. In August 2005, the defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated complaint on the ground that
the stockholders had failed to make a demand on the Company s Board and failed to adequately allege that a demand was excused. The Court granted the motion but gave the plaintiffs leave to amend. The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint which
defendants have again moved to dismiss. A hearing on defendants  motion is now scheduled for April 2006. The Company has tendered these matters to its insurance carriers, and does not believe the outcome of these matters will have a material
adverse impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations in any future period.            On June 27, 2005, the Company was named as a defendant in a purported class action filed in the Superior Court of the State of California for the
County of Los Angeles alleging violations of the California Labor Code. The named plaintiffs, Wayne Boyd, Anthony Castro, Gilbert Hernandez, and Daniel Lepkosky, purport to represent all current and former hourly, non-exempt employees of the
Company s California stores from June 27, 2001 to the present. These plaintiffs allege that during this period they were not paid all wages, were not paid overtime, were not authorized and permitted to take rest breaks as required by law,
were not provided meal breaks as required by law, were not paid  reporting time  pay, and were not paid all wages upon separation from employment. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages in the form of unpaid wages, penalties and
other relief. On March 2, 2006, Plaintiff Gilbert Hernandez requested that his claims against the Company be dismissed. This request is subject to court approval.            On September 19, 2005, another purported class action alleging Labor Code violations was filed in the Superior Court of
the State of California for the County of Los Angeles naming the Company as the defendant.  
       
   F-20   

Table of Contents  

The named plaintiff in the September 19 suit, Natalie Wade, purports to represent a class of current and former employees of the Company who she alleges
were not paid all wages earned, were not provided meal breaks, were not authorized and permitted to take rest breaks, and were not provided with itemized wage statements as required by law. This complaint also seeks unspecified monetary damages and
other relief. A first amended complaint was filed on or about November 16, 2005. This amendment neither added nor altered any of the causes of action asserted but appears to have been made in an effort to cure a failure to comply with certain
administrative requirements. In February 2006, Plaintiff Natalie Wade s lawsuit against the Company was voluntarily dismissed by Ms. Wade in exchange for the Company s agreement not to seek costs incurred in defending against the
lawsuit.            Although there can be no assurance that unfavorable
outcomes in the foregoing matters would not have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position or results of operations, management believes the claims are without merit, strong defenses exist, and management intends to
vigorously defend against these actions. The Company has not recorded any accrual for contingent liability associated with the legal proceedings described above based on management s belief that a liability, while possible, is not probable.
Further, any possible range of loss cannot be estimated at this time.            The Company is involved in other routine litigation arising in the ordinary course of its business. While the results of such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company believes that the final outcome of such matters will
not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position or results of operations in any future period.             11. Supplemental Guarantor Condensed Consolidating Financial Information          
  Effective January 13, 2005, the Company implemented a new holding company structure. The restructuring was accomplished through a merger pursuant
to which all of the stockholders of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. at the effective time of the merger became stockholders of the new parent holding company, and PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the new parent holding
company and changed its name to PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. The business operations of the Company have not changed as a result of the restructuring. The new parent holding company has taken the PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. name and trades
under the same symbol on the NASDAQ National Market.            The
Company s senior subordinated notes are issued by PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. (the subsidiary issuer) and are guaranteed by the parent company and certain subsidiaries of the parent company (the guarantor subsidiaries) on a full and
unconditional basis. Each of the guarantor subsidiaries is, directly or indirectly, 100% owned by the subsidiary issuer, and the guarantees are joint and several. One of the Company s subsidiaries (the non-guarantor subsidiary) does not
guarantee such debt.         
   F-21   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables present the condensed consolidating balance sheet information of PETCO Animal
Supplies, Inc. as of January 29, 2005 and January 28, 2006 and the related condensed consolidating statement of operation and cash flow information for each of the years in the three-year period ended January 28, 2006.             CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION              January 29, 2005        (in thousands)          
       
   F-22   

Table of Contents  

    PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.              CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION              January 28, 2006        (in thousands)          
       
   F-23   

Table of Contents  

    PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.              CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATION INFORMATION              For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004        (in thousands)          
           CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATION INFORMATION              For
the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005        (in thousands)          
       
   F-24   

Table of Contents  

    PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.              CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATION INFORMATION              For the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006        (in thousands)          
           CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION              For
the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004        (in thousands)          
       
   F-25   

Table of Contents  

    PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.              CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION              For the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005        (in thousands)          
       
   F-26   

Table of Contents  

    PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.              CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION              For the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006        (in thousands)          
       
   F-27   

Table of Contents  

    Exhibit Index          

Exhibit       Number     
      
     Description      

2.1  
      
  Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of January 13, 2005, by and among the PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. (formerly PETCO Animal Supplies,
Inc.) and PETCO Merger Co. (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005 (with respect to the holding company reorganization of PETCO)).   

3.1  
      
  Certificate of Incorporation of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. as filed with the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on January 10, 2005, as amended by the Certificate
of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation as filed with the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on January 13, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005 (with respect
to the holding company reorganization of PETCO)).   

3.2  
      
  Bylaws of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005 (with respect to the holding company reorganization of
PETCO)).   

4.1  
      
  Indenture, dated as of October 26, 2001, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc., certain subsidiaries of PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and U.S. Bank N.A., as trustee
(incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

4.2  
      
  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 14, 2005, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., E-Pet Services, E-Pet Services, LLC and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee
(incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005 (with respect to the holding company reorganization of PETCO)).   

4.3  
      
  Form of Specimen Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2002, as amended).   

4.4  
      
  Form of Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, dated as of February 19, 2002, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and certain stockholders of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc.
(incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.1#  
      
  Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of October 2, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and Brian K. Devine (incorporated by reference to Registration
Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.2#  
      
  First Amendment, dated June 27, 2005, to Employment Agreement, dated as of October 2, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and Brian K. Devine (incorporated by reference
to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005).   

10.3#  
      
  Employment Agreement, dated as of October 2, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and Bruce C. Hall (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1,
as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.4#  
      
  First Amendment, dated June 27, 2005, to Employment Agreement, dated as of October 2, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and Bruce C. Hall (incorporated by reference
to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005).   

10.5#  
      
  Employment Agreement, dated as of October 2, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and James M. Myers (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1,
as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.6#  
      
  First Amendment, dated June 27, 2005, to Employment Agreement, dated as of October 2, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and James M. Myers (incorporated by reference
to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005).   

10.7#  
      
  Form of Indemnification Agreement between PETCO and certain officers and directors (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No.
333-75830)).   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit       Number     
      
     Description      

10.8#  
      
  Form of Retention Agreement for executive officers (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.9#  
      
  Form of Retention Agreement for non-executive officers (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.10#  
      
  Form of Second Amendment to Retention Agreement for executive and non-executive officers (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29,
2005).   

10.11#  
      
  PETCO Animal Supplies 401(k) plan (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-100397)).   

10.12#  
      
  PETCO Flexible Benefit Plan, amended and restated effective July 1, 1998 (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No.
333-75830)).   

10.13#  
      
  The 1994 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan for Executive and Key Employees of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., as amended and restated as of October 2, 2000 (incorporated by reference
to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.14#  
      
  Form of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. Non-qualified Stock Option Agreement (1994 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan for Executive and Key Employees) (incorporated by reference to
Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.15#  
      
  Form of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. Incentive Stock Option Agreement (1994 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan for Executive and Key Employees) (incorporated by reference to Registration
Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.16  
      
  Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 17, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and BD Recapitalization Corp. (incorporated by reference to Registration
Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.17  
      
  First Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 14, 2000, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and BD Recapitalization Corp. (incorporated by
reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.18 #  
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for units granted pursuant to the 2002 Incentive Award Plan of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc.   

10.19#  
      
  PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.20#  
      
  First Amendment to PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29,
2005).   

10.21#  
      
  2002 Incentive Award Plan of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-75830)).   

10.22 #  
      
  Form of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. Stock Option Agreement (2002 Incentive Award Plan).   

10.23#  
      
  Consulting Agreement, dated as of November 29, 2001, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and Brian K. Devine (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended February 2, 2002, as amended).   

10.24#  
      
  First Amendment, dated June 27, 2005, to Consulting Agreement, dated as of November 29, 2001, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and Brian K. Devine (incorporated by
reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005).   

10.25#  
      
  Supplemental Executive Retirement Program, dated as of November 29, 2001, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. and Brian K. Devine (incorporated by reference to Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2002, as amended).   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit       Number     
      
     Description      

10.26#  
      
  PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. Amended and Restated Executive Incentive Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29,
2005).   

10.27  
      
  Credit Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc., the financial institutions party thereto as lenders, Wells
Fargo Bank, National Association, as sole lead arranger, book runner and administrative agent for the lenders, Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agent, and U.S. Bank National Association and Union Bank of California, N.A., as co-documentation
agents (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005 (with respect to the execution of the Credit Agreement)).   

10.28  
      
  Form of Revolving Note executed in connection with the Credit Agreement referenced as Exhibit 10.27 (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005
(with respect to the execution of the Credit Agreement)).   

10.29  
      
  First Amendment, dated as of March 10, 2005, to Credit Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc., the
financial institutions party thereto as lenders, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent for the lenders (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29,
2005).   

10.30  
      
  Second Amendment, dated as of April 29, 2005, to Credit Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc., the
financial institutions party thereto as lenders, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent for the lenders (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 29, 2005).   

10.31  
      
  Third Amendment, dated as of May 31, 2005, to Credit Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc., the
financial institutions party thereto as lenders, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent for the lenders (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 3, 2005).   

10.32  
      
  Fourth Amendment, dated as of March 17, 2006, to Credit Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, as amended, by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., PETCO Animal Supplies Stores,
Inc., the financial institutions party thereto as  Lenders  and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent for the Lenders (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 23,
2006).   

10.33  
      
  Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on January 14, 2005 (with respect to the holding company reorganization of PETCO)).   

10.34 #  
      
  Form of Waiver and Amendment of Retention Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2005, for executive and non-executive officers, and Form of Waiver and Amendment to Employment Agreement,
dated as of January 13, 2005, for certain executive officers.   

10.35#  
      
  Employment Agreement, dated January 23, 2006, by and between PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and David Bolen (incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
January 23, 2006).   

21.1   
      
  List of subsidiaries of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc.   

23.1   
      
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.   

31.1   
      
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   

Table of Contents  

Filed herewith.           

#  
  Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.           

*  
  These certifications are being furnished solely to accompany this annual report pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, and are not being filed for purposes of Section 18 of
the Exchange Act and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.     

<EX-10.18>
 2
 dex1018.htm
 FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement 

EXHIBIT 10.18          

RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT         AGREEMENT NUMBER     

NUMBER OF RESTRICTED STOCK         UNITS GRANTED      
    THIS  RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT  AGREEMENT (the  Agreement ) dated
                       (the  Grant Date ) is made by and between PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
 Company ) , and                        (the  Grantee ).      WHEREAS, the Company has established the 2002 Stock Incentive Award Plan of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. (as amended or restated from time to time, the  Plan ), the terms of which are hereby incorporated by
reference and made a part of this Agreement; and      WHEREAS, the Plan provides for the award of shares of the Company s Common Stock subject to such
terms and conditions as the Administrator appointed to administer the Plan may specify (the  Restricted Stock Units  and      WHEREAS, the Company
wishes to grant the Grantee                        Restricted Stock Units representing the right to receive an equivalent number of shares of
the Company s $0.001 par value Common Stock subject to the terms of this Agreement; and      WHEREAS, the Administrator has determined that it would be to
the advantage and best interest of the Company and its stockholders to grant the Restricted Stock Units provided for herein to the Grantee in consideration of services to the Company and/or its Subsidiaries;      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties
hereto do hereby agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth on the reverse side hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this
Agreement has been executed and delivered by the parties hereto.       

PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc.   

I hereby acknowledge receipt of the foregoing Restricted Stock Unit on the Grant Date and agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement:   

Grantee:   

(Signature):    
 
    By:   

Title:   

Grantee ID:   

THIS CERTIFICATE REPRESENTS A RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT AND NOT AN        ACTUAL SHARE OF STOCK    

ARTICLE 1   DEFINITIONS       Whenever the following terms are used below in this Agreement they shall have the meaning specified below unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary. All capitalized terms used herein without definition
shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.      Section 1.1  Restricted Stock Units .  Restricted Stock Unit  shall mean
an award of a right to receive a share of the Company s Common Stock subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.      Section 1.2
 Restrictions .  Restrictions  shall mean the exposure to termination of the Restricted Stock Units under this Agreement.      Section 1.3
 Retirement .  Retirement  shall mean a Termination of Employment other than a discharge for good cause (as determined by the Administrator) if the sum of (i) the Grantee s age as of the date of termination plus
(ii) the number of full years of the Grantee s service with the Company as of the date of termination, is equal to or greater than seventy (70); provided, however, that the Grantee s Retirement shall not be deemed to have occurred
unless the Grantee has at least five (5) full years of service with the Company.       ARTICLE II   GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
      Section 2.1  Grant of Restricted Stock Units . In consideration of the Grantee s agreement to remain in the employ of the Company or a
Subsidiary and for other good and valuable consideration, on the date hereof the Company hereby grants to the Grantee that number of Restricted Stock Units set forth above (the  Award ) under the Plan upon the terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement. The Grantee accepts the Award and agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan with respect to the Award.      Section 2.2  Consideration to the Company . In consideration of the grant of Restricted Stock Units by the Company, the Grantee agrees to render faithful and efficient services to the Company or a Subsidiary with such duties and
responsibilities as the Company shall from time to time prescribe. Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall, however, confer upon the Grantee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary or shall interfere with or
restrict in any way the rights of the Company and its Subsidiaries, which are hereby expressly reserved, to terminate or discharge the Grantee at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without good cause.      Section 2.3  Restricted Stock Unit Account . The Company shall establish and maintain a Restricted Stock Unit account for and on behalf of the Grantee and
shall record in such account the number of Restricted Stock Units awarded to the Grantee. No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to the Grantee at the time the Award is made, and the Grantee shall not be, nor have any of the rights or privileges
of, a stockholder of the Company with respect to any Restricted Stock Units recorded in such account. The Restricted Stock Units shall not be treated as property or as a trust fund of any kind, and the Grantee shall not have any interest in any fund
or specific assets of the Company by reason of the Restricted Stock Unit account established for the Grantee.      Section 2.4  Adjustments to
Restricted Stock Units . The Administrator shall make adjustments with respect to the Restricted Stock Units in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.3 of the Plan.       ARTICLE III   RESTRICTIONS AND SETTLEMENT       Section 3.1  Forfeiture of Restricted
Stock Units . All Restricted Stock Units with respect to which the Restrictions have not lapsed shall be terminated immediately upon a Termination of Employment for any reason other than Retirement. If the Grantee incurs a Termination of
Employment as a result of the Grantee s Retirement and such Termination of Employment occurs prior to the lapse of Restrictions in accordance with Section 3.2, the Restricted Stock Unit shall not be terminated, but shall be settled when
and as described under Section 3.2.      Section 3.2  Lapse of Restrictions .       

(a)  
   General . The Restrictions shall lapse as follows:         

(i)  
  The Restrictions shall lapse with respect to thirty-three and one-third percent (33 1/3%) of the Restricted Stock Units on the first anniversary of the Grant Date;

(ii)  
  The Restrictions shall lapse with respect to thirty-three and one-third percent (33 1/3%) of the Restricted Stock Units on the second anniversary of the Grant Date;

(iii)  
  The Restrictions shall lapse with respect to thirty-three and one-third percent (33 1/3%) of the Restricted Stock Units on the third anniversary of the Grant Date;
       provided, however, that the Restrictions shall not lapse with respect to a fractional share until the latest date on which the Restrictions
applicable to all Restricted Stock Units have lapsed.       

(b)  
   Settlement of Restricted Stock Units . The Company shall settle the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which the Restrictions lapse by converting those Restricted Stock
Units into shares of the Company s Common Stock to be issued to the Grantee on the dates that the Restrictions lapse, subject to compliance with the conditions of the Agreement.         

(c)  
   Delay of Settlement . Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a settlement date occurs on a date that is not during a  window period  (which means a period designated by
the Company during which the Grantee is permitted to purchase or sell shares of Common Stock) then, unless the Company determines otherwise, the settlement date automatically shall be deferred to the first trading day of the first  window
period  beginning after such date. In addition, if a settlement date occurs at a time when the Company reasonably anticipates that its deduction with respect to the payment otherwise would be limited or eliminated by application of
Section 162(m) of the Code, then, unless the Company determines otherwise, delivery of the shares of Common Stock automatically shall be deferred until the first trading day of the first  window period  after the payment would cease
to be subject to such limitation or elimination. Notwithstanding the foregoing,  in no event  shall settlement be delayed pursuant to this subparagraph (c) to a date that is after the end of the calendar year in which the Restrictions
applicable to the Restricted Stock Unit have lapsed.         ARTICLE IV   OTHER PROVISIONS       Section 4.1  Restricted Stock Units Not Transferable . Neither the Restricted Stock Units nor any interest or right therein or part thereof shall be liable for
the debts, contracts, or engagements of the Grantee or his successors in interest or shall be subject to disposition by transfer, alienation, anticipation, pledge, encumbrance, assignment or any other means whether such disposition be voluntary or
involuntary or by operation of law by judgment, levy, attachment, garnishment or any other legal or equitable proceedings (including bankruptcy) and any attempted disposition thereof shall be null and void and of no effect; provided, however, that
this Section 4.1 shall not prevent transfers by will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution.      Section 4.2  Conditions to
Issuance of Stock Certificates . The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for shares of stock pursuant to this Agreement prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions:       

(a)  
  The admission of such shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; and         

(b)  
  The completion of any registration or other qualification of such shares under any state or Federal law or under rulings or regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission or
of any other governmental regulatory body, which the Administrator shall, in its absolute discretion, deem necessary or advisable; and         

(c)  
  The obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any state or Federal governmental agency which the Administrator shall, in its absolute discretion, determine to be necessary
or advisable;         

(d)  
  The receipt by the Company (or the Grantee s actual employer) of full payment of all amounts which, under applicable law, the Company (or actual employer) is required to
withhold upon the vesting or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units; and         

(e)  
  The lapse of such reasonable period of time as the Administrator may from time to time establish for reasons of administrative convenience.        Section 4.3  Tax Withholding . No stock certificates will be issued to the Grantee unless the Grantee has made arrangements acceptable to the Company to pay
any withholding taxes that may be due in connection with any aspect of this Award, including the vesting and settlement of the Award. The Grantee also hereby authorizes the Company, or the Grantee s actual employer, to satisfy all withholding
obligations of the Company or the actual employer from the Grantee s wages or other cash compensation payable to the Grantee by the Company or the actual employer. The number of shares of Common Stock which may be withheld or repurchased from
the Grantee in order to satisfy the Grantee s federal and state income and payroll tax liabilities with respect to any aspect of this Award shall be limited to the number of shares which have a Fair Market Value on the date of withholding or
repurchase equal to the aggregate amount of such liabilities based on the minimum statutory withholding rates for federal and state tax income and payroll tax purposes that are applicable to such supplemental taxable income.      Section 4.4  Investor Representations . The Grantee hereby represents and warrants to the Company: (a) that the Common Stock subject to the Restricted
Stock Units is being acquired for purposes of investment and not with a view to distribution thereof; (b) that if the Grantee is or becomes an affiliate of the Company (as defined in regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission) prior to the time of any proposed resale of shares acquired, or if such shares are not registered under the Securities Act, the Grantee will comply with all applicable conditions of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder in effecting such resale; and (c) that the Grantee shall not dispose of any shares of such Common Stock in any manner that is, or may involve the Company in, a violation of any federal or state securities law, including
the Securities Act. The Administrator may require that the share certificates be inscribed with a legend restricting transfer in accordance with applicable securities law requirements.      By signing this Agreement, the Grantee agrees not to sell any shares of the Company s Common Stock issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units at a time when applicable laws or Company policies prohibit
a sale. This restriction will apply as long as the Grantee is an employee, consultant or director of the Company or a Subsidiary.      Section 4.5
 Rights as Stockholder . The holder of the Award shall not be, nor have any of the rights or privileges of, a stockholder of the Company in respect of any shares subject to the Award unless and until certificates representing such shares shall
have been issued by the Company to such holder.      Section 4.6  Beneficiary Designation . The Grantee may dispose of the Restricted Stock Units in
a written beneficiary designation. A beneficiary designation must be filed with the Company on the proper form. It will be recognized only if it has been received at the Company s headquarters before the Grantee s death. If the Grantee
files no beneficiary designation or if none of the Grantee s designated beneficiaries survives the Grantee, then the Grantee s estate will receive any vested Restricted Stock Units that the Grantee holds at the time of death.   
  Section 4.7  Section 409A . The Grantee acknowledges that this Agreement and the Plan, or portions thereof, may be subject to Section 409A of the
Code, that rules interpreting this Code section may be issued in the future, and that changes may need to be made to this Agreement to avoid adverse tax consequences under Section 409A. The Grantee agrees that the Company may amend the
Agreement as it deems necessary or desirable to avoid such adverse tax consequences.      Section 4.8  Notices . Any notice to be given under the
terms of this Agreement to the Company shall be addressed to the Company in care of its Secretary and any notice to be given to the Grantee shall be addressed to him at the address set forth in the records of the Company. By a notice given pursuant
to this Section 4.8, either party may hereafter designate a different address for notices to be given to him. Any notice which is required to be given to the Grantee shall, if the Grantee is then deceased, be given to the Grantee s
personal representative if such representative has previously informed the Company of his status and address by written notice under this Section 4.8. Any notice shall have been deemed duly given when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or
wrapper addressed as aforesaid, deposited (with postage prepaid) in a post office or branch post office regularly maintained by the United States Postal Service.      Section 4.9  Miscellaneous . Titles are provided herein for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement. This Agreement shall be administered, interpreted and enforced
under the internal laws of the State of California without regard to conflicts of laws thereof. This Agreement and the Plan may be amended without the consent of the Grantee, provided that such amendment would not impair any rights of the Grantee
under this Agreement. The invalidity or unenforceability of any particular provision hereof shall not affect the other provisions hereof, and this Agreement shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid or unenforceable provision was
omitted. The Award and any payments with respect thereto shall not constitute  compensation  for purposes of any pension, welfare or other benefit plan or policy of the Company unless provided for therein. This Agreement may be executed
simultaneously in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Company s rights and obligations hereunder
may be assigned to any Subsidiary or to any successor pursuant to a merger, consolidation or similar event. Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement and the respective rights and obligations of the parties hereto shall inure to the benefit of and be
binding upon, the successors and assigns of the parties.   

</EX-10.18>

<EX-10.22>
 3
 dex1022.htm
 FORM OF PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC. STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT

Form of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. Stock Option Agreement 

EXHIBIT10.22          

STOCK OPTION         AGREEMENT NUMBER     

NUMBER OF STOCK         OPTIONS GRANTED      
    THIS  NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION  AGREEMENT, dated 
                        ( Effective Date ), is made by and between PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
 Company)  and                        (the  Optionee ):      WHEREAS, the Company has established the 2002 Stock Incentive Award Plan of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. (as amended or restated from time to time, the  Plan ), the terms of which are hereby incorporated by
reference and made a part of this Agreement; and      WHEREAS, the Company wishes to grant the Optionee the opportunity to purchase
                       shares of its $0.001 par value Common Stock (the  Option Shares ) at a purchase price of
                       per share (the  Purchase Price ), subject to the terms of this Agreement (the  Option  and
     WHEREAS, the Administrator has determined that it would be to the advantage and best interest of the Company and its stockholders to grant the Option
provided for herein to the Optionee in consideration of services to the Company and/or its Subsidiaries;      WHEREAS, this Option is NOT intended to qualify
as an  incentive stock option  within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code.      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the
mutual covenants herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto do hereby agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth on the reverse side hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed and delivered by the parties hereto.       

PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc.   

I hereby acknowledge receipt of the foregoing Non-Qualified Stock Option on the Grant Date and agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement:   

Optionee:   

(Signature)    
 
    By:   

Title:   

Optionee ID:   

THIS CERTIFICATE REPRESENTS A STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT AND NOT AN ACTUAL SHARE OF STOCK

ARTICLE I   DEFINITIONS       Whenever the following terms are used in this Agreement, they shall have the meaning specified below unless the context clearly indicates to the
contrary. All capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.      1.1
 Retirement .  Retirement  shall mean a Termination of Employment other than a discharge for good cause (as determined by the Administrator) if the sum of (i) Optionee s age as of the date of termination plus (ii) the
number of full years of Optionee s service with the Company as of the date of termination, is equal to or greater than seventy (70); provided, however, that Optionee s Retirement shall not be deemed to have occurred unless Optionee has at
least five (5) full years of service with the Company.       ARTICLE II   GRANT OF OPTION       2.1  Grant of Option . In consideration of the Optionee s agreement to provide services to the Company or its Subsidiaries, and for other good
and valuable consideration, on the date hereof the Company irrevocably grants to the Optionee the option to purchase any part or all of the aggregate number of shares of its $0.001 par value Common Stock set forth above upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement.      2.2  Purchase Price . The purchase price of the shares of stock covered by the Option shall be the price
set forth above, without commission or other charge.      2.3  Consideration to Company . In consideration of the grant of this Option by
the Company, the Optionee agrees to render faithful and efficient services to the Company or a Subsidiary, with such duties and responsibilities as the Company shall from time to time prescribe. Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer
upon the Optionee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary, or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the rights of the Company and its Subsidiaries, which are hereby expressly reserved, to discharge the Optionee at
any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause.      2.4  Adjustments in Option . The Administrator shall make adjustments with
respect to the Option in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.3 of the Plan.       ARTICLE III   PERIOD OF EXERCISABILITY
      3.1  Commencement of Exercisability .      (a) Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the Option shall become 100% vested and fully exercisable on the third anniversary hereof.
     (b) No portion of the Option which is unvested or unexercisable at Termination of Employment shall thereafter become vested
or exercisable.      (c) Notwithstanding subsection (b), if the Optionee incurs a Termination of Employment as a result of the
Optionee s Retirement and such Termination of Employment occurs prior to the date the Option becomes vested and fully exercisable in accordance with Section 3.1(a), the Option shall become fully vested as of the date of such Termination of
Employment, but shall not be exercisable until the third anniversary of the Effective Date.      3.2  Duration of Exercisability . The
Option shall remain exercisable as provided in Section 3.1 until it becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3.      3.3  Expiration
of Option . The Option may not be exercised to any extent by anyone after the first to occur of the following events:      (a) The expiration of ten (10) years from the date the Option was granted; or      (b) Subject to subsection (c),
the expiration of three (3) months from the date of the Optionee s Termination of Employment unless such Termination of Employment results from his death or his disability (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code), provided
that if the Optionee dies within said three (3) month period, the period shall be extended to end twelve (12) months from the date of Optionee s death;      (c) To the extent the Optionee incurs a Termination of Employment as a result of the Optionee s Retirement as set forth in
Section 3.1(c), the last to occur of the following: (1) if the Optionee dies prior to the third anniversary of the Effective Date, the expiration of twelve (12) months from the date of Optionee s death, (2) three
(3) months from the date the Option becomes exercisable pursuant to Section 3.1(c), or (3) if the Optionee dies within said three (3) month period, the expiration of twelve (12) months from the date of Optionee s death;
or         (d) The expiration of twelve (12) months
from the date of the Optionee s Termination of Employment by reason of his disability (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code) or death, provided that if the Optionee dies within said twelve (12) month period, the period
shall be extended to end twelve (12) months from the date of Optionee s death.       ARTICLE IV   EXERCISE OF OPTION
      4.1  Person Eligible to Exercise . Except as provided in Section 5.1, during the lifetime of the Optionee, only he may
exercise the Option or any portion thereof. After the death of the Optionee, any exercisable portion of the Option may, prior to the time when the Option becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3, be exercised by his personal representative or by
any person empowered to do so under the deceased Optionee s will or under the then applicable laws of descent and distribution.      4.2
 Partial Exercise . Any exercisable portion of the Option or the entire Option, if then wholly exercisable, may be exercised in whole or in part at any time prior to the time when the Option or portion thereof becomes unexercisable under
Section 3.3; provided, however, that each partial exercise shall be for whole shares only.      4.3  Manner of Exercise . The Option,
or any exercisable portion thereof, may be exercised solely by delivery to the Secretary or his office of all of the following prior to the time when the Option or such portion becomes unexercisable under Section 3.3:      (a) A written notice complying with the applicable rules established by the Administrator stating that the Option, or a portion thereof,
is exercised. The notice shall be signed by the Optionee or other person then entitled to exercise the Option or such portion; and      (b) Full cash payment to the Secretary of the Company for the shares with respect to which such Option or portion is exercised; or      (i) With the consent of the Administrator, a notice that the Optionee has placed a market sell order with a broker with respect to shares of the Company s Common Stock then issuable upon exercise of the Option,
and that the broker has been directed to pay a sufficient portion of the net proceeds of the sale to the Company in satisfaction of the Option exercise price; or      (ii) With the consent of the Administrator, any other consideration permitted under the Plan; and      (c) A bona fide written representation and agreement, in a form satisfactory to the Administrator, signed by the Optionee or other person
then entitled to exercise such Option or portion, stating that the shares of stock are being acquired for his own account, for investment and without any present intention of distributing or reselling said shares or any of them except as may be
permitted under the Securities Act and then applicable rules and regulations thereunder, and that the Optionee or other person then entitled to exercise such Option or portion will indemnify the Company against and hold it free and harmless from any
loss, damage, expense or liability resulting to the Company if any sale or distribution of the shares by such person is contrary to the representation and agreement referred to above. The Administrator may, in its sole discretion, take whatever
additional actions it deems appropriate to insure the observance and performance of such representation and agreement and to effect compliance with the Securities Act and any other federal or state securities laws or regulations. Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, the Administrator may require an opinion of counsel acceptable to it to the effect that any subsequent transfer of shares acquired on an Option exercise does not violate the Securities Act, and may issue
stop-transfer orders covering such shares. Share certificates evidencing stock issued on exercise of this Option shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the provisions of this subsection (c) and the agreements herein. The written
representation and agreement referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (c) shall, however, not be required if the shares to be issued pursuant to such exercise have been registered under the Securities Act, and such registration is
then effective in respect of such shares; and      (d) Full payment to the Company (or other employer corporation) of all
amounts which, under federal, state or local tax law, it is required to withhold upon exercise of the Option; with the consent of the Administrator in the form of, (i) shares of the Company s Common Stock owned by the Optionee, duly
endorsed for transfer, with a Fair Market Value on the date of delivery equal to the sums required to be withheld, or (ii) shares of the Company s Common Stock issuable to the Optionee upon exercise of the Option with a Fair Market Value
on the date of exercise of the Option or any portion thereof equal to the sums required to be withheld, may be used to make all or part of such payment; provided that the number of shares of Common Stock which may be withheld with respect to the
issuance, vesting, exercise or payment of any Option (or which may be repurchased from the Optionee of such Option within six months after such shares of Common Stock were acquired by the Optionee from the Company) in order to satisfy the
Optionee s federal and state income and payroll tax liabilities with respect to the issuance, vesting, exercise or payment of the Option shall be limited to the number of shares which have a Fair Market Value on the date of withholding or
repurchase equal to the aggregate amount of such liabilities based on the minimum statutory withholding rates for federal and state tax income and payroll tax purposes that are applicable to such supplemental taxable income; and      (e) In the event the Option or portion shall be exercised pursuant to Section 4.1 by any person or persons other than the Optionee,
appropriate proof of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option.      By signing this Agreement, the Optionee agrees not to sell any shares of
the Company s Common Stock issued upon exercise of the Option at a time when applicable laws or Company policies prohibit a sale. This restriction will apply as long as the Optionee is an employee, consultant or director of the Company or a
Subsidiary.      4.4  Conditions to Issuance of Stock Certificates . The shares of stock deliverable upon the exercise of the Option, or
any portion thereof, may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have then been reacquired by the Company. Such shares shall be fully paid and nonassessable. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver
any certificate or certificates for shares of stock purchased upon the exercise of the Option or portion thereof prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions:      (a) The admission of such shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; and      (b) The completion of any registration or other qualification of such shares under any state or federal law or under rulings or
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission or of any other governmental regulatory body, which the Administrator shall, in its sole discretion, deem necessary or advisable; and      (c) The obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any state or federal governmental agency which the Administrator shall, in its
sole discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; and      (d) The receipt by the Company of full payment for such
shares, including payment of all amounts which, under federal, state or local tax law, the Company (or other employer corporation) is required to withhold upon exercise of the Option; and      (e) The lapse of such reasonable period of time following the exercise of the Option as the Administrator may from time to time establish
for reasons of administrative convenience.      4.5  Rights as Stockholder . The holder of the Option shall not be, nor have any of the
rights or privileges of, a stockholder of the Company in respect of any shares purchasable upon the exercise of any part of the Option unless and until certificates representing such shares shall have been issued by the Company to such holder.
      ARTICLE V   OTHER PROVISIONS       5.1  Option Not Transferable . Neither the Option nor any interest or right therein or part thereof shall be sold, pledged, assigned, or transferred in any manner other than by will or the laws of descent and
distribution, unless and until such Option has been exercised, or the shares underlying such Option have been issued, and all restrictions applicable to such shares have lapsed. Notwithstanding the foregoing the Option may be transferred by the
Optionee, in writing and with prior written notice to the Administrator, by gift, without the receipt of any consideration, to a member of the Optionee s immediate family, as defined in Rule 16a-1 under the Exchange Act, or to a trust for the
exclusive benefit of, or any other entity owned solely by, such members, provided that the Option shall continue to be subject to all of the terms and conditions as applicable to the original Optionee, and the transferee shall execute any and all
such documents requested by the Administrator in connection with the transfer, including, without limitation, to evidence the transfer and to satisfy any requirements for an exemption for the transfer under applicable federal and state securities
laws. Neither the Option nor any interest or right therein or part thereof shall be liable for the debts, contracts or engagements of the Optionee or his successors in interest or shall be subject to disposition by transfer, alienation,
anticipation, pledge, encumbrance, assignment or any other means whether such disposition be voluntary or involuntary or by operation of law by judgment, levy, attachment, garnishment or any other legal or equitable proceedings (including
bankruptcy), and any attempted disposition thereof shall be null and void and of no effect, except to the extent that such disposition is permitted by the preceding sentence.      5.2  Notices . Any notice to be given under the terms of this Agreement to the Company shall be addressed to the Company in care of its Secretary,
and any notice to be given to the Optionee shall be addressed to him at the address set forth in the records of the Company. By a notice given pursuant to this Section 5.2, either party may hereafter designate a different address for notices to
be given to him. Any notice which is required to be given to the Optionee shall, if the Optionee is then deceased, be given to the Optionee s personal representative if such representative has previously informed the Company of his status and
address by written notice under this Section 5.2. Any notice shall be deemed duly given when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper addressed as aforesaid, deposited (with postage prepaid) in a post office or branch post office
regularly maintained by the United States Postal Service; provided, however, that any notice to be given by the Optionee relating to the exercise of the Option or any portion thereof shall be deemed duly given upon receipt by the Secretary or his
office.      5.3  Miscellaneous . Titles are provided herein for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or
construction of this Agreement. This Agreement shall be administered, interpreted and enforced under the internal laws of the State of California without regard to conflicts of laws thereof. This Agreement and the Plan may be amended without the
consent of the Optionee, provided that such amendment would not impair any rights of the Optionee under this Agreement. No amendment of this Agreement shall, without the consent of the Optionee, impair any rights of the Optionee under this
Agreement. The invalidity or unenforceability of any particular provision hereof shall not affect the other provisions hereof, and this Agreement shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid or unenforceable provision was omitted. The
Option and any payments with respect thereto shall not constitute  compensation  for purposes of any pension, welfare or other benefit plan or policy of the Company unless provided for therein. This Agreement may be executed simultaneously
in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Company s rights and obligations hereunder may be assigned
to any Company Subsidiary or to any successor pursuant to a merger, consolidation or similar event. Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement and the respective rights and obligations of the parties hereto shall inure to the benefit of and be binding
upon, the successors and assigns of the parties.   

</EX-10.22>

<EX-10.34>
 4
 dex1034.htm
 FORM OF WAIVER AND AMENDMENT OF RETENTION AGREEMENT

Form of Waiver and Amendment of Retention Agreement 

Exhibit 10.34        FORM OF         WAIVER AND AMENDMENT OF RETENTION AGREEMENT        THIS WAIVER AND AMENDMENT (the  Waiver ), effective as of January 13, 2005, is made and entered into by and between PETCO Animal Supplies,
Inc., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and                        (the  Executive ).      WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company have entered into a prior Retention Agreement (the  Retention Agreement ), which provides Executive
with, among other things, certain severance benefits in the event of a qualifying termination following the occurrence of a  Change in Control  (as defined in the Retention Agreement) and accelerated vesting of outstanding options in the
event of a  Change in Control,  subject to the terms and conditions of the Retention Agreement.      WHEREAS, the Company is a party
to that certain Agreement and Plan of Reorganization (the  Reorganization Agreement ) dated as of January 2005, among the Company, PETCO Holding Co., a Delaware corporation ( HoldingCo ), and PETCO Merger Co., a wholly-owned
subsidiary of HoldingCo ( Merger Sub ), pursuant to which Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company with the Company surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of HoldingCo (the  Reorganization ).      WHEREAS, following the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement, the Executive will continue to be employed by the Company.   
  WHEREAS, in connection with the Reorganization, the Company and the Executive desire to enter into an amendment to the Retention Agreement that
provides that the Reorganization does not constitute a  Change in Control  under the Retention Agreement.      NOW THEREFORE, in
consideration of the mutual covenants set forth herein and other good and valuable consideration, including the Executive s continuing employment with the Company, the parties hereto agree to amend the Retention Agreement as follows:
     1. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Retention Agreement.      2. The Executive hereby agrees that the Reorganization and the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement shall not constitute a Change in
Control for purposes of the Retention Agreement. In addition, the Executive hereby agrees that none of the Executive s stock options shall vest or become exercisable as a result of the Reorganization and the transactions contemplated by the
Reorganization Agreement. The Executive hereby waives any and all rights under the Retention Agreement relating to or arising from the Reorganization and the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement.      3. Except as specifically set forth above, all of the terms and conditions of the Retention Agreement shall continue and remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.      4. This Waiver shall be administered, interpreted and enforced under the internal laws of the State of California
without regard to the principles of conflicts of laws thereof.      5. This Waiver may be executed in counterparts, and if so executed, each
such counterpart shall have the force and effect of an original.      6. The Executive hereby acknowledges that the Executive has had the
opportunity to review this Waiver with counsel of the Executive s choosing.   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Waiver has been executed and delivered by the parties hereto.        

PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.      a Delaware corporation    

By:   

Rodney Carter     Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

EXECUTIVE    

S-1   

FORM OF         WAIVER AND AMENDMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT        THIS WAIVER AND AMENDMENT (the
 Waiver ), effective as of January 13, 2005, is made and entered into by and among PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), PETCO Holding Co., a Delaware corporation ( HoIdingCo ), and
                       (the  Executive ).      WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company have entered into that certain Employment Agreement, dated as of October  2,  2000 (the  Employment Agreement ), which provides Executive with, among other
things, certain severance benefits in the event of a qualifying termination following the occurrence of a  Change in Control  (as defined in the Employment Agreement), subject to the terms and conditions of the Retention Agreement.
     WHEREAS, the Company is a party to that certain Agreement and Plan of Reorganization (the  Reorganization Agreement ) dated as
of January 2005, among the Company, HoldingCo and PETCO Merger Co., a wholly-owned subsidiary of HoldingCo ( Merger Sub ), pursuant to which Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company with the Company surviving as a wholly-owned
subsidiary of HoldingCo (the  Reorganization ).      WHEREAS, following the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization
Agreement, the Executive will continue to be employed by the Company and will also serve as the                        of HoldingCo.   
  WHEREAS, in connection with the Reorganization, the Company and the Executive desire to enter into an amendment to the Employment Agreement that
provides that the Reorganization does not constitute a  Change in Control  under the Employment Agreement.      NOW THEREFORE, in
consideration of the mutual covenants set forth herein and other good and valuable consideration, including the Executive s continuing employment with the Company, the parties hereto agree to amend the Employment Agreement as follows:
     1. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Employment Agreement.   
  2. The Executive hereby agrees that the Reorganization and the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement, including, without
limitation, HoldingCo s beneficial ownership of the common stock of the Company as a result of the Reorganization, shall not constitute a Change in Control for purposes of the Employment Agreement. The Executive hereby waives any and all rights
under the Employment Agreement relating to or arising from the Reorganization and the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement.      3. Except as specifically set forth above, all of the terms and conditions of the Employment Agreement shall continue and remain unchanged and in full force and effect.      4. This Waiver shall be administered, interpreted and enforced under the internal laws of the State of California without regard to the principles of
conflicts of laws thereof.      5. This Waiver may be executed in counterparts, and if so executed, each such counterpart shall have the force
and effect of an original.      6. The Executive hereby acknowledges that the Executive has had the opportunity to review this Waiver with
counsel of the Executive s choosing.   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Waiver has been executed and delivered by the parties hereto.        

PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.      a Delaware corporation    

By:   

Rodney Carter     Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

PETCO HOLDING CO.      a Delaware corporation    

By:   

Rodney Carter     Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

EXECUTIVE    

S-1   

</EX-10.34>

<EX-21.1>
 5
 dex211.htm
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES OF PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.

List of Subsidiaries of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. 

EXHIBIT 21.1       PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES, INC.      LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES       

Name    
      
     Jurisdiction of Organization     

PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc.   
      
    Delaware    

International Pet Supplies and Distribution, Inc.   
      
    California    

PETCO Southwest, Inc.   
      
    California    

Pet Concepts International   
      
    California    

PM Management Incorporated   
      
    California    

PETCO Southwest, L.P.   
      
    California    

E-Pet Services   
      
    California    

E-Pet Services, LLC   
      
    Virgnia    

17187 Yukon Inc.   
      
    Canada    

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

EXHIBIT 23.1       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      The Board of Directors
     PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc.:      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-84130 and 333-100397) on Form S-8 and (Nos. 333-112590 and 333-102512) on Form S-3 of our reports dated March 27, 2006, with
respect to the consolidated balance sheets of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. and subsidiaries as of January 28, 2006 and January 29, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity (deficit), and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended January 28, 2006, management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2006, and the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting as of January 28, 2006, which reports appear in the January 28, 2006, annual report on Form 10-K of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc.      /s/ KPMG LLP      San Diego, California      March 30, 2006   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1        Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant        to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002       I, James M. Myers, Chief Executive Officer of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2        Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant        to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002       I, Rodney Carter, Chief Financial Officer of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc., certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 31, 2006   

/s/ Rodney Carter    

Rodney Carter     Senior Vice President and     Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Certifications of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.1        Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as
created by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officer of PETCO Animal Supplies, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby certifies that:       

(i)  
  the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and         

(ii)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

Dated: March 31, 2006   

/s/ James M. Myers    

James M. Myers     Chief Executive Officer    
     Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as created by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officer of PETCO Animal Supplies,
Inc. (the  Company ) hereby certifies that:       

(i)  
  the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and         

(ii)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

Dated: March 31, 2006   

/s/ Rodney Carter    

Rodney Carter     Chief Financial Officer    
     The foregoing certifications are being furnished solely to accompany the Report pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  
1350, and are not being filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of
any general incorporation language in such filing.        A signed original of the written statements required by Section 906 have been provided to
the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.    

</EX-32.1>

