<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_946454_0001104659-06-021094_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1520487</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>177828</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>899847</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>42</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021094.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331124157
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021094
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BALLANTYNE OF OMAHA INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000946454
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES [3861]
		IRS NUMBER:				470587703
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13906
		FILM NUMBER:		06726854

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		4350 MCKINLEY ST
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68112
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4024534444

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		4350 MCKINLEY ST
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68112

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JgDvc6f25sVvqqpDpkM2tMB/wDNTnRpyfRu1oYsVTi4Mobq0He1rGJ0UbTJXUsqD
 Uh5gmUv8iYI6dwI4/IbkrA==

 0001104659-06-021094.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-2074_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED
STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington,
D.C. 20549   

   FORM 10-K   

Commission
File No. 1-13906   

   Ballantyne
of Omaha, Inc.   

  (Exact Name of Registrant
as Specified in Its Charter)  

Registrant s telephone
number, including area code:   (402) 453-4444    

  Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of each class  

Name
  of exchange on which registered   

Common Stock, $0.01 par value   

American Stock Exchange   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of
the Act:   None    

  Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.   Yes   o     No   x  

  Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports filed pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act.   Yes   o     No
  x  

  Indicate by check mark
whether registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.Yes   x     No   o  

  Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.     x  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check One):  

Large accelerated filer     o  

Accelerated
  filer     o  

Non-accelerated
  filer     x  

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Act)   Yes   o     No   x  

  The aggregate market value
of the Company s voting common stock held by non-affiliates, based upon the
closing price of the stock on the American Stock Exchange on June 30, 2005
was approximately $51.8 million.  

  As of March 2, 2006,
13,472,031 shares of common stock of Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc., were
outstanding.  

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   

  Portions of the Company s
Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 24,
2006 (the  Proxy Statement ) are incorporated by reference in Part III,
Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.  

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

   PART I.   

Page No.   

Item 1.   

Business   

1  

Item 1A .  

Risk Factors   

10  

Item 1B .  

Unresolved Staff Comments   

14  

Item 2.   

Properties   

14  

Item
  3.   

Legal Proceedings   

15  

Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

15  

PART II.   

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
  Stockholder Matters and  
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

16  

Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data   

17  

Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations            

17  

Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
  Risk   

30  

Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

31  

Item 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
  Accounting and Financial Disclosure           

61  

Item 9A.   

Controls and Procedures   

61  

Item
  9B.   

Other
  Information   

61  

PART III.   

Item 10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

61  

Item 11.   

Executive Compensation   

61  

Item 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
  Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

61  

Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   

61  

Item 14.   

Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

62  

PART IV.   

Item 15.   

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

62  

Signatures   

63  

FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS   

  Certain statements made in
this report on Form 10-K are  forward-looking  in nature, as defined
in the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which involve uncertainties,
including but not limited to, quarterly fluctuations in results; customer
demand for the Company s products; the development of new technology for
alternate means of motion picture presentation; domestic and international
economic conditions; the achievement of lower costs and expenses; the continued
availability of financing in the amounts and on the terms required to support
the Company s future business; credit concerns in the theatre exhibition
industry; and other risks detailed from time to time in the Company s other
Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Actual results may differ
materially from management s expectations.  

     PART I   

      Item 1. Business    

    Segments    

  Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc., a Delaware
Corporation, and its subsidiaries (Ballantyne or the  Company ) designs,
develops, manufactures and distributes commercial motion picture equipment,
lighting systems, and restaurant equipment. The Company was founded in 1932 and
primarily operates within three business segments: 1) theatre 2) lighting and
3) restaurant. Approximately 92% of fiscal year 2005 sales were from theatre
products, while 6% were lighting products and 2% were restaurant products.  

  During 2005, the Company entered the digital cinema
marketplace as a non-exclusive distributor of digital equipment through an
authorized digital cinema reseller master agreement with NEC Solutions
(America), Inc. The agreement is for an initial term of three years and
automatically renews for additional twelve month successive terms. Either party
may terminate the agreement by providing 90 days advance written notice. No
sales were made during 2005 as the widespread adoption of digital cinema has
not yet occurred. The Company expects sales to occur during the coming year.  

  The Company divested its restaurant equipment product
line during 2003, which accounted for approximately 47% of the segment. The
Company continues to supply parts to its installed equipment customer base and
distribute its marinade and breading products under the trademark Flavor
Crisp , as well as support its  Chicken-On-The-Run  and  BBQ-On-The-Run 
programs.  

  During 2003, the Company disposed of its remaining
lighting rental operations so as to focus on its core lighting product lines.  

  The Company discontinued
its audiovisual segment on December 31, 2002 and has restated the
consolidated financial statements for all comparative years presented for these
discontinued operations.  

     Theatre   

  The Company s theatre business was founded in 1932. The
Company s products are distributed on a worldwide basis through a network of over
100 domestic and international dealers and also by a small direct sales force. The
Company s broad range of both standard and custom-made equipment along with
other ancillary equipment can completely outfit and automate a motion picture
projection booth and is currently being used by major motion picture exhibitors
such as AMC Entertainment, Inc. and Regal Cinemas, Inc.  

  The Company believes that its position as a fully
integrated equipment manufacturer enables it to be more responsive to its
customers  specific design requirements. In addition, the Company believes its
installed base of equipment and customer relationships along with expertise in
engineering, manufacturing, prompt order fulfillment, delivery, after-sale
technical support and emergency service have allowed the Company to build and
maintain those relationships.  

1     

The Company also manufactures customized motion
picture projection equipment for use in special venues, such as large screen
format presentations and other forms of motion picture-based entertainment
requiring visual and multimedia special effects. The Company helped pioneer the
special venue market more than 20 years ago by working with its customers to
design and build customized projection systems.  

  Ballantyne has also
entered the digital cinema marketplace as a non-exclusive distributor of
digital equipment through a reseller agreement with NEC Solutions (America), Inc.
The Company is currently evaluating its business plan about how further to
position itself in this developing marketplace.  

     Lighting   

  The Company, under the
trademark Strong , is a supplier of long-range follow spotlights which are used
for both permanent and touring applications. The Company, under the trademark
Xenotech , is a supplier of high intensity searchlights and computer-based
lighting systems for the motion picture production, television, live
entertainment, theme park and architectural industries. The Company also sells
high intensity searchlights under the trademark Sky-Tracker .  

     Restaurant   

  The Company supplies parts
to its installed equipment customer base and distributes its marinade and
breading products under the trademark Flavor Crisp  through its  Chicken-On-The-Run 
and  BBQ-On-The-Run  programs.  

    Theatre Exhibition Industry Overview    

  The domestic theatre exhibition industry (including
Canada) is highly concentrated with management estimating that the top ten
exhibitors represent over 56% of the total industry. Based on information
obtained from the National Association of Theatre Owners, there were approximately
36,000 screens in the United States.  

  The Company s ability to
grow theatre revenues is dependent on the growth of construction of new
theatres and the renovation of existing theatres. Growth in the number of new
motion picture screens may be adversely affected by the economy as a whole or
recent trends towards industry consolidation. Both of these factors could have
an adverse effect on Ballantyne s customer base. Ballantyne also deals with a
concentration of sales and credit risk stemming from sales to the Company s top
10 theatre customers representing approximately 53% of fiscal 2005 theatre
sales. Accounts receivable from these same customers represented 60% of
consolidated accounts receivable from all customers. In addition, sales to AMC
Theatres, Inc. represented approximately 11% of theatre sales, while
receivables from Vari International represented 16% of net consolidated
receivables at December 31, 2005. The Company also sold approximately 29%
of its theatre products to foreign countries during 2005 and these sales are
subject to volatile worldwide economic and political conditions. Certain areas
of the world are more cost conscious than the U.S. market and there are
instances where Ballantyne s products are priced higher than local manufacturers
making it more difficult to generate sufficient profit to justify selling into
certain regions of the world. Additionally, foreign exchange rates and excise
taxes sometimes make it difficult to market the Company s products overseas at
reasonable selling prices. The Company may also be impacted positively or
negatively by advancing technologies such as digital cinema which could make
the Company s existing products obsolete or could potentially create new opportunities
for Ballantyne. The Company is in the process of evaluating digital
opportunities and how to respond to the opportunities and challenges. However,
if the Company is unable to take advantage of these opportunities, the results
could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, financial
condition and operating results.  

2     

Business Strategy    

  The Company s strategy combines the following key
elements:  

    Increase
Theatre Exhibition Market Share.          The
past problems experienced by the theatre exhibition industry coupled with
increased competitiveness for the sale of theatre products has placed
additional pressure on the Company s share of the market. The Company is
currently implementing certain initiatives to garner more market share. These
initiatives include, but are not limited to, growing ancillary or accessory
sales, and leveraging the Company s brand name recognition to develop business
with exhibitors in the U.S. and worldwide currently using Ballantyne s
products. 

    Expand
Digital Opportunities.          The
theatre exhibition industry remains based on the use of film technology to
deliver motion picture images to the public, despite the anticipated shift to
digital images (digital cinema). The widespread adoption and use of digital
cinema foreseen by many has not yet occurred, with a worldwide market
penetration of approximately 600 screens out of about 120,000 (about 200 out of
approximately 36,000 screens in North America) converted to digital cinema. Factors
limiting implementation include, but are not limited to: high digital system
costs; product availability for digital cinema; security, control and
implementation issues, and a lack of standards for system quality and
interoperability. 

  Though digital cinema offers significant potential
savings via reduced film delivery and handling costs to movie distributors, the
financial models to justify the expenditures potentially required by the
exhibitor have been limited. Digital Cinema Initiatives (DCI) publication of  Digital
Cinema System Specifications  made significant progress in resolving standards
and technology issues. Additionally, limited rollouts and announcements of
other deployments have brought renewed interest in this technology change.  

  Despite the apparent head start of companies now
involved in digital cinema, the Company believes it is in a solid position to
be a successful participant in this marketplace due to its marketing and sales
agreement with NEC, its long term industry relationships, the industry s
familiarity with the Company and its large installed base worldwide. However,
no assurance can be given that Ballantyne will in fact be a part of the digital
cinema marketplace. If Ballantyne is unable to take advantage of future digital
cinema opportunities or respond to the new competitive pressures, the result
could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, financial
condition and operating results. In addition, the current relationship with NEC
Solutions (America), Inc. is a non-exclusive distributorship agreement and
as such gross margin percentages will typically be lower than the margin the
Company currently experiences on its analog projectors. It is unclear how this
lower margin will affect the overall profitability of the Company in the future.  

    Focus
on Growth Strategy and Diversification.      The
Company s strategy is to pursue complementary strategic acquisitions both
within its current operating segments and also in other markets that would fit
in the Company s business plans. Ballantyne expects to make acquisitions in the
future. However, Ballantyne cannot assure that it will be able to locate
appropriate acquisitions in the future, that any identified candidates will be
acquired or that acquired operations will be effectively integrated or prove
profitable. 

    Expand
International Presence.          Sales
outside the United States (mainly theatre sales) were $15.8 million in 2005 or
29% of consolidated revenues compared to $15.0 million or 31% in 2004. While
sales internationally were higher, they dropped as a percent of total sales
primarily due to higher demand domestically. Sales for 2004 also included a
special venue project in China for approximately $2.1 million. The Company
believes that international sales will continue to account for a significant
portion of its theatre sales. 

  The Company is seeking to strengthen and develop its
international presence through an international dealer network and the Company s
sales force will continue to travel worldwide to market the Company s products.
Additionally, the Company continues to utilize its office in Hong Kong to
further penetrate   

3     

China and surrounding
markets. The Company believes that as a result of these efforts, it is
positioned to further expand its brand name recognition and international
market share. As a result, however, the Company could be adversely affected by
such factors as changes in foreign currency rates and changing economic and
political conditions in each of the countries in which the Company sells its
products.  

    Improve
Business Processes and Productivity.          The Company has been implementing lean manufacturing
at its Omaha facility and over the last 18 months the Company has conducted
numerous lean manufacturing projects. Production of critical product lines is
being converted from batch manufacturing processing to production lines
improving flow through the plant, and therefore, productivity. The Company will
also continue to reduce costs through a cost and inventory reduction program
designed to bring costs and inventory in line with revenues. 

    Expand Lighting Segment.      Despite
the lighting divestitures that the Company undertook in recent years,  the Company s goal is to increase revenues
using the remaining product lines within the segment and by increased emphasis
on expanding its product offerings by developing and introducing new products
and through marketing relationships with European manufacturers to market their
products in the U.S. Late in 2004 the Company designed and introduced an
HMI-based lighting product called the Radiance  spotlight. The Company is also
marketing an Italian-manufactured spotlight called the Canto spotlight. Both
spotlights were introduced in response to a marketplace demanding less
expensive, smaller and more user-friendly products. The Company is also
adjusting how it markets its products to increase market shares by using more
independent representatives as opposed to independent distributors. Management
believes that independent representatives have more incentives to market
Ballantyne products than do the distributors who may also be marketing
competitor s products. 

    Products    

     Theatre Products   

   Motion Picture
Projection Equipment   

  The Company is a developer, manufacturer and
distributor of commercial motion picture projection equipment worldwide. The
Company s commercial motion picture projection equipment can fully outfit and
automate a motion picture projection booth and consists of 35mm and 70mm motion
picture projectors, xenon lamphouses and power supplies, a console system
combining a lamphouse and power supply into a single cabinet, soundhead
reproducers and related products such as film handling equipment and sound
systems. The Company s commercial motion picture projection equipment is
marketed under the industry-wide recognized trademarks of Strong    , Simplex   , Century    and
Ballantyne   . During
2004, the Company introduced the next generation film projector called the
Apogee   . The Company
believes that this redesigned projector is more marketable due to its being
more user-friendly and improved performance. The Company manufactures the
majority of the motion picture projection systems in-house, except for the
audio rack components, lamps and lenses. This equipment may be sold
individually or as an integrated system with other components manufactured by
the Company. 

  The Company also manufactures
film handling equipment consisting of a three-deck or five-deck platter and a
make-up table, which allows the reels of a full-length motion picture to be
spliced together, thereby eliminating the need for an operator to change reels
during the showing of the motion picture. The majority of the Company s film
transport systems are sold under the Strong     name, although the Company sells systems on an
OEM basis. 

   Lenses   

  The Company distributes
ISCO-Optic film projection lenses through an exclusive distribution agreement
with ISCO Precision Optics. The Company has the exclusive right to distribute
these lenses in   

4     

North
America through October 31, 2007, as well as the non-exclusive right to
distribute these lenses throughout the rest of the world. ISCO lenses have
developed a reputation for delivering high-image quality and resolution over
the entire motion picture screen and have won two Academy Awards for technical
achievement.  

   Xenon Lamps   

  The Company distributes
xenon lamps for resale to the theatre and lighting industries through an
exclusive distributorship agreement with Lighting Technologies, Inc.  

   Replacement Parts   

  The Company has a
significant installed base of over 50,000 motion picture projection systems.
Although these products have an average useful life in excess of 20 years,
periodic replacement of components is required as a matter of routine
maintenance, in most cases with parts manufactured by the Company.  

   Special Venue
Products   

  The Company manufactures
4, 5 and 8 perforation 35mm and 70mm projection systems for large-screen,
simulation ride and planetarium applications and for other venues that require
special equipment. The Company s status as a fully integrated manufacturer
enables it to work closely with its customers from initial concept and design
through manufacturing to the customers  specifications.  

   Digital Equipment   

  Through a master reseller
agreement with NEC Solutions (America), Inc., the Company distributes IS8,
IS15 and IS25 digital projectors.  

     Lighting Products   

   Followspots   

  The Company has been a developer, manufacturer and
distributor of long-range followspots since 1950. Ballantyne s followspots are
primarily marketed under the Strong     trademark and recognized trademarked models
such as Super Trouper    and Gladiator   . The Super Trouper    followspot has been the industry standard
since 1958. The Company s long-range followspots are high-intensity general use
illumination products designed for both permanent installations, such as indoor
arenas, theatres, auditoriums, theme parks, amphitheatres and stadiums, and
touring applications. The Company s 
followspots line consist of six basic models ranging in output from 1000
watts to 4,500 watts. The 1000-watt model, which has a range of 20 to 75
feet, is compact, portable and appropriate for small venues and truss mounting.
The 4,500-watt model, which has a range of 300 to 600 feet, is a
high-intensity xenon light followspot appropriate for large theatres, arenas
and stadiums. Most of the Company s followspots employ a variable focal length
lens system which increases the intensity of the light beam as it is narrowed
from flood to spot. 

  In response to a section of the marketplace demanding
less expensive, smaller and more user-friendly products, the Company has
introduced certain new spotlights over the last three years. During 2003, the
Company began distributing an Italian manufactured followspot called the Canto.
The Canto spotlight product line consists of six basic models ranging in output
from 250 watts to 2,000 watts. During 2004-2005, the Company designed a
new followspot called the Radiance . The Radiance  is a mid-range followspot
powered by an 850 watt metal halide lamp.  

5     

The Company sells its
followspots through dealers and in some rare cases to end users such as arenas,
stadiums, theme parks, theatres, auditoriums and equipment rental companies.
These followspot products are used in over 100 major arenas throughout the
world.  

   Promotional and
Other Lighting Products   

  The Company is a supplier of high intensity
promotional searchlights and lighting systems for the motion picture production,
television, live entertainment, theme park and architectural markets. The
Company s production lighting systems are marketed under the Strong Britelight 
trademarks, while the high intensity promotional searchlights are marketed
under the Sky-Tracker     trademark. 

  Britelight  specialty illumination products have been
used in numerous feature films and have also been used at live performances
such as Super Bowl half-time shows, the opening and closing ceremonies of the
2002 Winter Olympics and are currently illuminating such venues as the Luxor
Hotel and Casino and the Stratosphere Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada.
These products are marketed directly to customers throughout the world.  

  The Company s high
intensity promotional searchlights come in single or multiple head
configurations, primarily for use at outside venues requiring extremely bright
lighting that can compete with other forms of outdoor illumination. These high
intensity promotional searchlights are marketed through the Company s
Sky-Tracker division under the Sky-Tracker     trademark. Sky-Tracker products have been used
at Walt Disney World, Universal Studios, various Olympic games and grand
openings. The Company s promotional lighting products are primarily marketed
directly to customers throughout the world by a direct sales force and a
commissioned representative. 

     Restaurant Products   

  The Company distributes
seasonings, marinades and barbeque sauces manufactured to the Company s
specifications by various food product contractors and supplies parts to its
equipment customer base.  

    Sales, Marketing and Customer Service    

  The Company markets and sells its product primarily
through a network of over 100 domestic and international dealers to major
theatre exhibitors, sports arenas, amusement park operators and
convenience/fast food stores. The Company also sells directly to end-users. The
sales effort is supplemented by a small internal sales force. The Company
services its customers in large part through the dealer network; however, the
Company does have technical support personnel to provide necessary assistance
to the end user or to assist the dealer network. Sales and marketing professionals
principally develop business by maintaining regular personal customer contact
including conducting site visits, while customer service and technical support
functions are primarily centralized and dispatched when needed. In addition,
the Company markets its products in trade publications such as   Film      Journal   and   Box      Office   and by
participating in annual industry trade shows such as ShoWest, ShowEast,
CineAsia in Asia and Cinema Expo in Europe, among others. The Company s sales
and marketing professionals have extensive experience with the Company s
product lines and have long-term relationships with many current and potential
customers.  

  Due to substantial
consolidations within the theatre exhibition industry, many of the exhibitors
now have internal technicians to service their theatre equipment and the need
for the dealer network in the supply chain is lessening. A number of the larger
exhibitors have already insisted on bypassing the dealer network. The Company
believes this trend will continue in the future and will change how the Company
markets its product to the industry. Ballantyne believes this shift in the
supply chain benefits the Company in reducing credit exposure, as the
exhibitors are generally larger entities with more access to capital.  

6     

Backlog   

  At December 31, 2005
and 2004, the Company had backlogs of $6.0 million and $6.4 million,
respectively. Such backlogs mainly consisted of orders received with a definite
shipping date within twelve months; however, these orders are subject to cancellation.
The Company s products are manufactured and shipped within a few weeks
following receipt of orders. The dollar amount of the Company s order backlog
is therefore not considered by management to be a leading indicator of the
Company s expected sales in any particular fiscal period.  

    Manufacturing    

  The Company s manufacturing operations are conducted
in Omaha, Nebraska and Fisher, Illinois. Both facilities encompass design,
fabrication, assembly and shipping of the Company s various product lines. These
central locations reduce the Company s transportation costs and delivery times
of products throughout the United States. The Company s manufacturing strategy
is to minimize costs through manufacturing efficiencies. Efficiencies have been
gained by implementing certain lean manufacturing strategies. Production cycle
times have reduced resulting in increased productivity and on-time deliveries. Improvements
in material and product flow have resulted in a reduction of inventory,
improved space utilization and workplace organization. Additional lean
initiatives include setup and changeover reduction, which facilitates shorter
production runs, and total productive maintenance, which increases equipment
utilization by reducing production downtime.  

  The Company currently manufactures the majority of
components used in its products. The Company believes that its integrated
manufacturing operations help maintain the high quality of its products,
further aid lead time reductions and its ability to customize products to a
customer s specifications. The Company s flexible workforce allows for the
adjusting of the relative mix of products to meet demand. Manufacturing is
mainly comprised of machining aluminum in casting and bar stock forms. Fabrication
includes the punching, forming and welding of light gauge materials such as
steel and aluminum. The Company also operates powder paint lines at both
facilities. Outside contractors are utilized for further specialized processing
such as plating, grinding, etc.  

  The Company utilizes a
single source for each of its intermittent movement components, reflectors,
lenses and xenon lamps. Although the Company has not to-date experienced
significant difficulty in obtaining these components, no assurance can be given
that shortage will not arise in the future. The loss of any one or more of such
suppliers could have a short-term adverse effect on the Company until
alternative sources of supply could be secured. The Company is not dependent
upon any one supplier for the balance of its raw materials and components. As
part of its ongoing efforts, the Company continues to rationalize its vendor
base and gain associated volume discounts.  

    Quality Control    

  The Company believes that
its design standards, quality control procedures and the quality standards for
the material and components used in its products have contributed significantly
to the reputation of its products for high performance and reliability. Inspection
of incoming material and components as well as the testing of all of the Company s
products during various stages of assembly are key elements of this program.  

    Warranty Policy    

  The Company generally
provides a warranty to end users for substantially all of its products, which
normally covers a period of 12 months, but is extended under certain
circumstances and for certain products. Under the Company s warranty policy,
the Company will repair or replace defective products or   

7     

components
at its election. Costs of warranty service and product replacements were
approximately $343,000, $561,000 and $288,000 for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

    Research and Development    

  The Company s ability to
compete successfully depends, in part, upon its continued close work with
existing and new customers. The Company focuses research and development
efforts on the development of new products based on customer and industry
requirements. Research and development costs charged to operations amounted to
approximately $455,000, $328,000 and $590,000 for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

    Competition    

  Although the Company has a leading position in the
domestic motion picture projection equipment market, the domestic and
international markets for commercial motion picture projection equipment are
highly competitive. Major competitors for the Company s motion picture film
projection equipment include Christie Digital Systems, Cinemeccanica SpA and
Kinoton GmbH. The Company competes in the commercial motion picture projection
equipment industry primarily on the basis of quality, fulfillment and delivery,
price, after-sale technical support and product customization capabilities.
Certain of the Company s competitors for its motion picture projection
equipment have significantly greater resources.  

  In addition to existing motion picture equipment
manufacturers, the Company is encountering competition from new competitors, as
well as from the development of new technology for alternative means of motion
picture presentation. The Company cannot assure that its equipment will not
eventually become obsolete as technology advances. Competition in the digital
cinema market includes two other licensed OEM s of the preferred Texas
Instruments  DLP Cinema technology besides the Company s partner, NEC Solutions
(America), Inc.: Christie Digital Systems and Barco NV. There are also
other companies using different digital technologies attempting to enter the
marketplace. For a further discussion of potential new competition, see the  Business
Strategy  section of this report under the caption  Expand Digital
Opportunities .  

  The markets for the Company s lighting products are
also highly competitive. The Company competes in the lighting industry
primarily on the basis of quality, price, branding and product line variety. Certain
of the Company s competitors for its lighting products have significantly
greater resources than the Company.  

    Patents and Trademarks     

  The Company owns or
otherwise has rights to numerous trademarks and trade names used in conjunction
with the sale of its products.  The
Company currently owns one patent with another patent pending. The Company
believes its success will not be dependent upon patent or trademark protection,
but rather upon its scientific and engineering  know-how  and research and
production techniques.  

    Employees    

  As of March 2, 2006,
the Company had a total of 197 employees. Of these employees, 152 were
considered manufacturing, 4 were executive and 41 were considered sales and
administrative. The Company is not a party to any collective bargaining
agreement and believes that its relationship with its employees is good.  

8  

Environmental Matters    

  The Company is subject to
various federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to
environmental protection and the discharge of material into the environment. During
2001, Ballantyne was informed by a neighboring company of likely contaminated
soil on certain parcels of land adjacent to Ballantyne s main manufacturing
facility in Omaha, Nebraska. The Environmental Protection Agency and the
Nebraska Health and Human Services System subsequently determined that certain
parcels of Ballantyne property had various levels of contaminated soil relating
to a former pesticide company which previously owned the property and that
burned down in the 1960 s. During October 2004, Ballantyne agreed to enter
into an Administrative Order on Consent ( AOC ) to resolve the matter. The AOC
holds Ballantyne and two other parties jointly and severally responsible for
the cleanup. In this regard, the three parties have also entered into a Site
Allocation Agreement by which they will divide past, current and future costs
of the EPA, the costs of remediation and the cost of long term maintenance. In
connection with the AOC, the Company has paid its share of the costs. At December 31,
2005, the Company has provided for management s estimate of any future payments
relating to this matter which is not material to the consolidated financial
statements.  

    Stockholder Rights Plan    

  On May 26, 2000, the
Board of Directors of the Company adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan. Under
terms of the Rights Plan, which expires June 9, 2010, the Company declared
a distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock. The
rights become exercisable only if a person or group (other than certain exempt
persons as defined) acquires 15 percent or more of Ballantyne common stock or
announces a tender offer for 15 percent or more of Ballantyne s common stock. Under
certain circumstances, the Rights Plan allows stockholders, other than the
acquiring person or group, to purchase the Company s common stock at an
exercise price of half the market price.  

    Executive Officers of the Company    

  John P. Wilmers, age 61, has been CEO of the Company
since March 1997 and a Director since 1995. Mr. Wilmers joined the
Company in 1981 and has served in various positions in the Company including
Executive Vice President of Sales from 1992 to 1997. Mr. Wilmers is a past
President of the Theatre Equipment Association, a member of the Nebraska
Variety Club and a sustaining member of the Society of Motion Picture and
Television Engineers. Mr. Wilmers attended the University of Minnesota at
Duluth.  

  Dan Faltin, age 49, has been Executive Vice-President
since June 1, 2003. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Faltin was
President of Chief Automotive Systems, Inc., a Nebraska-based manufacturer
and marketer of collision repair equipment. Before assuming responsibilities as
President, he served for five years as Vice President of Sales and Marketing of
Chief. Mr. Faltin earned a B.A. from the University of Nebraska at Lincoln
and an M.B.A. from the University of Nebraska at Kearney.  

  Brad J. French, age 53, joined the Company as the
Controller in 1990 and was named Secretary and Treasurer in 1992. Mr. French
was named Chief Financial Officer of the Company in January 1996. During
2000 and through May 31, 2003, Mr. French was also the Company s
Chief Operating Officer.   Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. French held several accounting positions with
UTBHL, Inc. (f/k/a Hanovia Lamp, Inc.), a subsidiary of Canrad, Inc.
and Purolator Products, Inc. Mr. French earned a B.S. from Union
College.  

  Ray F. Boegner, age 56,
has been Senior Vice President since 1997. Mr. Boegner joined the Company
in 1985 and has acted in various sales roles. Prior to joining the Company, he
served as Vice President of Marketing at Cinema Film Systems. Mr. Boegner
earned a B.A. from Citrus College and a B.S. from the University of Southern
California.  

9     

1A. Risk Factors    

  You should carefully
consider the following risk factors and other information contained in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in shares of Ballantyne s
common stock. Investing in Ballantyne s common stock involves a high degree of
risk. If any of the following risk factors actually occurs, Ballantyne s
business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and
adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of Ballantyne s common
stock could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment.  

    Ballantyne may be unsuccessful in adapting to new or
advancing technologies, such as digital cinema.    

  The motion picture industry remains based on the use
of film technology to deliver motion picture images to the public, despite the
anticipated shift to digital images (digital cinema). The widespread adoption
and use of digital cinema foreseen by many has still not occurred, with a
worldwide market penetration of only approximately 600 digital systems
currently installed. In addition to the companies who have installed these
systems, there are several other companies using various types of digital
technology actively involved in attempting to bring a complete digital solution
to the market.  

  Ballantyne believes it is
in a position to participate in the digital cinema marketplace either through
its relationship with NEC Solutions (America), Inc. or through other
relationships with digital cinema providers. However, Ballantyne cannot assure
that it will successfully or competitively advance its technology as might be
required. In addition, the current relationship with NEC Solutions (America), Inc.
is a non-exclusive distributorship agreement and as such gross margin
percentages will typically be lower than the margin the Company currently
experiences on its analog projectors. It is unclear at this time how this lower
margin will affect the overall profitability of the Company in future years. Finally,
Ballantyne s agreement with NEC is not perpetual and could be terminated with
90 day advance written notice. If Ballantyne is unable to maintain its
relationship with NEC, or otherwise take advantage of future digital cinema
opportunities or respond to the new competitive pressures, the result could
have a material adverse impact on Ballantyne s business, financial condition
and operating results.  

    Ballantyne s financial results and growth depend
largely on the health of the theatre exhibition industry.    

  During the year ended December 31, 2005,
approximately 92% of Ballantyne s revenues resulted from sales to the theatre
exhibition industry. From fiscal years 2000 to 2002, this industry experienced
an unprecedented three-year decline as overly aggressive building of megaplexes
led to increased competition, significant declines in revenues per screen and,
eventually, to a lack of operating capital by exhibition companies. Several
exhibition companies filed for federal bankruptcy protection. This resulted in
Ballantyne s revenues from continuing operations declining from
$83.4 million in fiscal 1999 to $33.8 million in fiscal 2002.
However, during 2003, industry conditions began to improve and sales to the
industry increased. While the health of the theatre exhibition industry is
improving, there are still risks in the industry which result in continued
exposure to Ballantyne. This exposure is in the form of receivables from independent
dealers who resell Ballantyne s products and Ballantyne s dependence on new
theatre construction and screen growth.  

  In many instances, Ballantyne sells theatre products
through independent dealers who resell to the exhibitor. These dealers were negatively
impacted by the past downturn in the industry and, while the exhibitors have
recovered, the dealer network s recovery has been slower.  

  Because Ballantyne s
commercial motion picture projectors have an estimated useful life of
approximately 20 years, Ballantyne s net sales and profitability are
primarily dependent upon growth in the number of motion picture screens and the
renovation and replacement of commercial motion picture projection equipment in
existing theatres. For the fiscal years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003,
approximately 92%, 92% and 87%, respectively, of Ballantyne s total net sales
were derived from sales of its theatre   

10     

segment.
Growth in the number of new motion picture screens may be adversely affected by
the economy as a whole and recent trends toward industry consolidation. Both of
these factors may also have an adverse effect on Ballantyne s customer base. A
lack of motion picture screen growth would have a material adverse effect on
Ballantyne s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

    Ballantyne is substantially dependent upon significant
customers who could cease purchasing its products at any time.    

  The Company s top ten
customers accounted for approximately 48% of 2005 consolidated net revenues. The
top ten customers were primarily from the theatre segment. Trade accounts
receivable from these customers represented approximately 60% of net
consolidated receivables at December 31, 2005. Sales to AMC Theatres, Inc.
represented approximately 10% of consolidated sales. Additionally, receivables
from Vari International represented 16% of net consolidated receivables at December 31,
2005. While the Company believes its relationships with such customers are
stable, most arrangements are made by purchase order and are terminable at will
by either party. A significant decrease or interruption in business from the
Company s significant customers could have a material adverse effect on the
Company s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company
could also be adversely affected by such factors as changes in foreign currency
rates and weak economic and political conditions in each of the countries in
which the Company sells its products.  

    Ballantyne s business is subject to the economic and
political risks of selling products in foreign countries.    

  Sales outside the United
States (mainly theatre sales) continue to be significant, accounting for 29% of
consolidated sales in fiscal 2005 compared to 31% in fiscal 2004. Ballantyne is
seeking to expand its share of foreign sales, which it expects will continue to
account for a significant portion of its revenues. Foreign sales are subject to
political and economic risks, including political instability, currency
controls, fluctuating exchange rates with respect to sales not denominated in
U.S. dollars, changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates.
To date, all of Ballantyne s foreign sales have been denominated in U.S.
dollars, exclusive of sales resulting from its subsidiary in Hong Kong
($3.0 million in fiscal 2005), which are denominated in Hong Kong dollars.
A weakening in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar
could have a material adverse impact on Ballantyne by increasing the effective
price of Ballantyne s products in international markets. In addition, there can
be no assurance that Ballantyne s international customers will continue to
accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars. To the extent that orders are
denominated in foreign currencies, Ballantyne s reported sales and earnings are
more directly subject to foreign exchange fluctuations. Certain areas of the
world are also more cost conscious than the U.S. market and there are instances
where Ballantyne s products are priced higher than local manufacturers.
Ballantyne cannot assure that these factors will not adversely affect its
foreign sales in the future.  

    The market for Ballantyne s products is highly
competitive and if Ballantyne fails to invest in product development and
productivity improvements, its business could be materially adversely impacted.    

  The domestic and
international markets for Ballantyne s product lines are highly competitive.
Certain of Ballantyne s competitors for its equipment have significantly
greater resources. In the theatre segment, Ballantyne is experiencing new
competition in the film motion picture industry as well as from the development
of new technology for alternative means of motion picture presentation.
Ballantyne cannot assure that its equipment will not become obsolete as
technology advances. If Ballantyne loses market share due to these issues,
Ballantyne may be unable to lower its cost structure quickly enough to offset
the lost revenue. To counter these risks, Ballantyne has initiated a cost
reduction program, continues to streamline its manufacturing processes and is
formulating a strategy to respond to the digital marketplace. Ballantyne also
is focusing on a growth and diversification strategy to find alternative
product lines to   

11     

become
less dependent on the theatre exhibition industry. However, Ballantyne cannot
assure that this strategy will succeed or that it will be able to obtain
adequate financing to take advantage of potential opportunities.  

    If Ballantyne fails to retain key members of
management, its business may be materially harmed.    

  Ballantyne s success
depends, in substantial part, on the efforts and abilities of its current
management team. Many of these individuals have acquired specialized knowledge
and skills with respect to Ballantyne and its operations. If certain of these
individuals were to leave unexpectedly, Ballantyne could face difficulty in
hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while
any successor obtains the necessary training and experience.  

    Growth through acquisition is a part of Ballantyne s
business plan and it may not be able to successfully identify, finance or
integrate acquisitions.    

  As discussed in further
detail in the  Business Strategy  portion of Item 1, Ballantyne s strategy is
to pursue complementary strategic acquisitions both within the theatre and
lighting segments and also in other markets that would fit in Ballantyne s
business plans. Ballantyne expects to make acquisitions in the future. However,
Ballantyne cannot assure that it will be able to locate appropriate acquisition
candidates, that any identified candidates will be acquired or that acquired
operations will be effectively integrated or prove profitable. Additionally,
Ballantyne s credit facility with First National Bank of Omaha currently
prohibits Ballantyne from making acquisitions over $7 million without the
bank s consent.  

    Interruptions of, or higher prices of components from,
certain suppliers may affect Ballantyne s results of operations and financial
performance.    

  Ballantyne utilizes a single contract manufacturer for
each of its intermittent movement components, lenses and xenon lamps. Although
Ballantyne has not, to date, experienced a significant difficulty in obtaining
these components, it cannot assure that shortages will not arise in the future.
The loss of any one or more of the contract manufacturers could have a
short-term adverse effect on Ballantyne until alternative manufacturing
arrangements are secured. Ballantyne is not dependent upon any one contract
manufacturer or supplier for the balance of its raw materials and components.
Ballantyne believes that there are adequate alternative sources of such raw
materials and components of sufficient quantity and quality, but cannot assure
that this will continue to be the case.  

  In addition, volatility in
the price for certain raw materials and components such as steel, fuel and
lenses could adversely affect Ballantyne s financial results. In particular,
the strengthening of the Euro has resulted in increased costs for lens
purchases from our German supplier. Based on forecasted purchases during 2005,
an average 10% devaluation of the dollar compared to the Euro would cost
Ballantyne approximately $0.2 million.  

    Ballantyne s stock price is vulnerable to significant
fluctuations.    

  The trading price of
Ballantyne s common stock has been highly volatile in the past and could be
subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly
operating results, general conditions in the industries in which Ballantyne
operates and other factors. In addition, the stock market is subject to price
and volume fluctuations affecting the market price for the stock of many
companies generally, which fluctuations often are unrelated to operating
performance.  

12     

Pending litigation could have a material adverse
effect on Ballantyne s financial position, cash flows and results of
Operations.    

  Ballantyne is currently a defendant in an asbestos
case entitled   Bercu      v. BICC
Cables Corporation, et al.,   filed June 27, 2003     in the Supreme Court of the State of New York. There are
numerous defendants including Ballantyne. The case is set for trial to commence
on May 1, 2006. Ballantyne believes that it has strong defenses and
intends to seek a pre-trial summary judgment in its favor. Even so, it is not
possible to predict the outcome of either the summary judgment request or the
trial. Likewise, it is difficult to predict the amount of damages, if any, that
a jury might award and the plaintiffs have made no monetary demand upon
Ballantyne. It is possible that an adverse resolution of this case could have a
material adverse effect on Ballantyne s financial position.  

  Ballantyne is also a party
to various other legal actions which are ordinary routine matters incidental to
the Company s business. While management believes that the ultimate outcome of
the matters individually and in the aggregate will not have a material impact
on the financial position of the Company, no assurance can be given that an
adverse opinion on any of the cases would not, in fact, materially impact the
Company s financial position, cash flows and results of operations.  

    Certain anti-takeover provisions in Ballantyne s
governing documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire
Ballantyne.    

  The Board of Directors has adopted a Stockholder
Rights Plan. Under the terms of the rights plan, which expires June 9,
2010, Ballantyne declared a distribution of one right for each outstanding
share of common stock. The rights become exercisable only if a person or group
(other than certain exempt persons), acquires 15% or more of Ballantyne s
common stock or announces a tender offer for 15% or more of Ballantyne s common
stock. Under certain circumstances, the rights plan allows stockholders, other
than the acquiring person or group, to purchase Ballantyne s common stock at a
price that is one-half the market price.  

  Ballantyne s Certificate
of Incorporation also provides for, among other things, the issuance of
1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. The Board
of Directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to cause Ballantyne
to issue preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the voting powers and
the designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
rights and restrictions of the preferred stock. Accordingly, Ballantyne may
issue a series of preferred stock in the future that will have preference over
the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and upon Ballantyne s
liquidation, dissolution or winding up or have voting or conversion rights that
could adversely affect the voting power and ownership percentages of the
holders of common stock. Ballantyne s Certificate of Incorporation also
provides for the affirmative vote of at least 66  2 /3% of all outstanding shares of capital
stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a
single class, to change certain provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation
and Bylaws. Ballantyne s Certificate of Incorporation further provides for the
division of the Board into three classes. One class of directors is elected at
each annual meeting of stockholders for three-year terms. Ballantyne s Bylaws
contain certain advance notice requirements relating to stockholder proposals
and stockholder nomination of directors. These provisions may have the effect
of making it more difficult or discouraging transactions that could give
stockholders of Ballantyne the opportunity to realize a premium over the then
prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. 

    Shares eligible for future sale could have a possible
adverse effect on the market price.    

  Future sales of common stock in the public market, or
the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market
price of the common stock or Ballantyne s ability to raise additional capital
through sales of its equity securities.  

13     

As of December 31, 2005, Ballantyne has:
i) 13,397,531 shares owned by stockholders and
ii) 2,540,018 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under
stock option plans and contracts, of which 987,078 shares are issuable
pursuant to currently outstanding options, and 150,000 shares of common
stock are reserved for issuance pursuant to Ballantyne s employee stock
purchase plan. Of the shares outstanding, subject to outstanding options and
reserved for issuance under the employee stock purchase plan,
939,828 shares are immediately eligible for resale in the public market
without restriction.  

  Ballantyne is unable to
predict the effect that the sales of these shares may have on the prevailing
market price of the common stock.  

    Ballantyne may discover deficiencies in its internal
controls as it implements new documentation and testing procedures to comply
with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.    

  Current SEC rules implementing
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2007 to include a report on
management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal controls
over financial reporting and a statement that the Company s independent
registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on
management s assessment of the Company s internal controls over financial
reporting and a report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal controls
over financial reporting. The Company has begun the process of complying with
these requirements and while the Company has not yet identified any material
weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting, there are no
assurances that the Company will not discover deficiencies in its internal
controls as it implements new documentation and testing procedures to comply
with the new Section 404 reporting requirement. If the Company discovers
deficiencies or is unable to complete the work necessary to properly evaluate
its internal controls over financial reporting, there is a risk that management
and/or the Company s independent registered public accounting firm may not be
able to conclude that the Company s internal controls over financial reporting
are effective.  

    In the event it becomes an accelerated filer,
Ballantyne may incur significant costs to comply with Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act earlier than presently required.    

  It is possible that the
Company will become an accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act and if so its compliance with Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act will need to be included into Form 10-K for fiscal
2006. The Company will not know whether it will become an accelerated filer
until June 30, 2006, which is the next date at which this status is
determined. If it becomes an accelerated filer, Ballantyne s compliance with Section 404
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be measured at the end of fiscal 2006 as opposed
to 2007. As a result, Ballantyne may need to accelerate its compliance efforts
which could, in turn, result in significantly increased compliance costs.  

      Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments    

  None.  

      Item 2. Properties    

  The Company s headquarters
and main manufacturing facility is located at 4350 McKinley Street, Omaha,
Nebraska, where it owns a building consisting of approximately 166,000 square
feet on approximately 12.0 acres. The premises are used for offices and for the
manufacture, assembly and distribution of its products, other than those for
one of its wholly owned subsidiaries, Design and Manufacturing, Inc. The
Design subsidiary is located in Fisher, Illinois on 2.0 acres with a 31,600
square foot building. The Company also leases a sales and service facility in
Hong Kong. The Company also leases a small sales office in Miami, Florida. The
Company subleases facilities in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida to Strong Audiovisual
Incorporated, the purchaser of the discontinued audiovisual segment.  

14     

Item 3. Legal Proceedings    

  On March 18, 2005 the plaintiff dismissed without
prejudice an asbestos-related lawsuit in Madison County, Illinois entitled   Julia Crow, Individually and as Special Administrator of the Estate of
Thomas Smith v. A. W. Chesterton, et al  ., including Ballantyne.  

  Ballantyne is currently a defendant in an asbestos
case entitled   Bercu      v. BICC
Cables Corporation, et al.,   filed June 27, 2003     in the Supreme Court of the State of New York. There are
numerous defendants including Ballantyne. The case is set for trial to commence
on May 1, 2006. Ballantyne believes that it has strong defenses and
intends to seek a pre-trial summary judgment in its favor. Even so, it is not
possible to predict the outcome of either the summary judgment request or the
trial. Likewise, it is difficult to predict the amount of damages, if any, that
a jury might award and the plaintiffs have made no monetary demand upon
Ballantyne. It is possible that an adverse resolution of this case could have a
material adverse effect on Ballantyne s results of operations, financial
position or cash flows.  

  Ballantyne is a party to
various other legal actions which are ordinary routine litigation matters
incidental to the Company s business, such as products liability. Based on
currently available information, management believes that the ultimate outcome
of these matters individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company s results of operations, financial position or
cash flows.  

      Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders    

  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, no issues
were submitted to a vote of stockholders.  

15  

PART I I   

      Item 5. Market
for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities    

  The
Company s common stock is listed and traded on the American Stock Exchange
under the symbol  BTN . Prior to September 24, 2004, the Company was
listed on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol  BTNE . The following table
sets forth the high and low per share sale price for the common stock as
reported by the American Stock Exchange and OTC Bulletin Board.  

The last reported per share sale price for the common
stock on March 2, 2006 was $4.06. The Company had 13,470,031 shares of
common stock outstanding on March 2, 2006, there were approximately 205
holders of record and an estimated 3,000 owners held in the name of nominees.  

  The
Company did not make any unregistered sales of common stock during the fourth
quarter of 2005.  

    Equity Compensation Plan Information    

  The following table sets forth information regarding
the Company s Stock Option Plans and Contractual Stock Option Agreements as of
December 31, 2005.  

(1)             Includes 150,000
securities for the 2005 Stock Purchase Plan and 250,000 securities for the 2005
Restricted Stock Plan. 

  (2)             Includes 300,000
securities for the 2005 Outside Directors Stock Option Plan and 852,940
securities for the 2001 Non-Employee Director s Stock Option Plan. 

16     

Dividend Policy   

  The Company intends to
retain its earnings to assist in financing its business and does not anticipate
paying cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. The
declaration and payment of dividends by the Company are also subject to the
discretion of the Board, and the Company s credit facility contains certain
prohibitions on the payment of cash dividends. Any determination by the Board
as to the payment of dividends in the future will depend upon, among other
things, business conditions and the Company s financial condition and capital
requirements, as well as any other factors deemed relevant by the Board. The
Company has not paid cash dividends during the last two years.  

      Item 6. Selected
Financial Data (1)    

(1)             All amounts in thousands
(000 s) except per share data 

  (2)             Excludes discontinued
operations 

  (3)             Includes
discontinued operations 

      Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

  The following discussion and analysis should be read
in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto
appearing elsewhere in this report. Management s discussion and analysis
contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties, including but not
limited to: quarterly fluctuations in results; customer demand for the Company s
products; the development of new technology for alternate means of motion
picture presentation; domestic and international economic conditions; the
achievement of lower costs and expenses; the continued availability of
financing in the amounts and on the terms required to support the Company s
future business; credit concerns in the theatre exhibition industry; and other
risks detailed from time to time in the Company s other Securities and Exchange
Commission filings. Actual results may differ materially from management s
expectations. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of
this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect the
Company s business and financial performance. Moreover, the Company operates in
a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge
from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such
risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on the
Company s business or the extent to which any factor,   

17     

or combination of factors,
may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any
forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors
should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction
of actual results.  

  Investors should also be
aware that while the Company does communicate with securities analysts from
time to time, it is against its policy to disclose to them any material
non-public information or other confidential information. Accordingly,
investors should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement or
report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or
report. Furthermore, the Company has a policy against issuing or confirming
financial forecast or projections issued by others. Therefore, to the extent
that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts
or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of the Company.  

     Overview   

  The Company designs, develops, manufactures and
distributes commercial motion picture equipment and lighting systems and also
distributes restaurant products. The Company business was founded in 1932.  

  The Company has three
reportable core operating segments: 
theatre, lighting and restaurant. Approximately 92% of fiscal year 2005
sales were from theatre products, 6% were lighting products and 2% were
restaurant products.  

     Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates   

     General   

  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations is based upon the consolidated financial
statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these
financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and
the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management bases
its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which
form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Senior management
has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Actual results may differ from
these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  

  An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it
requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters
that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates
that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates
that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the
consolidated financial statements.  

  The Company s accounting
policies are discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in
this report. Management believes the following critical accounting policies
reflect its more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation
of the consolidated financial statements.  

     Revenue Recognition   

  The Company normally
recognizes revenue upon shipment of goods or delivery of the service to
customers when collectibility is reasonably assured. In certain circumstances
revenue is not recognized until the goods are received by the customer or upon
installation and customer acceptance based on the terms of the sale agreement. During
2003, the Company adopted the provisions of EITF 00-21,   Revenue Arrangements With Multiple Deliverables   (EITF
00-21). EITF 00-21 addresses certain aspects of revenue recognition
on contracts with multiple deliverable elements. The adoption of EITF 00-21
required the   

18     

deferral
of all revenue on a $2.2 million project in process at December 31, 2003
until 2004, at which time approximately $2.1 million was recognized with the
remaining revenue recognized during 2005. The Company permits product returns
from customers under certain circumstances and also allows returns under the
Company s warranty policy. Allowances for product returns are estimated and
recorded at the time revenue is recognized. The return allowance is recorded as
a reduction to revenues for the estimated sales value of the projected returns
and as a reduction in cost of products for the corresponding cost amount. See
note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a full description of the
Company s revenue recognition policy.  

     Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   

  The Company makes judgments about the credit
worthiness of both current and prospective customers based on ongoing credit
evaluations performed by the Company s credit department. These evaluations
include, but are not limited to, reviewing customers  prior payment history,
analyzing credit applications, monitoring the aging of receivables from current
customers and reviewing financial statements, if applicable. The allowance for
doubtful accounts is developed based on several factors including overall
customer credit quality, historical write-off experience and a specific account
analysis that project the ultimate collectibility of the accounts. As such,
these factors may change over time causing the reserve level to adjust
accordingly. When it is determined that a customer is unlikely to pay, a charge
is recorded to bad debt expense in the consolidated statements of operations
and the allowance for doubtful accounts is increased. When it becomes certain
the customer cannot pay, the receivable is written off by removing the accounts
receivable amount and reducing the allowance for doubtful accounts accordingly.  

  At December 31, 2005,
there were approximately $8.2 million in gross outstanding accounts receivable
and $0.4 million recorded in the allowance for doubtful accounts to cover
potential future customer non-payments. At December 31, 2004, there were
approximately $6.6 million in gross outstanding accounts receivable and $0.5 million
recorded in the allowance for doubtful accounts. If economic conditions
deteriorate significantly or if one of the Company s large customers were to
declare bankruptcy, a larger allowance for doubtful accounts might be
necessary.  

     Inventory Valuation   

  Inventories are stated at
the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market and include appropriate
elements of material, labor and overhead. The Company s policy is to evaluate
all inventory quantities for amounts on-hand that are potentially in excess of
estimated usage requirements, and to write down any excess quantities to
estimated net realizable value. Inherent in the estimates of net realizable
values are management s estimates related to the Company s future manufacturing
schedules, customer demand and the development of digital technology, which
could make the Company s theatre products obsolete, among other items. Management
has managed these risks in the past and believes that it can manage them in the
future, however, operating margins may suffer if they are unable to effectively
manage these risks. At December 31, 2005 the Company had recorded gross
inventory of approximately $11.0 million and $1.1 million of inventory reserves.
This compared to $13.3 million and $1.1 million, respectively, at December 31,
2004.  

     Warranty   

  The Company s products must meet certain product
quality and performance criteria. In addition to known claims or warranty
issues, the Company estimates future claims on recent sales. The Company relies
on historical product claims data to estimate the cost of product warranties at
the time revenue is recognized. In determining the accrual for the estimated
cost of warranty claims, the Company considers experience with: 1) costs for
replacement parts; 2) costs of scrapping defective products; 3) the number of
product units subject to warranty claims and 4) other direct costs associated
with warranty claims. If the   

19     

cost to repair a product
or the number of products subject to warranty claims is greater than originally
estimated, the Company s accrued cost for warranty claims would increase.  

  At December 31, 2005,
the warranty accrual amounted to $0.7 million and amounts charged to expense
were $0.3 million. At December 31, 2004, the warranty accrual amounted to
$0.7 million and amounts charged to expense were $0.6 million.  

     Long-lived Assets   

  The Company reviews long-lived assets, exclusive of
goodwill, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of
assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount
of an asset to future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If
such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is
measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds their
fair value. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying
amount or fair value less costs to sell.  

  The Company s most
significant long-lived assets subject to these periodic assessments of
recoverability are property, plant and equipment, which have a net book value
of $5.4 million at December 31, 2005. Because the recoverability of
property, plant and equipment is based on estimates of future undiscounted cash
flows, these estimates may vary due to a number of factors, some of which may
be outside of management s control. To the extent that the Company is unable to
achieve management s forecasts of future income, it may become necessary to
record impairment losses for any excess of the net book value of property,
plant and equipment over its fair value.  

     Goodwill   

  In accordance with SFAS No. 142,
the Company evaluates its goodwill for impairment on an annual basis based on
values at the end of the fourth quarter or whenever indicators of impairment
exist. The Company has evaluated its goodwill for impairment and has determined
that the fair value of the reporting units exceeded their carrying value, so no
impairment of goodwill was recognized. Goodwill of approximately $2.5 million
is included in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2005 and
2004. Management s assumptions about future cash flows for the reporting units
require significant judgment and actual cash flows in the future may differ
significantly from those forecasted today.  

     Deferred Income Taxes   

  Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and
liability method. The Company uses an estimate of its annual effective rate at
each interim period based on the facts and circumstances known at the time, while
the actual effective rate is calculated at year-end. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax
credit carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using
enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which
those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect
on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized
in income in the period that includes the enactment date.  

  During the third quarter
of 2004, the Company reversed all valuation allowances against its deferred tax
assets as management believed that it was more likely than not that all
deferred tax assets would be realized taking into consideration all available
evidence including historical pre-tax and taxable income, projected future
pre-tax and taxable income and the expected timing of the reversals of existing
temporary differences. The reversal was recorded as an offset against income
tax expense in the amount of $1.5 million of which $1.1 million relates to
projected future pre-tax income.  

20     

Self-insurance Reserves   

  The Company is partially
self-insured for certain employee health benefits. The related liabilities are
included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The Company s
policy is to accrue the liabilities based on historical information along with
certain assumptions about future events.  

     Stock-based Compensation   

  The Company accounts for its stock option plans using
Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,   Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ,     which results in no charge to earnings
when options are issued at fair market value. SFAS No. 123  , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,   issued
subsequent to     APB Opinion No. 25     and amended by     SFAS No. 148,  
Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and      Disclosure,   defines a fair value based
method of accounting for employee stock options but allows companies to
continue to measure compensation cost for employee stock options using the
intrinsic value based method described in APB Opinion No. 25.  

  In accordance with SFAS No. 148, the Company has
been disclosing in the notes to the consolidated financial statements the
impact on net income and earnings per share had the fair value based method
been adopted. If the fair value method had been adopted, net income for 2005,
2004 and 2003 would have been $91,431, $180,322 and $79,009 lower than
reported, respectively.  

  In December 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),   Share-Based Payment.   This
statement is a revision of SFAS No. 123 and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25.
SFAS No. 123(R) requires companies to recognize in the income
statement the grant date fair value of stock options and other equity-based
compensation issued to employees, but expresses no preference for a type of
valuation model. The Statement is effective for interim periods beginning January 1,
2006. The Company expects to use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model using
similar assumptions as those currently used to determine the pro-forma
compensation expense disclosed in the footnotes to these financial statements. The
Company estimates that adoption of the statement will decrease diluted earnings
per share by approximately $0.01 to $0.02 per share for stock options and other
equity-based compensation which were previously not expensed under APB No. 25.  

     Recent Accounting Pronouncements   

  See note 2 to the consolidated financial statements
for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements including the
respective expected dates of adoption and effects on results of operations and
financial condition.  

21  

The following table sets forth, for the periods
indicated, the percentage of net revenues represented by certain items
reflected in the Company s consolidated statements of operations.  

     Results of Operations: (1)   

(1)             Excludes discontinued
audiovisual operations in years 2002 and 2001 

     Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to the Year
Ended December 31, 2004   

     Revenues   

  Net revenues in 2005
increased 9.6% to $53.9 million from $49.1 million in 2004. As
discussed in further detail below, the increase resulted primarily from higher
revenues from theatre products.  

Theatre Segment   

  Sales
of theatre products increased 10.0% from $45.1 million in 2004 to $49.7 million
in 2005. In particular, sales of projection equipment increased to $34.8 million
in 2005 from $31.9 million in 2004 resulting primarily from increased U.S.
demand as exhibitors continued building new theatres. The Company has also
experienced higher demand in Mexico and South America.  

  Sales
of xenon lamps rose 24.2% to $4.7 million from $3.7 million a year
ago primarily a result of the continuing improvement of the theatre industry in
general and increased market share.  

  Sales
of lenses also benefited from the improved industry conditions rising 33.7% to
$3.1 million from $2.3 million a year ago.  

  Sales
of theatre replacement parts decreased slightly from $7.2 million in 2004
to $7.1 million in 2005.  

  The Company s top ten theatre customers accounted for
approximately 53% of total theatre revenues compared to 48% in 2004.  

   Lighting Segment   

  Sales
of lighting products rose 18.5% to $3.4 million from $2.8 million a
year ago. The results reflect improved revenues across several product lines
including spotlights, lamps and Sky-Trackers    . Sales of followspots rose 19% to $1.5 million
compared to $1.3 million in 2004. Sales of Sky-Trackers    rose 28.7% to $0.7 million from $0.6 million
a year ago. Replacement parts improved to $0.5 million from $0.4 million
in 2004. The results can be attributed to improved industry conditions and a
change in how lighting  

22     

products are marketed and distributed domestically. The
Company is beginning to use independent representatives to market lighting
products as opposed to independent distributors under the previous business
plan. Management believes independent representatives have more incentives to
market Ballantyne products than do distributors who may also market competitors 
products.  

  Sales
of Britelight  
products decreased to approximately $0.1 million from $0.2 million a
year ago, primarily from a special sale of twelve MK5 Britelights during the
third quarter of 2004. 

  Sales of all other lighting products, including but
not limited to, xenon lamps and nocturns rose to $0.6 million from $0.3 million
in 2004, as the Company experienced stronger demand for xenon lamps.  

   Restaurant Segment   

  Restaurant sales fell to $0.8 million in 2005
from $1.2 million in 2004, a result of the Company phasing out its equipment
product line. The Company continues to supply parts to its installed customer
base and also continues to distribute its  Flavor Crisp      marinade and breading
products as well as support its  Chicken-On-The-Run  and  BBQ-On-The-Run 
programs. Sales of the discontinued equipment line amounted to approximately
$50,000 in 2005 compared to $0.3 million in 2004. Sales of replacement
parts amounted to $0.2 million in both 2005 and 2004 while coater and
marinade sales fell to $0.6 million from $0.7 million a year ago. 

     Export
Revenues   

  Sales outside the United States (mainly theatre sales)
rose to $15.8 million in 2005 from $15.0 million in 2004, entirely
related to shipments to Mexico and South America. Export sales are sensitive to
worldwide economic and political conditions that can lead to volatility. Additionally,
certain areas of the world are more cost conscious than the U.S. market and
there are instances where Ballantyne s products are priced higher than local
manufacturers making it more difficult to generate sufficient profit to justify
selling into these regions. Additionally, foreign exchange rates and excise
taxes sometimes make it difficult to market the Company s products overseas at
reasonable selling prices.  

     Gross Profit   

  Consolidated
gross profit increased to $14.9 million in 2005 from $13.5 million in
2004 and as a percent of revenue rose to 27.7% in 2005 from 27.5% in 2004.  

  Gross
profit in the theatre segment increased to $13.5 million in 2005 from
$12.5 million in 2004 but as a percent of sales fell to 27.1% from 27.6% a
year ago. The results reflect projection equipment and xenon lamp sales
representing a higher percentage of sales in 2005 and which carry a lower
margin than certain other products within the segment, namely such items as
replacement parts. The Company also experienced the effects of higher raw
material costs and some pricing pressures to remain competitive, however, these
items were primarily offset by production efficiencies due to increased sales
volume.  

  Gross
profit in the lighting segment rose to $1.1 million in 2005 from $0.8 million
a year ago and as a percent of revenues rose to 31.8% in 2005 from 26.9% in
2004. The results reflect a favorable product mix consisting of higher revenues
from higher-margin items such as replacement parts and Sky-Trackers    . The Company also experienced
favorable manufacturing efficiencies but they were primarily offset by higher
raw material costs. 

  Restaurant margins rose to $0.4 million in 2005
from $0.3 million a year ago and as a percent of revenue rose to 45.5%
from 24.7% a year ago. Restaurant margins have been volatile due to selling off
the discontinued equipment product line. Now that the majority of this
equipment is sold, management expects that the margins should stabilize in the
35-40% range.  

23     

Selling and Administrative Expenses   

  Selling
and administrative expenses amounted to $8.5 million in 2005 compared to
$7.7 million in 2004 but remained consistent as a percent of revenues at
approximately 15.7%.  

  Administrative
costs rose to $5.6 million or 10.5% of revenue compared to $4.6 million
or 9.4% a year ago reflecting additional costs pertaining to compliance with
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other consulting costs. The Company also
experienced higher state franchise taxes as well as higher bonus expenses
primarily due to higher operating income.  

  Selling expenses declined to $2.8 million or 5.3%
of revenue in 2005 from $3.1 million or 6.4% of revenues in 2004. The
decrease pertains to fewer advertising-related expenditures, lower salaries and
covering fixed costs with higher sales volume.  

     Other
Financial Items   

  Other
expenses (net of other income) amounted to approximately $47,000 compared to
$91,000 in 2004.  

  The
Company recorded income tax expense in 2005 of $2.5 million compared to
$0.8 million in 2004. The 2004 amount reflects reversals of certain
deferred tax asset valuation reserves resulting in a credit to income tax
expense in the amount of $1.2 million. The effective tax rate, excluding
the valuation reversals, rose to 36.5% in 2005 compared to 35.0% in 2004,
primarily due to higher state income taxes.  

  During
2005, the Company recorded interest income of $0.4 million compared to
$0.1 million in 2004 as the Company earned interest from higher cash
levels and invested in higher yield commercial paper. Interest expense declined
to $31,000 in 2005 from $35,000 in 2004.  

  For the reasons outlined herein, primarily the income
tax benefit of $1.2 million in 2004 relating to the reversal of the
deferred tax valuation allowance, the Company earned net income in 2005 of $4.3 million
compared to $5.1 million in 2004. This translated into basic and diluted
earnings per share of $0.33 and $0.31, respectively, compared to $0.40 and
$0.37 per share, respectively, in 2004.  

     Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to the Year
Ended December 31, 2003   

     Revenues   

  Net revenues from
continuing operations in 2004 increased 31.3% to $49.1 million from $37.4 million
in 2003. As discussed in further detail below, the increase resulted from
higher revenues from theatre products.  

Theatre Segment   

  Sales of theatre products increased 38.6% from $32.6 million
in 2003 to $45.1 million in 2004. In particular, sales of projection
equipment increased to $31.9 million in 2004 from $23.7 million in
2003. The improvement primarily resulted from increased demand for projection
equipment domestically as exhibitors were building more theatres due to
experiencing improved operating results and more access to capital. The Company s
top ten theatre customers accounted for approximately 48% of total theatre   

24     

revenues compared to 44%
in 2003, resulting primarily from a $2.1 million sale of special venue
products into China.  

  Sales of theatre replacement parts also reflected
improved industry conditions rising 26.8% to $7.2 million in 2004 from
$5.7 million a year ago. The increase was also attributable to more
projection equipment in service, higher sales prices and projection equipment
in service aging.  

  Sales of xenon lamps to the theatre industry rose
137.8% to $3.7 million from $1.6 million a year ago primarily a
result of gaining the business of a large theatre chain, the continuing
improvement of the theatre industry in general and increased marketing of the
product line. The Company has also increased exposure by selling these lamps
via an internet website.  

  Sales of lenses to theatre customers increased to $2.3 million
in 2004 compared to $1.6 million in 2003, a 43.7% increase due to more
demand in general and increased marketing of the product line.  

   Lighting Segment   

  Sale of lighting products declined 10.0% to $2.8 million
from $3.2 million a year ago as sales of follow spotlights decreased to
$1.3 million in 2004 from $1.9 million in 2003, a 35.7% decline due
to lower industry-wide demand for high-end spotlights, the lack of new arena
construction and increased competition. The Company is currently developing or
marketing new spotlight products that are less expensive, smaller and more
user-friendly to respond to the changing nature of the spotlight industry. The
Company is also modifying how its core spotlight products, the Super Trouper     and Gladiator   , are marketed to address the decline as
it believes these industry leading products still have a long market life
ahead. 

  Sales of Sky-Tracker     products rose 25.4% to $0.6 million from
$0.5 million in 2003 due to increased demand in general and sales such as
four Sky-Trackers    sold to the Staples Center in Los Angeles. 

  Sales of Britelight  products increased to $235,000
compared to $20,000 primarily from the sale of twelve MK5 Britelights during
the third quarter.  

  Sales of all other lighting products, including but
not limited to, replacement parts, xenon lamps and nocturns fell to $0.7 million
from $0.8 million in 2003, as increased replacement part sales were offset
by lower nocturn sales.  

   Restaurant Segment   

  Restaurant sales fell to $1.2 million in 2004
from $1.7 million in 2003, a result of the Company s decision to phase out
its unprofitable equipment product line comprised of smokers, ventilation hoods
and pressure fryers in the fourth quarter of 2003. The Company continues to
supply parts to its installed customer base and also continues to distribute
its  marinade and breading products under
the trademark Flavor Crisp     as well as support its  Chicken-On-The-Run  and  BBQ-On-The-Run 
programs. Sales of the discontinued equipment line amounted to $0.3 million
in 2004 compared to $0.9 million in 2003. Sales of replacement parts
amounted to $0.2 million in both 2004 and 2003 while coater and marinade
sales rose to $0.7 million from $0.6 million a year ago. 

     Export Revenues   

  Sales outside the United States (mainly theatre sales)
rose to $15.0 million in 2004 from $14.4 million in 2003, primarily
from a $2.1 million sale of special venue products for a theme park in
Changchung, China. Sales in most other regions of the world were either
comparable as was the case in Europe or lower than the prior year as was the
case in Mexico, South America and Canada. Export sales are sensitive to
worldwide economic and political conditions that can lead to volatility.
Additionally, certain areas of the world are more cost conscious than the U.S.
market and there are instances where Ballantyne s products are priced higher
than local manufacturers making it more difficult to generate sufficient profit
to justify selling into these regions. Additionally, foreign exchange rates and
excise taxes sometimes make it difficult to market the Company s products
overseas at reasonable selling prices.  

25  

Gross Profit   

  Consolidated gross profit increased to $13.5 million
in 2004 from $8.6 million in 2003 and as a percent of revenue increased to
27.5% in 2004 from 23.0% in 2003 due to improvements in the theatre segment as
discussed below:  

  Gross profit in the theatre segment increased to $12.5
million in 2004 from $7.5 million in 2003 and as a percent of sales increased
to 27.6% from 23.1% a year ago. The results reflect lower manufacturing costs
and favorable customer and product mixes. The favorable product mix resulted
from increased sales of higher margin replacement parts, however, a portion of
the benefit was offset by higher sales of lower margin xenon lamps. The
favorable customer mix resulted from a combination of raising prices on certain
historically low margin customers and selling directly to end-users more often,
thereby bypassing the distributor s share of the profit. Lower manufacturing
costs primarily relate to higher sales volume resulting in increased labor
productivity and other manufacturing efficiencies. The Company has also been
successful in improving labor productivity through certain lean manufacturing
projects making the Company s production personnel more efficient.  

  Gross profit in the lighting segment was flat at $0.8
million for both years despite declining sales due to lower manufacturing costs
and also higher margin replacement parts accounting for a larger percent of
revenues.  

  Restaurant margins were
flat at $0.3 million in 2004, however as a percent of sales rose to 24.7% in
2004 from the 18.4% generated in 2003 primarily due to less low margin
equipment being sold.  

     Selling
and Administrative Expenses   

  Selling and administrative
expenses amounted to $7.7 million in 2004 compared to $7.6 million in 2003 but
as a percent of revenue declined to 15.7% from 20.4% in 2003. The favorable
results stem from covering certain fixed costs with higher revenues during
2004, despite incurring additional costs pertaining to compliance with the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and for implementation of the Company s new bonus
plan. The results also reflect certain items included in 2003 expenses which
did not reoccur in 2004, including but not limited to, bad debt expenses,
settlement of an asbestos lawsuit in 2003 and certain postretirement benefits.
The bad debt expense pertains to a claim for approximately $0.4 million in 2003
for preferential payments relating to a former customer who filed bankruptcy in
2002. The Company had recorded an accrual with respect to this contingency
during 2003 but was able to reverse much of it during 2004 when the case was
settled for much less than the initial accrual. Lower postretirement benefit
costs relate to an accrual to recognize the initial accrued benefit liability
in 2003 for the Company s postretirement health care plan for certain of the
Company s current and former executives and their spouses.  

     Other Financial Items   

  Other expenses (net of other income) amounted to
approximately $91,000 in 2004 compared to $86,000 in 2003.  

  The Company recorded a gain on disposal of assets of
approximately $105,000 in 2004 compared to approximately $136,000 in 2003. The
2004 gain principally relates to the Company receiving insurance proceeds of
$0.3 million pertaining to repairing the Omaha plant s roof, resulting in a net
gain of $110,000. The gain of $136,000 recorded during 2003 resulted from the
Company divesting its remaining rental operations of the lighting segment
during the first quarter of that year.  

  The Company recorded income tax expense in 2004 of
$0.8 million compared to $0.5 million in 2003. The 2004 amount reflects
reversals of certain deferred tax asset valuation reserves resulting in a
credit to income tax expense in the amount of $1.2 million. The effective tax
rate decrease was due to certain   

26     

permanent differences
between income tax and financial reporting being lower as a percentage of
taxable income and the benefit of reversing certain accruals pertaining to
expiring statutes.  

  During 2004, the Company recorded interest income of
$130,000 compared to $87,000 in 2003 as the Company earned interest from higher
cash levels and invested in higher yield commercial paper. Interest expense
declined to $35,000 in 2004 from $39,000 in 2003 resulting from the fee on the
Company s unused portion of its credit facility being renegotiated to 0.125%
from 0.375%.  

  For the reasons outlined
herein, the Company earned net income in 2004 of $5.1 million compared to $0.6
million in 2003. This translated into net income per share basic and diluted of
$0.40 and $0.37 per share, respectively, in 2004 compared to $0.05 and $0.04
per share, respectively, in 2003.  

     Liquidity and Capital Resources   

  The Company is a party to a revolving credit facility
with First National Bank of Omaha expiring August 28, 2006. The Company
plans on renewing the credit facility in the ordinary course of business. The
credit facility provides for borrowings up to the lesser of $4.0 million or
amounts determined by an asset based lending formula, as defined. Borrowings
available under the credit facility amounted to $4.0 million at December 31,
2005. No amounts are currently outstanding. The Company pays interest on
outstanding amounts equal to the Prime Rate plus 0.25% (7.5% at December 31,
2005) and pays a fee of 0.125% on the unused portion. The credit facility contains
certain restrictive covenants mainly related to maintaining certain earnings,
as defined, and restrictions on acquisitions and dividends. All of the Company s
personal property and stock in its subsidiaries secure this credit facility.  

  Net cash provided by operating activities fell to $5.5
million in 2005 from $5.9 million a year ago despite operating income rising to
$6.5 million in 2005 from $5.9 million a year ago. The primary reason operating
income did not translate into high cash flow levels was accounts receivable
balances increasing $1.7 million during 2005. Other items reducing cash flow
included other current assets, customer deposits and the timing of accounts
payable payments. Other current assets rose $0.1 million due to more
consignment inventory on hand, customer deposits decreased due to the timing of
orders, while the timing of payments decreased accounts payable $0.4 million. Items
contributing to cash flow were successes in reducing inventory by $2.2 million
and the timing of income tax payments. Inventory turnover increased to 3.5
times in 2005 compared to 2.9 times a year ago.  

  Net cash used in investing activities amounted to $0.8
million for both 2005 and 2004, respectively. Capital expenditures amounted to
$0.8 million in 2005 compared to $1.1 million a year ago. During 2005, the
Company purchased a large machining center while during 2004 the Company
purchased two machine centers and replaced the roof at its Omaha plant. During
2004, the Company received proceeds from the disposal of assets of $0.3 million
primarily a result of receiving insurance proceeds pertaining to replacing the
Omaha plant s roof.  

  Net cash provided by
financing activities amounted to $0.9 million compared to $0.2 million in 2004.
The Company received proceeds of $0.9 million from its stock plans in 2005 and
made $26,000 of debt payments. During 2004, the Company received proceeds of
$0.2 million from its stock plans and made debt payments of $24,000. In a large
part, the proceeds received from the stock plans in 2005 resulted from plans
set up under SEC Rule 10b-1 for certain executives to exercise and
sell certain stock options prior to their expiration dates.  

     Transactions
with Related and Certain Other Parties   

  There were no significant
transactions with related and certain other parties during 2005.  

27     

Internal
Controls Over Financial Reporting   

  Current SEC rules implementing
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require the Company s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2007 to include a report on management s
assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal controls over
financial reporting and a statement that the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management s
assessment of the Company s internal controls over financial reporting and a
report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal controls over financial
reporting. However, it is possible that the Company will become an  accelerated
filer  as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act and if so this
report and statement will need to be included in its Form 10-K for
fiscal 2006. The Company will not know whether it will become an accelerated
filer until June 30, 2006, which is the next date at which this status is
determined. While the Company has not yet identified any material weaknesses in
internal controls over financial reporting, there are no assurances that the
Company will not discover deficiencies in its internal controls as it
implements new documentation and testing procedures to comply with the new Section 404
reporting requirement. If the Company discovers deficiencies or is unable to
complete the work necessary to properly evaluate its internal controls over
financial reporting, there is a risk that management and/or the Company s
independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that
the Company s internal controls over financial reporting are effective.  

     Concentrations   

  The Company s top ten customers accounted for
approximately 48% of 2005 consolidated net revenues and were primarily from the
theatre segment. Trade accounts receivable from these customers represented
approximately 60% of net consolidated receivables at December 31, 2005. Sales
to AMC Theatres, Inc. represented approximately 10% of consolidated sales.
Additionally, receivables from Vari International represented 16% of net
consolidated receivables at December 31, 2005. While the Company believes
its relationships with such customers are stable, most arrangements are made by
purchase order and are terminable at will by either party. A significant
decrease or interruption in business from the Company s significant customers
could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, financial
condition and results of operations. The Company could also be adversely
affected by such factors as changes in foreign currency rates and weak economic
and political conditions in each of the countries in which the Company sells
its products. In addition, advancing technologies, such as digital cinema,
could disrupt historical customer relationships.  

  Financial instruments that potentially expose the
Company to a concentration of credit risk principally consist of accounts
receivable. The Company sells product to a large number of customers in many
different geographic regions. To minimize credit concentration risk, the
Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers  financial
condition or uses letters of credit.  

  Increased competition also results in continued
exposure to the Company. If the Company loses market share or encounters more
competition relating to the development of new technology for alternate means
of motion picture presentation such as digital technology, the Company may be
unable to lower its cost structure quickly enough to offset the lost revenue. To
counter these risks, the Company has initiated a cost reduction program,
continues to streamline its manufacturing processes and is formulating a
strategy to respond to the digital marketplace. The Company also is focusing on
a growth and diversification strategy to find alternative product lines to
become less dependent on the theatre exhibition industry. However, no
assurances can be given that this strategy will succeed or that the Company
will be able to obtain adequate financing to take advantage of potential
opportunities.  

  The principal raw
materials and components used in the Company s manufacturing processes include
aluminum, reflectors, electronic subassemblies and sheet metal. The Company
utilizes a single contract manufacturer for each of its intermittent movement
components, reflectors, certain aluminum castings,   

28     

lenses
and xenon lamps. Although the Company has not to-date experienced a significant
difficulty in obtaining these components, no assurance can be given that
shortages will not arise in the future. The loss of any one or more of such
contract manufacturers could have a short-term adverse effect on the Company
until alternative manufacturing arrangements were secured. The Company is not
dependent upon any one contract manufacturer or supplier for the balance of its
raw materials and components. The Company believes that there are adequate
alternative sources of such raw materials and components of sufficient quantity
and quality.  

     Hedging and Trading Activities   

  The Company does not
engage in any hedging activities, including currency-hedging activities, in
connection with its foreign operations and sales. To date, all of the Company s
international sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars, exclusive of Strong
Westrex, Inc. sales, which are denominated in Hong Kong dollars. In
addition, the Company does not have any trading activities that include
non-exchange traded contracts at fair value.  

     Off
Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   

  The
Company s off balance sheet arrangements consist principally of leasing various
assets under operating leases. The future estimated payments under these
arrangements are summarized below along with the Company s other contractual
obligations:  

There were no other
contractual obligations other than inventory and property, plant and equipment
purchases in the ordinary course of business.  

     Seasonality   

  Generally, the Company s
business exhibits a moderate level of seasonality as sales of theatre products
typically increase during the third and fourth quarters. The Company believes
that such increased sales reflect seasonal increases in the construction of new
motion picture screens in anticipation of the holiday movie season.  

     Environmental and Legal   

  See note 13 to the
consolidated financial statements, and Item 3 of this report, for a full
description of all environmental and legal matters.  

     Inflation   

  The Company believes that
the relatively moderate rates of inflation in recent years have not had a
significant impact on its net revenues or profitability. The Company did
experience higher than normal prices on certain raw materials during the year
coupled with higher freight costs as freight companies passed on a portion of
higher gas and oil costs. Historically, the Company has been able to offset any
inflationary effects by either increasing prices or improving cost
efficiencies.  

29     

2006 Outlook   

  The Company has begun to
see evidence of the theatre exhibition industry s expected transition to
digital cinema during 2006. Theatre owners are now evaluating their options as
they plan capital expenditures relative to new or used film projectors or
digital equipment. However, the extent and timing of the impact to Ballantyne s
2006 revenues and operations is currently unclear. Digital cinema remains an
important component of the Company s long-term growth strategy, and it
continues to work closely with its partner, NEC Solutions (America), Inc.,
to launch this next generation technology within the exhibition industry.  

      Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk    

  The Company markets its products throughout the United
States and the world. As a result, the Company could be adversely affected by
such factors as changes in foreign currency rates and weak economic conditions.
In particular, the Company was impacted by the downturn in the North American
theatre exhibition industry in fiscal years 2000 to 2002 in the form of lost
revenues and bad debts. Additionally, as a majority of sales are currently
denominated in U.S. dollars, a strengthening of the dollar can and sometimes
has made the Company s products less competitive in foreign markets. As stated
above, the majority of the Company s foreign sales are denominated in U.S.
dollars except for its subsidiary in Hong Kong. The Company purchases the
majority of its lenses from a German manufacturer. Based on forecasted
purchases during 2006, an average 10% devaluation of the dollar compared to the
Euro would cost the Company approximately $0.2 million.  

  The Company has also evaluated its exposure to
fluctuations in interest rates. If the Company would borrow up to the maximum
amount available under its variable interest rate credit facility, a one
percent increase in the interest rate would increase interest expense by
$40,000 per annum. No amounts are currently outstanding under the credit
facility. Interest rate risks from the Company s other interest-related
accounts such as its postretirement obligations are deemed to not be
significant.  

  The Company has not historically and is not currently
using derivative instruments to manage the above risks.  

30  

Item 8.         Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data    

     INDEX
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

31  

MANAGEMENT S RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   

  The consolidated financial statements of Ballantyne of
Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries and the other information contained in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K were prepared by and are the responsibility
of management. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and
necessarily include amounts based on management s best estimates and judgments.  

  In fulfilling its responsibilities, management relies
on a system of internal controls, which provide reasonable assurance that the
financial records are reliable for preparing financial statements and
maintaining accountability of assets. Internal controls are designed to reduce
the risk that material errors or irregularities in the financial statements may
occur and not be timely detected. These systems are augmented by written
policies, careful selection and training of qualified personnel, an
organizational structure providing for the division of responsibilities and a
program of financial, operational and systems reviews.  

  The Audit Committee of the
Board of Directors, composed of three non-employee directors, is responsible
for recommending to the Board of Directors the independent accounting firm to
be retained each year. The Audit Committee meets regularly, and when
appropriate separately, with the independent auditors and management to review
the Company s performance. The independent auditors and the Audit Committee
have unrestricted access to each other in the discharge of their
responsibilities.  

/s/ JOHN
  P. WILMERS 

John P. Wilmers  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/ BRAD FRENCH  

Brad French  

Secretary/Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer  

32  

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

  Board of Directors and Shareholders 
Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc.:  

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2005. In connection with our audits of the
consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement
schedule II. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedule II based on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our
opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule II, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein.  

33  

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets 
December 31, 2005 and 2004   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.     34  

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements
of Operations 
Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.     35  

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements
of Stockholders  Equity  Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.     36  

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows 
Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.     37  

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003   

     1.                     Company 

  Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation ( Ballantyne  or the  Company ), and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries Strong Westrex, Inc., and Design   Manufacturing, Inc.,
design, develop, manufacture and distribute commercial motion picture equipment
and lighting systems and distributes restaurant products. The Company s
products are distributed to movie exhibition companies, sports arenas,
auditoriums, amusement parks, special venues, and the food service industry. Refer
to the Business Segment Section (note 13) for further information.  

   2.                     Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies 

  The principal accounting
policies upon which the accompanying consolidated financial statements are
based are summarized as follows:  

   a.                       Basis of Presentation and Principles of
Consolidation  

  The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. All
significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.  

   b.                      Use of Estimates  

  The preparation of consolidated
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
the reporting period. Actual results and changes in facts and circumstances may
alter such estimates and affect results of operations and financial position in
future periods.  

    c.                              Allowance for Doubtful Accounts    

  Accounts receivable are
presented net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $420,223 and $485,829 at December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. This allowance is developed based on several
factors including overall customer credit quality, historical write-off
experience and a specific analysis that projects the ultimate collectibility of
the account. As such, these factors may change over time causing the reserve
level to adjust accordingly.  

   d.                      Inventories  

  Inventories are stated at
the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market and include appropriate
elements of material, labor and manufacturing overhead. Inventory balances are
net of reserves of slow moving or obsolete inventory estimated based on
management s review of inventories on hand compared to estimated future usage
and sales.  

   e.                       Goodwill and Intangible Assets  

  The Company capitalizes
and includes in intangible assets the excess of cost over the fair value of net
identifiable assets of operations acquired through purchase transactions ( goodwill )
in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ( SFAS ) No. 142,   Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets  . SFAS No. 142 requires goodwill no
longer be amortized to earnings, but instead be reviewed at least annually for
impairment. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying   

38     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

amount
exceeds the asset s estimated fair value. The majority of the goodwill is
attributed to the Company s theatre segment.  

  Other intangible assets
are stated at cost and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected
periods to be benefited (25 to 36 months). These assets became fully amortized
during 2005.  

   f.                         Property, Plant and Equipment  

  Significant expenditures
for the replacement or expansion of property, plant and equipment are
capitalized. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided over the
estimated useful lives of the respective assets using the straight-line method.
For financial reporting purposes, assets are depreciated over the estimated
useful lives of 20 years for buildings and improvements, 3 to 10 years for
machinery and equipment, 7 years for furniture and fixtures and 3 years for
computers and accessories. The Company generally uses accelerated methods of
depreciation for income tax purposes.  

   g.                       Income Taxes  

  Income taxes are accounted
for under the asset and liability method. The Company uses an estimate of its
annual effective rate at each interim period based on the facts and
circumstances at the time while the actual effective rate is calculated at
year-end. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases and operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable
income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets,
management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or
all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.  

   h.                      Revenue Recognition  

  The Company recognizes
revenue from product sales upon shipment to the customer when collectibility is
reasonably assured. Revenues related to services are recognized as earned over
the terms of the contracts or delivery of the service to the customer.  

  The
Company enters into transactions that represent multiple element arrangements,
which may include a combination of services and asset sales. Under EITF 00-21,   Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables  , multiple
element arrangements are assessed to determine whether they can be separated
into more than one unit of accounting. A multiple element arrangement is
separated into more than one unit of accounting if all of the following
criteria are met.  

             The
delivered items(s) has value on a standalone basis; 

             There
is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered
item(s); 

             If
the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered
item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered
probable and substantially in the control of the Company. 

  If these criteria are not
met, then revenue is deferred until such criteria are met or until the period(s) over
which the last undelivered element is delivered. If there is objective and
reliable evidence of fair value for all units of accounting in an arrangement,
the arrangement consideration is allocated to the   

39     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

separate
units of accounting based on each unit s relative fair value. There may be
cases, however, in which there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value
of the undelivered item(s) but no such evidence for the delivered item(s).
In those cases, the residual method is used to allocate the arrangement
consideration. Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated
to the delivered items(s) equals the total arrangement consideration less
the aggregate fair value of the undelivered item.  

   i.                         Research and Development  

  Research and development
costs are charged to operations in the period incurred. Such costs amounted to
approximately $455,000, $328,000 and $590,000 for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

   j.                          Advertising Costs  

  Advertising and
promotional costs are expensed as incurred and amounted to approximately
$729,000, $725,000 and $989,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.  

   k.                      Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

  The fair value of a
financial instrument is the amount at which the instruments could be exchanged
in a current transaction between willing parties. Cash and cash equivalents,
accounts receivable, debt, accounts payable and accrued expenses reported in
the consolidated balance sheets equal or approximate their fair values.  

   l.                         Cash and Cash Equivalents  

  All highly liquid
financial instruments with maturities of three months or less from date of
purchase are classified as cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheets
and statements of cash flows.  

40     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

m.                  Earnings
Per Common Share  

  The
Company computes and presents earnings per share in accordance with SFAS No. 128,
  Earnings Per Share  . Basic earnings per
share has been computed on the basis of the weighted average number of shares
of common stock outstanding. Diluted earnings per share has been computed on
the basis of the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding
after giving effect to potential common shares from dilutive stock options. The
following table provides a reconciliation between basic and diluted income per
share:  

At December 31, 2005,
options to purchase 268,800 shares of common stock at a weighted average price
of $8.43 per share were outstanding, but were not included in the computation
of diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2005 as the
options  exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common
shares. These options expire between January 2007 and May 2010. At December 31,
2004, options to purchase 237,925 shares of common stock at a weighted average
price of $8.61 per share were outstanding, but were not included in the
computation of diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31,
2004 as the options  exercise price was greater than the average market price
of the common shares.  

41     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

n.                      Stock
Based Compensation  

  As
permitted under SFAS No. 123,   Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation  , and amended by SFAS No. 148,   Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Transition
and Disclosure  , the Company elected to account for its stock based
compensation plans under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ( APB )
Opinion No. 25,   Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees  , and related interpretations. Consequently, when
both the number of shares and the exercise price is known at the grant date, no
compensation expense is recognized for stock options issued to employees and
directors unless the exercise price of the option is less than the quoted value
of the Company s common stock at the date of grant. Had compensation cost for
the Company s stock compensation plans been determined consistent with SFAS No. 123
as amended by SFAS No. 148, the Company s net income, basic earnings per
share and diluted earnings per share would have decreased to the pro forma
amounts indicated below:  

The average fair value of
each option granted in 2005, 2004 and 2003 amounted to $2.55, $2.18 and $0.75,
respectively. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model made with the following
weighted average assumptions:  

42  

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

   o.      Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets   

  The Company reviews long-lived assets, exclusive of
goodwill, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable in accordance with
SFAS No. 144,   Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  . Recoverability of
assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount
of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by
the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be
recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets
exceeds their fair value. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of
the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.  

  The Company s most
significant long-lived assets subject to these periodic assessments of
recoverability are property, plant and equipment, which have a net book value
of $5.4 million at December 31, 2005. Because the recoverability of property,
plant and equipment is based on estimates of future undiscounted cash flows,
these estimates may vary due to a number of factors, some of which may be
outside of management s control. To the extent that the Company is unable to
achieve management s forecasts of future income, it may become necessary to
record impairment losses for any excess of the net book value of property,
plant and equipment over its fair value.  

   p.      Warranty Reserves   

  The Company generally
grants a warranty to its customers for a one-year period following the sale of
all new equipment, and on selected repaired equipment for a one-year period
following the repair. The warranty period is extended under certain
circumstances and for certain products. The Company accrues for these costs at
the time of sale or repair, when events dictate that additional accruals are
necessary.  

  The
following table summarizes warranty activity for the three years ended December 31,
2005.  

q.      Comprehensive Income   

  The Company s
comprehensive income consists solely of net income. All other items were not material
to the consolidated financial statements.  

   r.      Reclassifications   

  Certain amounts in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been
reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation.  

43     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

s.      Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements   

  The Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) has adopted SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs an
Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.  
The provisions of SFAS 151 are intended to eliminate narrow differences
between the existing accounting standards of the FASB and the International
Accounting Standards Board (IASB) related to inventory costs, in particular,
the treatment of abnormal idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and
spoilage. SFAS 151 requires that these costs be recognized as current period
charges regardless of the extent to which they are considered abnormal. The
provisions of SFAS 151 are effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 151 is not
expected to have a significant impact on the Company s results of operations or
financial position.  

  The FASB has issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based
Payment  (SFAS 123R) which replaced SFAS 123 and superseded APB 25. Under the provisions
of SFAS 123R, companies are required to measure the cost of employee services
received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date
fair value of the award (with limited exception). That cost will be recognized
over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in
exchange for the award, usually the vesting period. On April 14, 2005, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved a delay to the effective date
of SFAS 123R. Under the new SEC rule, SFAS 123R is effective for annual periods
that begin after June 15, 2005. SFAS 123R applies to all awards granted,
modified, repurchased or cancelled after December 31, 2005 and to unvested
awards at the date of adoption. The Company expects to use the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model using similar assumptions as those currently used to
determine pro-forma compensation expense disclosed in the footnotes to these
financial statements. The Company will adopt SFAS 123R in the first quarter of
2006.  

  The FASB issued FSP FAS
123R-2,  Practical Accommodation to the Application of Grant Date as
Defined in FAS 123R  (FSP 123R-2) in October 2005. FSP 123R-2
provides guidance on the application of grant date as defined in SFAS No. 123R.
In accordance with this standard, a grant date of an award exists if a) the
award is a unilateral grant and b) the key terms and conditions of the award
are expected to be communicated to an individual recipient within a relatively
short time period from the date of approval. The Company will adopt this standard
when it adopts SFAS 123R, and it is not expected to have a material impact on
its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

  During 2005, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  (SFAS 154).
SFAS 154 is a replacement of Accounting Principles Board No. 20,  Accounting
Changes  and FASB Statement No. 3  Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim
Financial Statement.   SFAS 154 provides
guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error
corrections. It establishes retrospective application as the required method
for reporting a change in accounting principle. SFAS 154 provides guidance for
determining whether retrospective application of a change in accounting
principle is impracticable and for reporting a change when retrospective
application is impracticable. The reporting of a correction of an error by
restating previously issued financial statements is also addressed by SFAS 154.
SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in
fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2005. The Company will adopt
this pronouncement beginning in fiscal year 2006.  

  During 2005, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 153,  Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets  which eliminates the
exception to the fair-value principle for exchanges of  similar productive
assets,  which had been accounted for based on the book value of the asset
surrendered with no gain recognition. Nonmonetary exchanges have to be
accounted for at fair-value, recognizing any gain or loss, if the transactions
meet the   

44     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

commercial-substance
criterion and fair-value determinable. The Statement reduces the differences
between U.S. and international accounting standards. This Statement is
effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning
after June 15, 2005. The Company will adopt this Statement in the first
quarter of fiscal 2006 and does not expect this pronouncement to have a
material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.  

  In December 2004, the
FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109-1 ( FSP FAS 109-1 ),
 Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to
the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities provided by the American
Jobs Creation Act of 2004.   FSP FAS 109-1
clarifies that the deduction will be treated as a  special deduction  as
described in SFAS 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.   As such, the special deduction has no effect
on deferred tax assets and liabilities existing at the date of enactment. The
impact of the deduction will be reported in the period in which the deduction
is claimed. The incentive for U.S. qualified production activities included in
the Act is effective as of December 21, 2004.  

   3.      Sale of
Rental Assets and Operations   

  On July 31, 2002, the
Company sold certain rental assets and operations of Xenotech Rental Corp. in
North Hollywood, California to the subsidiary s former general manager for
proceeds of $500,000. The Company recorded a gain of approximately $175,000 on
the sale. The Company retained all cash, accounts receivable, inventory and
payable amounts recorded at the time of sale. In January 2003, the Company
sold its entertainment lighting rental operations located in Orlando, Florida
and Atlanta, Georgia. In connection with the transaction, certain assets were
segregated and sold in two separate transactions to the general manager of each
location for an aggregate of $290,000. The Company retained all cash, accounts
receivable, inventory and payable balances recorded at the time of sale. The
Company recorded an aggregate gain of approximately $136,000 from these sales
transactions during 2003. The assets and operating results of the operations
sold were not material to the consolidated financial statements.  

   4.      Intangible
Assets   

  Intangible
assets consist of the following:  

45     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

SFAS No. 142,
effective January 1, 2002, requires goodwill no longer be amortized to
earnings, but instead be reviewed at least annually for impairment. Consequently,
the Company stopped amortizing goodwill on January 1, 2002. In applying
SFAS No. 142, the Company performed the annual reassessment and impairment
test in the fourth quarters of 2005 and 2004 and determined that goodwill was
not impaired.  

  During 2002, the Company
purchased certain intangible assets pertaining to an asset purchase agreement
between the Company and Forest Industrial Tool, Inc. The assets were
recorded based on the present value of future cash payments under the agreement.
The Company was amortizing these intangibles on a straight-line basis over the
expected periods to be benefited (25 to 36 months) until they became fully
depreciated during 2005.  

  The Company recorded
amortization expense relating to other identifiable intangible assets of
$23,488, $40,585 and $40,743 for the years ending December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively.  

   5.      Inventories   

  Inventories
consist of the following:  

The inventory balances are
net of reserves for slow moving or obsolete inventory of approximately
$1,138,000 and $1,086,000 as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

46  

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

   6.      Property,
Plant and Equipment   

  Property, plant and
equipment include the following:  

Depreciation expense
amounted to approximately $1,113,000, $1,042,000 and $1,163,000 for the years
ending December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

     7.      Debt   

  The Company is a party to a revolving credit facility
with First National Bank of Omaha expiring August 28, 2006. The Company
expects to renew the credit facility in the ordinary course of business. The
credit facility provides for borrowings up to the lesser of $4.0 million or
amounts determined by an asset based lending formula, as defined. Borrowings
available under the credit facility amounted to $4.0 million at
December 31, 2005. No amounts are currently outstanding. The Company would
pay interest on outstanding amounts equal to the Prime Rate plus 0.25% (7.50%
at December 31, 2005) and pays a fee of 0.125% on the unused portion. The
credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants primarily related to
maintaining certain earnings, as defined, and restrictions on acquisitions and
dividends. All of the Company s personal property and stock in its subsidiaries
secure this credit facility.  

  Long-term debt at
December 31, 2005 consisted entirely of installment payments relating to
the purchase of certain intangible assets. Future maturities of long-term debt
as of December 31, 2005 are $27,761 in 2006 and $14,609 in 2007.  

    8.      Income
Taxes    

  Income
before income taxes consists of:  

47     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

Income
tax expense (benefit) attributable to income from continuing operations
consists of:  

Income
tax expense attributable to income from continuing operations differed from the
amounts computed by applying the U.S. Federal income tax rate of 34 percent to
pretax income from continuing operations as follows:  

Deferred
tax assets and liabilities were comprised of the following:  

During the third quarter of 2004, the Company reversed
all valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets as management believed
that it was more likely than not that all deferred tax assets would be realized
taking into consideration all available evidence including historical pre-tax
and taxable income, projected future pre-tax and taxable income and the
expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences. The
reversal was recorded as an offset against income tax expense in the amount of
$1.5 million of which $1.1 million relates to projected future pre-tax income. As
of December 31, 2005, the   

48     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

Company had state NOL
carryforwards available to offset future state taxable income which are set to
expire beginning in 2006 and thereafter.  

  The American Job Creative
Act of 2004 was signed into law in October 2004 and replaces an export
incentive with a deduction from domestic manufacturing incomes. The change did
not have a material impact on the Company s results of operations, financial
position or cash flows.  

     9.      Supplemental Cash Flow Information   

  Supplemental
disclosures to the consolidated statements of cash flows are as follows:  

10.  
Stockholder Rights Plan   

  On May 26, 2000, the
Board of Directors of the Company adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan (the  Rights
Plan ). Under terms of the Rights Plan, which expires June 9, 2010, the
Company declared a distribution of one right for each outstanding share of
common stock. The rights become exercisable only if a person or group (other
than certain exempt persons, as defined) acquires 15 percent or more of
Ballantyne common stock or announces a tender offer for 15 percent or more of
Ballantyne s common stock. Under certain circumstances, the Rights Plan allows
stockholders, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase the Company s
common stock at an exercise price of half the market price.  

     11. Common Stock   

     a.      Option Plans   

  The Company has adopted a 1995 Incentive and
Non-Incentive Stock Option Plan for employees, ( 1995 Employee Stock Option
Plan ), a 1995 Non-Employee Directors Non-Incentive Stock Option Plan ( 1995
Outside Directors Plan ), a 2001 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan ( 2001
Directors Plan ), a 2005 Restricted Stock Plan and a 2005 Outside Directors
Stock Option Plan. A total of 1,402,940 shares of Ballantyne common stock have
been reserved for issuance pursuant to these plans at December 31, 2005. The
1995 Employee Stock Option Plan and the 1995 Directors Stock Option Plan
expired in September 2005 except, in each case, with respect to grants and
awards outstanding. The 1995 Employee Stock Option Plan provided for the
granting of incentive and non-incentive stock options while the 1995, 2001 and
2005 Outside Directors Stock Option Plans provide for the granting of
non-incentive stock options only. The purpose of the 2001 Directors Plan was to
enable the Company to grant options to purchase Company stock to its
non-employee directors in lieu of all or part of the cash retainer otherwise
paid to them for service on the Board.  The per share exercise price of incentive stock
options may not be less than 100% of the fair market value of a share of
Ballantyne common stock on the date of grant (110% of fair market value in the
case of an incentive stock option granted to any person who, at the time the
incentive stock option is granted, owns (or is considered as owning within the
meaning of Section 424 (d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended) stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting powers of
all classes of stock of the Company or any parent or subsidiary). With respect   

49     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

to non-incentive stock
options, the per share exercise price may not be less than 85% of the fair
market value of a share of Ballantyne common stock on the date of grant.  

  The
following table summarizes stock option activity for the three years ended December 31,
2005.  

The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding and
exercisable at December 31, 2005:  

In addition to those
options granted above, the Company granted 100,000 contractual stock options
during 2001 to its Chairman of the Board that were not granted pursuant to any
plan. These options are 100% vested and can be exercised at a price of $0.49. The
options expire in September 2006.  

     b.      Employee Stock Purchase Plan   

  The Company s Employee
Stock Purchase Plan (the  Plan ) provides for the purchase of shares of
Ballantyne common stock by eligible employees at a per share purchase price
equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share of Ballantyne common stock at
either the beginning or end of the offering period, as defined, whichever is
lower. Purchases are made through payroll deductions of up to 10% of each   

50     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

participating
employee s salary. The number of shares that can be purchased by participants
in any offering period is 2,000 shares. Additionally, the Plan has set certain
limits, as defined, in regard to the number of shares that may be purchased by
all eligible employees during an offering period. At December 31, 2005,
150,000 shares of common stock remained available for issuance under the Plan. The
Plan expires in September 2010.  

     12.   Commitments, Contingencies and Concentrations   

     a.      Bonus Plans   

  During 2004, the Board of
Directors approved two cash incentive plans, the Executive Officers Performance
Bonus Compensation Plan and the Employee Performance Bonus Compensation Plan to
replace the Company s previous Profit Sharing Plan. The plans are annual cash
incentive programs that provide certain officers and key employees cash bonuses
if the Company achieves certain financial goals. Each payout is further subject
to the achievement of certain individual goals, as defined. Charges to expense
for the plans amounted to approximately $1,213,000 and $995,000 for the years
ending December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. No amounts were expensed
or paid under the previous Profit Sharing Plan during the year ending December 31,
2003.  

     b.      Retirement Plan   

  The Company sponsors a
defined contribution 401-K plan (the  Plan ) for all eligible employees. Pursuant
to the provisions of the Plan, employees may defer up to 100% of their
compensation. The Company will match 50% of the amount deferred up to 6% of
their compensation. The contributions made to the Plan by the Company for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 amounted to approximately
$186,000, $194,000 and $177,000, respectively.  

     c.      Postretirement Health Care   

  The Company sponsors a postretirement health care plan
(the  Plan ) for certain current and former executives and their spouses. The
Company s policy is to fund the cost of the Plan as expenses are incurred. The
costs of the postretirement benefits are accrued over the employees  service
lives.  

51     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

In
accordance with SFAS No. 132,   Disclosures
About Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits  , the following
table sets forth the funded status of the Plan, reconciled to the accrued
postretirement benefit cost recognized in the Company s consolidated balance
sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2004.  

The
following table provides the components of net periodic benefit cost for the
Plan for the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:  

The prior year service costs are amortized on a
straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of active
participants. Gains and losses in excess of 10% of the benefit obligation are
amortized over the average remaining service period of active participants.  

  The Plan is unfunded and thus has no assets. The
discount rate assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 were 5.50%, 6.0% and 6.25%, respectively. The discount rate
assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 were 6.0%, 6.25% and 6.75%, respectively. For measurement
purposes, the annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health
care benefits was assumed to be 8.5%, 9.0% and 9.5% for the years ending December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The rate of increase for all years was
assumed to decrease gradually each year to a rate of 6% for 2011 and remain at
that level thereafter. The Company expects to pay $6,045 under the Plan in
2006.  

52  

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

  The following table
summarizes future expected benefit payments related to the Plan at
December 31, 2005:  

Assumed
health care trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for
health care plans. A 1% change in assumed health care cost trend rates would
have the following effects:  

1% 
  Increase   

1% 
  Decrease   

Effect on total
  service and interest cost components of periodic postretirement health care
  benefit cost  

$  

4,620  

$  

(4,038  

)  

Effect on the health
  care component of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation  

$  

56,692  

$  

(49,620  

)  

In December 2003, the United States enacted into
law the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003
(the  Act ). The Act established a prescription drug benefit under Medicare,
known as  Medicare Part D  and a federal subsidy to sponsors of retired
healthcare benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially
equivalent to Medicare Part D. On May 19, 2004, the FASB issued Staff
Position No. FAS-106-2,  Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003  (FSP-106-2), which requires measures of
the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and net periodic
postretirement benefit costs to reflect the effects of the Act in the first
interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2004. On
January 21, 2005, final regulations under the Act were issued. The effects
of the Act did not have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Company.  

   d. Concentrations   

  The Company s top ten customers accounted for
approximately 48% of 2005 consolidated net revenues. The top ten customers were
primarily from the theatre segment. Trade accounts receivable from these
customers represented approximately 60% of net consolidated receivables at December 31,
2005. Sales to AMC Theatres, Inc. represented approximately 10% of
consolidated sales. Additionally, receivables from Vari International
represented 16% of net consolidated receivables at December 31, 2005. While
the Company believes its relationships with such customers are stable, most
arrangements are made by purchase order and are terminable at will by either
party. A significant decrease or interruption in business from the Company s
significant customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company s
business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company could also
be adversely affected by such factors as changes in foreign currency rates and
weak economic and political conditions in each of the countries in which the
Company sells its products.  

  Financial instruments that potentially expose the
Company to a concentration of credit risk principally consist of accounts
receivable. The Company sells product to a large number of customers in many   

53     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

different geographic
regions. To minimize credit concentration risk, the Company performs ongoing
credit evaluations of its customers  financial condition.  

  The principal raw materials and components used in the
Company s manufacturing processes include aluminum, reflectors, electronic
subassemblies and sheet metal. The Company uses a single manufacturer for each
of its intermittent movement components, reflectors, aluminum castings, lenses
and xenon lamps. Although the Company has not to-date experienced a significant
difficulty in obtaining these components, no assurance can be given that
shortages will not arise in the future. The loss of any one or more of such
contract manufacturers could have a short-term adverse effect on the Company
until alternative manufacturing arrangements are secured.  

  Sales to foreign customers
amounted to approximately $15,800,000, $15,000,000 and $14,400,000 for the
years ending December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Export sales
are sensitive to worldwide economic and political conditions that can lead to
volatility. Additionally, certain areas of the world are more cost conscious
than the U.S. market and there are instances where Ballantyne s products are
priced higher than local manufacturers. Additionally, foreign exchange rates
and excise taxes sometimes make marketing the Company s products at reasonable
selling prices difficult.  

   e. Leases   

  The Company and its subsidiaries lease office
facilities, furniture, autos and equipment under operating leases expiring
through 2008. These leases generally contain renewal options and the Company
expects to renew or replace the leases in the ordinary course of business. Rent
expense under operating lease agreements amounted to approximately $74,000,
$98,000 and $108,000 for the years ending December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively.  

  The Company leases a facility in Florida used by the
audiovisual segment that was sold on December 31, 2002. In connection with
the sale, the Company entered into a sublease agreement with the purchaser
(Strong Audiovisual Incorporated). The term of this sublease is for a period of
42 months ending on June 30, 2006. There are no options to extend the term
of the sublease.  

  The
following is a schedule of future minimum lease payments for operating leases
having initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year as
of December 31, 2005:  

f. Self-Insurance   

  The Company is
self-insured up to certain stop loss limits for group health insurance. Accruals
for claims incurred but not paid as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 are
included in accrued group health insurance claims in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets. The Company s policy is to accrue the employee
health benefit accruals based on historical information along with certain
assumptions about future events.  

54     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

g. Litigation   

  On March 18, 2005 the plaintiff dismissed without
prejudice an asbestos-related lawsuit in a Madison County, Illinois entitled   Julia Crow, Individually and as Special Administrator of the Estate of
Thomas Smith V. A. W. Chesterton, et al  ., including Ballantyne.  

  Ballantyne is currently a defendant in an asbestos
case entitled   Bercu      v. BICC
Cables Corporation, et al.,   filed June 27, 2003     in the Supreme Court of the State of New York. There are
numerous defendants including Ballantyne. The case is set for trial to commence
on May 1, 2006. Ballantyne believes that it has strong defenses and
intends to seek a pre-trial summary judgment in its favor. Even so, it is not
possible to predict the outcome of either the summary judgment request or the
trial. Likewise, it is difficult to predict the amount of damages, if any, that
a jury might award and the plaintiffs have made no monetary demand upon
Ballantyne. It is possible that an adverse resolution of this case could have a
material adverse effect on Ballantyne s results of operations, financial
position or cash flows.  

  Ballantyne is a party to
various other legal actions which are ordinary routine litigation matters
incidental to the Company s business, such as products liability. Based on
currently available information, management believes that the ultimate outcome
of these matters individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company s results of operations, financial position or
cash flows.  

   h. Environmental   

  The Company is subject to
various federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to
environmental protection and the discharge of material into the environment. During
2001, Ballantyne was informed by a neighboring company of likely contaminated
soil on certain parcels of land adjacent to Ballantyne s main manufacturing
facility in Omaha, Nebraska. The Environmental Protection Agency and the
Nebraska Health and Human Services System subsequently determined that certain
parcels of Ballantyne property had various levels of contaminated soil relating
to a former pesticide company which previously owned the property and that
burned down in the 1960 s. During October 2004, Ballantyne agreed to enter
into an Administrative Order on Consent ( AOC ) to resolve the matter. The AOC
holds Ballantyne and two other parties jointly and severally responsible for
the cleanup. In this regard, the three parties have also entered into a Site
Allocation Agreement by which they will divide past, current and future costs
of the EPA, the costs of remediation and the cost of long term maintenance. In
connection with the AOC, the Company has paid its share of the costs. At December 31,
2005, the Company has provided for management s estimate of any future payments
relating to this matter which is not material to the consolidated financial
statements.  

   i. Contingencies   

  In October 2003,
management identified that an administrative-level employee misappropriated
funds from the Company. The actions took place from 1998 through October 2003,
when the employee was terminated. As a result of the investigation by the
Company s management and audit committee, the total loss was determined to be
approximately $768,000 over the five-year-period. The additional expenses
incurred due to the misappropriation of funds were primarily recorded and
expensed by the Company as selling expenses in the years when the fraudulent
expense claims were submitted by the former employee. The Company has subsequently
recovered $460,000 of the misappropriated funds from insurance and other
sources of which $160,000 was received and recorded in 2004 as a reduction of
selling expenses. The   

55     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

remaining
$300,000 was received and recorded prior to 2004. No other recovery or
restitution possibilities exist.  

   13. Business
Segment Information   

  The presentation of segment information reflects the
manner in which management organizes segments for making operating decisions
and assessing performance.  

  As of December 31,
2005, the Company s operations are conducted principally through three business
segments: Theatre, Lighting and Restaurant. Theatre operations include the
design, manufacture, assembly and sale of motion picture projectors, xenon
lamphouses and power supplies, sound systems, film handling equipment and the
sale of xenon lamps and lenses. The lighting segment operations include the
design, manufacture, assembly and sale of follow spotlights, stationary
searchlights and computer operated lighting systems for the motion picture
production, television, live entertainment, theme parks and architectural
industries. During January 2003, the Company disposed of its remaining
lighting rental operations. The restaurant segment includes the manufacture and
sale of replacement parts and the sale of seasonings, marinades and barbeque
sauces. During 2003, the Company began phasing out its restaurant equipment
product line, which accounted for 47% of total segment sales in 2003. Going
forward, the Company continues to supply parts to its installed equipment
customer base and distributes its  Flavor-Crisp   marinade and breading
products as well as support its  Chicken-On-The-Run  and  BBQ-On-The-Run 
programs. The Company allocates resources to business segments and evaluates the
performance of these segments based upon reported segment gross profit.
However, certain key operations of a particular segment are tracked on the
basis of operating profit. There are no significant intersegment sales. All
intersegment transfers are recorded at historical cost.  

56     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

Summary by Business Segments   

57     

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

Summary
by Geographical Area   

Net revenues by business segment are to unaffiliated
customers. Net sales by geographical area are based on destination of sales.
Identifiable assets by geographical area are based on location of facilities.  

58  

Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

     14.   Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)   

  The
following is a summary of the unaudited quarterly results of operations for
2005 and 2004:  

Earnings per share is computed independently for each
of the quarters. Therefore, the sum of the quarterly earnings per share may not
equal the total for the year.  

59  

Schedule II   

     Ballantyne Of Omaha, Inc.   
and Subsidiaries   
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   

(1)             The deductions from
reserves are net of recoveries. 

  (2)             Excludes charge of
$393,177 relating to potential preferential payment relating to a past customer
bankruptcy which is included as bad debt expense and in accrued liabilities in
the consolidated financial statements. 

  (3)             Excludes recovery of
$291,927 relating to preferential payment claim relating to the past customer bankruptcy
discussed in (2). 

60  

Item 9. Changes in
and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

   None   

      Item 9A. Controls and Procedures    

  The Company carried out an evaluation under the
supervision and with the participation of the Company s management, including
the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s disclosure controls
and procedures pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based
upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures are effective at ensuring that information
required to be disclosed in the reports that the Company files or submits under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended) is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and
forms. There have been no changes in the Company s internal control over financial
reporting during the fourth fiscal quarter for the period covered by this
report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, such internal control over financial reporting.  

      Item 9B. Other Information    

  None  

     PART III   

      Item 10. Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant    

  Incorporated by reference to the Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc.
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 24,
2006.  

      Item 11.  Executive Compensation    

  Incorporated by reference to the Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc.
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 24,
2006.  

      Item 12. Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters    

  Incorporated by reference to the Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc.
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 24,
2006.  

      Item 13. Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions    

  Incorporated by reference to the Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc.
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 24,
2006.    

61     

Item 14. Principal
Accounting Fees and Services    

  Incorporated by reference
to the Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. Proxy Statement For the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held May 24, 2006.  

     PART IV   

        Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    

  a.                     The
following documents are filed as part of this report: 

    1.                   Consolidated
Financial Statements: 

  An Index to the Consolidated Financial Statements is
filed as a part of Item 8.  

  2.     Financial
Statement Schedules:  

  Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts is
included on page 60.  

  Financial Statements of the Registrant s subsidiaries
are omitted because the Registrant is primarily an operating company and the
subsidiaries are wholly-owned.  

  3.     Exhibits See
Exhibit Index on page 64.  

62  

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

  BALLANTYNE
OF OMAHA, INC.  

By: 

/s/ JOHN
  WILMERS  

By:  

/S/ BRAD FRENCH  

John Wilmers,
  President,  

Brad French,
  Secretary/Treasurer and  

Chief Executive
  Officer, and Director  

Chief Financial
  Officer  

Date: March 28, 2006  

Date: March 28, 2006  

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.  

63  

EXHIBIT INDEX   

64     

Name   

Jurisdiction of 
  Incorporation   

a.       

Strong
  Westrex, Inc.  

Nebraska  

b.       

Xenotech Rental Corp.  

Nebraska  

c.       

Design  
  Manufacturing, Inc.  

Nebraska  

d.       

Xenotech Strong, Inc.  

Nebraska  

*         Management contract or
compensatory plan. 

              Filed herewith.  

65  

<EX-23>
 2
 a06-2074_1ex23.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

Exhibit 23   

     Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm   

    The Board of
Directors 
Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc.:  

  We consent to the
incorporation by reference in the registration statement No. 333-116428
on Form S-1, No. 333-116739 on Form S-8, No. 333-03849
on Form S-8, and No. 333-22357 on Form S-3 of
Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. of our report dated March 27, 2006, with
respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005, and
the related financial statement schedule II, which report appears in the December 31,
2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K of Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc.  

   KPMG LLP   

  Omaha, Nebraska 
March  28, 2006  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 3
 a06-2074_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.1   

   CERTIFICATION   

  I, John P. Wilmers, certify that:  

  1.                    I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2005 of Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc.; 

  2.                    Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                    Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                    The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures [as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)] and internal control over financial reporting [as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)] for the
registrant and have: 

  a)                  Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  b)                 Designed such
internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

  c)                  Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures, and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  d)                 Disclosed in this
report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                    The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

  a)                  All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

  b)                 Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial
reporting. 

By:  

/s/ JOHN P. WILMERS  

John P. Wilmers  

President, Chief
  Executive Officer  

March 28, 2006  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 4
 a06-2074_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2   

   CERTIFICATION   

  I, Brad French, certify that:  

  1.                    I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2005 of Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc.; 

  2.                    Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                    Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                    The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures [as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)] and internal control over financial reporting [as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)] for the
registrant and have: 

  a)                  Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  b)                 Designed such
internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

  c)                  Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures, and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  d)                 Disclosed in this
report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                    The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

  a)                  All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

  b)                 Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial
reporting. 

By:  

/s/ BRAD FRENCH  

Brad French  

Chief Financial
  Officer  

March 28, 2006  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 5
 a06-2074_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1   

   CERTIFICATION OF
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted 
Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

  The undersigned, John P. Wilmers, Chief Executive
Officer of Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. (the  Company ), has executed this
certification in connection with the filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2005 (the  Report ).  

  The undersigned
hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to his knowledge that:  

  1.                   The Report fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

  2.                   The information
contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the Company. 

  IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this certification as of the 28th
day of March 2006.  

/S/ JOHN P. WILMERS 

John P. Wilmers  

Chief Executive Officer  

A signed original of this written statement required
by Section 906 has been provided to Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and
will be retained by Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 6
 a06-2074_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.2   

   CERTIFICATION OF
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted 
Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

  The undersigned, Brad J. French, Chief Financial
Officer of Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. (the  Company ), has executed this
certification in connection with the filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2005 (the  Report ).  

  The undersigned
hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to his knowledge that:  

  1.                   TheReport fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

  2.                   The information contained
in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the Company. 

  IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this certification as of the 28th
day of March 2006.  

/S/ BRAD J. FRENCH 

Brad J. French  

Chief Financial Officer  

A signed original of this written statement required
by Section 906 has been provided to Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and
will be retained by Ballantyne of Omaha, Inc. and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

