<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_918580_0001104659-06-021387_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1809443</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>214371</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>22301</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1069353</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>47</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021387.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331171852
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021387
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Gaming Partners International CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000918580
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	GAMES, TOYS & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES (NO DOLLS & BICYCLES) [3944]
		IRS NUMBER:				880310433
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NV
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0531

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-23588
		FILM NUMBER:		06730031

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1700 S INDUSTRIAL ROAD
		CITY:			LAS VEGAS
		STATE:			NV
		ZIP:			89102
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7023842425

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2121 INDUSTRIAL ROAD
		CITY:			LAS VEGAS
		STATE:			NV
		ZIP:			89102

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PAUL SON GAMING CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940203

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GXk8X1Q95KfLqgsUuAb4QzyD53vdYBsJUs9cAcyeVf9MdqYsfPP94qPLW7yGbC9R
 wDuhCJIpPEU2325s0kWORQ==

 0001104659-06-021387.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-7791_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington,
D. C. 20549   

   FORM 10-K   

  (Mark One)  

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION   

   (Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)   

1700 South Industrial Road,
Las Vegas, Nevada 89102   

   (Address of principal executive
offices)   

   Registrant s telephone
number, including area code:  (702) 384-2425   

   Registrant s website:     www.gpigaming.com  

   Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:     None  

   Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:     Common Stock  

  Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.   o   Yes   x   No  

  Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15
(d) of the Act.   o   Yes   x   No  

  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.   x  Yes   o  No  

  Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.   o  

  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (check one):
Large accelerated Filer   o   Accelerated Filer   o   Non-accelerated filer   x     

  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Act).   o   Yes   x   No  

  The aggregate market value
of voting and non-voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30,
2005, based on the closing price as reported on the Nasdaq National Market of
$19.00 per share:    $[48,852,933].    

  The number of shares
outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common stock, as of March 24,
2006, was   7,917,827   shares of Common Stock.  

     Documents Incorporated by
Reference:   

  Portions
of the Registrant s definitive proxy statement to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A within 120 days after Registrant s fiscal year end of December 31,
2005, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.  

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

PART I  

1  

Item 1.   

Business .  

1  

Item
  1.A.   

Risk Factors .  

14  

Item 1.B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments .  

17  

Item 2.   

Properties.   

17  

Item
  3.   

Legal
  Proceedings .  

18  

Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders .  

18  

PART II   

19  

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity and Related
  Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

19  

Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data .  

20  

Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations .  

22  

Item 7A .  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
  Risk .  

36  

Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data .  

37  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

39  

Consolidated Balance Sheets   

40  

Consolidated Statements of Income   

41  

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity and
  Other Comprehensive Income   

42  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    

43  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

44  

Item 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
  Accounting and Financial Disclosure.   

65  

Item 9A.   

Controls and Procedures .  

65  

Item
  9B.   

Other
  Information   

65  

PART III   

65  

Item 10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant .  

65  

Item 11.   

Executive Compensation .  

66  

Item 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
  Management and Related Stockholder Matters .  

66  

Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.   

67  

Item 14.   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services .  

67  

PART IV   

67  

Item 15.   

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules .  

67  

EXHIBIT INDEX   

71  

PART I   

     Item 1.    Business .   

   The following Business section contains
forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual
results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking
statements as a result of certain factors. See Item 1.A.  Risk Factors .   

     Company Overview   

  Effective September 1, 2004, Paul-Son Gaming
Corporation, a Nevada corporation, completed its name change to Gaming Partners
International Corporation, or GPIC. GPIC and each of its subsidiaries are
sometimes collectively referred to herein as the  Company,   us,   we  or  our.   The name change was approved by a vote of
stockholders at the Company s annual meeting held on May 26, 2004. The
Company s established brand names such as Paul-Son , Bourgogne et Grasset ,
or B G, Bud Jones , and T-K , remain unchanged. The Company s
subsidiary, Paul-Son Gaming Supplies, Inc., changed its name to
Gaming Partners International USA, Inc., or GPI-USA. The Company s
subsidiary, Etablissements Bourgogne et Grasset S.A., also changed its name to
Gaming Partners International SAS, or GPI-SAS. The Company s subsidiary,
Paul-Son Mexicana, S.A. de C.V., changed its name, effective as of January 22,
2005, to GPI Mexicana S.A. de C.V., or GPI-Mexico.  

  On September 12, 2002, the businesses of GPIC,
GPI-SAS and GPI-SAS  then wholly-owned subsidiary, The Bud Jones
Company, Inc., or Bud Jones, were combined, with GPI-SAS and Bud
Jones becoming wholly-owned subsidiaries of GPIC, or the Combination. The
Combination was accounted for as a purchase transaction for financial
accounting purposes. Because the former GPI-SAS stockholders owned a
majority of the outstanding GPIC common stock as a result of the Combination,
the Combination was accounted for as a reverse acquisition in which GPI-SAS
was the purchaser of GPIC. On December 31, 2002, Bud Jones merged into GPI-USA,
which was a wholly-owned subsidiary of GPIC and GPI-USA was the surviving
entity. Bud Jones was a gaming supply manufacturing company, which was also headquartered
in Las Vegas. Both former operations (GPI-USA and Bud Jones) were
consolidated into one facility at the Company s headquarters in Las Vegas,
Nevada with the new name of GPI-USA. (See Part II Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note
1.)  

  We believe we are one of the leading manufacturers and
suppliers of casino table game equipment in the world. Our business activities
include the manufacture and/or supply of gaming chips, table layouts, wheels,
playing cards, dice, gaming furniture, and miscellaneous table accessories such
as chip trays, drop boxes and dealing shoes, which are used in conjunction with
casino table games such as blackjack, poker, baccarat, craps and roulette.  

  We are headquartered in Las Vegas, Nevada, with
manufacturing facilities located in Las Vegas, Nevada, San Luis Rio Colorado,
Mexico, and Beaune, France. Our primary sales offices are in Las Vegas, Nevada
and Atlantic City, New Jersey and Gulfport, Mississippi for the United States,
and Beaune, France for the remainder of the world. Through our GPI-USA
subsidiary, we primarily sell our casino products manufactured in North America
to licensed casinos throughout the United States and Canada. Through our GPI-SAS
subsidiary, we primarily sell our European-manufactured casino products and
some North American products to licensed casinos internationally in countries
other than the United States. Our revenues are derived primarily from the sale
of casino table game products to casinos throughout the world. Most of our
products are sold directly to end-users. In some regions of the world, however,
we sell through distributors. We also sell our non-casino poker chips to a
wholesaler in the United States.  

  We manufacture products to meet particular customer
and industry specifications, which may include a wide range of shapes and
sizes, varied color schemes and other graphics, and numerous security and
anti-counterfeit features. The useful lives of our products typically range
from several hours in the case of playing cards and dice, to several months in
the case of layouts, and several years in the case of casino chips and gaming
furniture. As such, our primary business is the ongoing replacement sale of
these products and   

providing initial products
to new casinos. When a new casino opens, we strive to supply most of the
products required to operate the casino s table games. When successful,
revenues are generated both from the initial sale to the new casino and on a
continuing basis as the new casino becomes part of our primary customer base.  

  GPI-USA was founded
in 1963 by our former Chairman, Paul S. Endy, Jr., and initially
manufactured and sold dice to casinos in Las Vegas. The former Bud Jones
Company was founded in 1963 by Bud Jones and this entity eventually merged into
GPI-USA, formerly Paul-Son Gaming Supplies, Inc. GPI-SAS
was formed by Mr. Bourgogne and Mr. Grasset in 1923 and became
operational in 1925 in Beaune, France.  

     Product Segments   

  We operate in one
operating segment casino game equipment products in multi-geographic areas. (See
Part II Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements Note 14.)  

     Recent Developments   

  We have demolished the existing building on the
property we purchased adjacent to our Las Vegas Headquarter in April of
2005. We are currently in the process of constructing a paved parking lot while
awaiting the proper permits from the local government authorities. We expect to
have this completed in the second quarter of 2006.  

  In January 2006,
Progressive Gaming International Corporation, a provider of diversified gaming products
and services, granted GPIC the exclusive rights in the U.S. and non-exclusive
rights outside the U.S. to manufacture gaming chips with 13.56 MHz RFID
technology. GPIC has the ability to embed the 13.56 MHz RFID microchip in each
and every one of its popular brands of gaming chips. We offer casinos all of
our gaming chips, plaques and jetons with either this proprietary embedded high
frequency 13.56 MHz RFID microchip or our well known and reliable 125 KHz
RFID microchips and readers, which technology we will support and continue developing
in the future for the casinos particularly interested in
Casino-Currency-Control.  

     Products   

    Gaming Chips    

  We design and manufacture gaming chips, including
casino chips, plaques and jetons (the European equivalent of casino chips) to
meet a variety of customer preferences and specifications, including size,
weight, ability to stack, ease of handling, texture, color, graphics,
durability, security and anti-counterfeit features. Because casino chips,
jetons and plaques, like real currency, are subject to counterfeiting, we
incorporate a variety of custom security and anti-counterfeit features into each
chip. Our most sophisticated anti-counterfeiting feature is a radio frequency
identification device, or  RFID,  which is a microchip that can be embedded in
our gaming chips making them extremely counterfeit resistant.  

  A casino will generally order all of its gaming chips,
including replacement chips after wear and usage, from a single supplier. Accordingly,
we strive to become the original chip supplier to a casino upon its opening. A
new casino order will typically include at least five to seven distinct chip
denominations, colors and styles, ranging in denominations from $0.50 to in
excess of $1 million. Our selling price is variable, based on the
customization, and generally between $0.75 and $2.00 per chip in the USA,
depending upon the specification, quantities, design and security features. A
typical Paulson  brand clay chip with a microchip will sell for less than
approximately $1.90 per chip. Given this relatively low cost and a gaming chip s
expected lifespan of five or more years, we believe that competition is
generally based upon factors   

2     

other than price. In 2005,
we sold and manufactured approximately 20 million gaming chips, including
casino chips, plaques and jetons.  

  Gaming chips can be
divided into three basic families:  (a) European-style
jetons and plaques; (b) American-style casino chips; and (c) commemorative
chips. Jetons, plaques and all casino chips can also be manufactured with an
embedded RFID microchip. Casino chips accounted for approximately 66% of total
sales in 2005.  

   European-style
Jetons and Plaques   

  Jetons and plaques are
European-style casino chips. Our jetons and plaques are manufactured by GPI-SAS
at our facility in France. Jetons are circular with standard diameters in 13
different sizes, ranging from 32 mm to 60 mm. Plaques are rectangular, square
or oval with standard sizes ranging from 30 mm x 30 mm to 151 mm
x 105 mm. Jetons and plaques are used mainly for traditional European
games and also extensively in Asian countries. Jetons and plaques are made of
laminated cellulose acetate with a very large range of colors, shapes and
security and anti-counterfeit components, such as, UV print, number
serialization, laser print or  LaserLock , gold lace material and RFID
technology. GPI-SAS created its original product line in 1925 and has
held a leading position in this market since that time. Our production capacity
in France for European-style jetons and plaques is approximately five million
chips, considering the use of three shifts.  

   American-style
Casino Chips   

  Casino chips are
used worldwide for games originating in the United States of America. Originally,
gaming chips in the United States were made of clay and called  clay chips.   Clay was replaced many years ago by plastic
materials. There are currently three main technologies used to produce these
types of chips: injection molding, sublimation and compression molding. We
produce casino chips using all three of these methods. GPI-USA
manufactures our American-style casino chips under our brand names, Paulson 
and Bud Jones , at our facilities in San Luis Rio Colorado, Mexico and in Las
Vegas, Nevada. GPI-SAS also manufactures American style casino chips in Beaune,
France.  

               Injection Molded Chips  .   Plastic
injection molded chips were created in the late 1960 s under the Bud Jones
brand, manufactured in the U.S. Such chips are made with several injection
molded colors, typically with a central metal piece for the weight and printed
decals. There are several standard diameters and a wide range of design and
color combinations. Various security features are used to make the chips
counterfeit resistant, including UV pigments, UV prints, LaserLock, holograms
and RFID technology. The Bud Jones brand offers a wide range of such chips,
made of acrylic with very vivid colors and with ground and smooth surface. Since
1990, the B G brand, which is manufactured in France, has developed a full
line of injection molded chips with designs different from the Bud Jones brand
and using a different type of plastic material with less vivid colors but
requiring no grinding and allowing a rougher surface. A particular line of
injection molded gaming chips specifically designed and sold for optical reading
identification are also manufactured by GPI-SAS. The GPI-USA s and GPI-SAS 
lines of injection-molded chips allow a very good coverage of most casinos 
requirements, which vary greatly around the world. Production capacity for
injection molded chips in the U.S. and France is approximately 12 million,
considering the use of 2-3 shifts. 

3  

Sublimation Chips  .   Sublimation chips
are made of one disc of white plastic material (usually injection molded). The
decor of these chips is traditionally transferred from printed paper to the
plastic material by pressing and heating the printed paper onto the plastic
disc. The printed colors sublimate and go from the paper into the plastic
material. In 1996, GPI-SAS created a new way of manufacturing this type
of casino chip by using a printing technology called  pad printing.   This technology permits simultaneously
printing on the face and the edge of the chip. GPI-SAS holds several
patents and patent applications for this technology, and refers to this casino
chip as  Full Face.   Security features
for sublimation chips include UV pigments and LaserLock. Production capacity at
GPI-SAS is approximately two million chips, considering utilizing three shifts. 

               Compression Molded Chips  .   Compression
molded casino chips are manufactured from a proprietary formulation of more
than 13 raw materials using a compression molding system. Printed decals or
 inlays  are incorporated in the chips during the molding steps. Customized
designs, security and identifying features are incorporated into the chips. GPI-USA
holds a leading market share in compression molded chips, which are similar to
the original clay chips of the past. They have a unique feel and easy handling
and are often referred to as  clay chips.  
Compression molded chips are manufactured under the Paul-Son  brand at
its GPI-Mexico facilities in San Luis Rio Colorado, Mexico. Various
security features are used to make the chips more counterfeit resistant,
including UV pigments, LaserLock, alpha-dot, customized rim and RFID technology.
Our annual production capacity at our Mexico facilities is approximately 20
million compression molded chips (based on a single shift and increased labor
availability). We believe that given our current anticipated production level
of compression molded chips per year, there will be sufficient manufacturing
capacity to meet potential increases in future demand. In 2005, GPI-Mexico
produced approximately 14 million chips. 

   Commemorative Chips   

  Since 1994, GPIC has
marketed chips that commemorate certain types of special events such as title
boxing matches, significant anniversaries and premier entertainment events. Casino
patrons often retain commemorative chips as souvenirs. Casinos benefit to the
extent that casino chips purchased are not redeemed, thereby resulting in added
cash flow to the casino.  

   Gaming Chips with
RFID Microchips and Reading Equipment   

    Need for RFID    

  Gaming chips are the principal currency of each
casino, and each casino has its own unique gaming chips or currency. A gaming
chip that appears or feels or even sounds slightly different than the others
can warrant review by the casino personnel. There are several possible security
and anti-counterfeit features that can be incorporated into the chip material
itself and/or in the chip appearance.  

  The most sophisticated anti-counterfeiting devices are
the microchips or RFID, which can be embedded in gaming chips without modifying
the other appearance or handling characteristics of the chips. These chips are
not only high quality casino gaming chips, but they are also reliable carriers
of the data needed by the casinos to efficiently and securely manage their
table game operations.  

  A sophisticated RFID microchip transponder is embedded
in each gaming chip. Read/write devices manufactured by us communicate quickly
and accurately with a large number of these RFID embedded gaming chips without
human contact. The authenticity and denomination of each chip is established,
and then the data is transferred to the casino information systems.  

  The RFID embedded gaming chips can be read with 100%
accuracy, either one at a time or in large quantities, with the same efficiency
whether in stacks, boxes, trays, cabinets or on the tables. This increases the
security of the chip production, transportation, and utilization.  

4     

Traditional jetons,
plaques and casino chips could not easily and precisely be accounted for by the
casinos and the games that call for them, thus they could not be managed by
casinos as efficiently as slot systems. Casinos have a need for more streamlined
and automated accounting transactions between the pit and cage operations, thus
the RFID solution.  

    RFID Technology    

  Bourgogne   Grasset (now GPI SAS) started
making RFID chips before 1994. Some 10 years ago GPIC and Mikohn Gaming
Corporation, now Progressive Gaming International Corporation, started working
together and selected Philips 125 KHz or low frequency RFID technology as it is
particularly well adapted to the chip security and chip tracking applications.
PGIC developed players tracking applications with this technology. GPIC
acquired the rights to the reader technology from Philips in 2001 and developed
very significantly the reading capabilities of this reader. Ten years ago GPIC
readers could read only stacks of 10 chips, now several hundred of chips in
stacks of 20 can be read in a matter of a few seconds and new improvements are
coming. The 125 KHz Philips RFID microchip used by GPIC is now in its third
generation and a fourth generation is planned.  

  Over the years RFID chips  capabilities went up and
costs came down. The first B G gaming chips with RFID technology that GPI
sold in 1996, were priced above $6.00, more than $4.50 above the regular price
of a gaming chip. Today instead of $4.50, GPIC charges substantially less for
an embedded 125 KHz RFID microchip transponder in a Paulson chip, programming
and royalty included. In parallel, the prices of the readers went down while
their capabilities increased.  

  Over the last few years, GPIC has sold several million
RFID chips and hundreds of readers mainly for chip tracking and chip security
to casinos all over the world, including the U.S. GPIC holds several
international patents related to the embedding process of an RFID microchip
into a gaming chip, a jeton or a plaque and an exclusive license on two patents
owned jointly by IGT and Shuffle Master to make and sell RFID chips in the U.S.
Our patents and exclusive license apply to all RFID frequencies.  

  In 2003, PGIC started developing new player tracking
systems based on the higher frequency 13.56 MHz RFID microchips and readers
developed by an Australian company called Magellan. PGIC has an exclusive
agreement with Magellan for all gaming applications of these 13.56 MHz RFID
microchips and readers. As casinos have expressed an interest in PGIC s
project, we developed efficient ways to embed this 13.56 MHz RFID tag in all
well known and widely accepted B G, Paulson and Bud Jones chips including
B G jetons and plaques. In January 2006, PGIC and GPIC signed an
agreement by which we have the right to buy the 13.56 MHz RFID tags to make
casino chips, exclusive for the U.S. market and non-exclusive for the rest of
the world. Casinos now have the choice between the two RFID technologies:
125 KHz and 13.56 MHz.  

  The RFID chips and readers significantly increase the
casino protection against counterfeit chips. In addition, the RFID chips and
readers, with appropriate software programs, open the door to significant
increases in efficiency and cost savings. Chips can be tracked and accounted
for automatically and reliably everywhere in the casino. With appropriate
systems developed and sold by other companies, players can also be tracked for
more objective comping.  

  As a result of RFID embedded
gaming chips, readers and computer systems, the necessary tools are now
available for the casinos to track their gaming chips and players and to manage
their tables as efficiently as their slots.  

    Dice    

  We manufacture our dice at our GPI-Mexico
facilities, from cellulose acetate specifically formulated to provide the
required clarity, hardness and dimensional stability. All dice are sold
directly by GPI-USA   

5     

to North America and the
Caribbean Islands. GPI-SAS distributes dice to the other parts of the
world. We offer a variety of spot designs, which are inserted in the body of
the dice and machined flat to the surface. We offer two different finishes and
up to two monograms on the dice. A casino may request the imprinting of its
name and logo (in a variety and combination of colors), the insertion of a
hidden security  key,  a special reverse spot, the addition of a security  glow 
spot, the use of LaserLock, the serialization of the dice, or all, or a
combination of, the above.  

  All of our brands of dice are manufactured with a high
degree of accuracy in conformity with the strictest standards of gaming
regulations. Generally, a stick of dice (two and one-half pair) does not remain
in play for more than eight hours on a given table, in a busy casino.  

  The typical sales price of
casino dice currently ranges between approximately $3.00 and $4.00 per pair. We
currently have the capacity to produce approximately 1 million pairs of dice
per year (based upon one production shift) in Mexico. In 2005, we produced
approximately 789,000 pair of dice. We believe our capacity for dice production
is sufficient to accommodate an increase in production requirements.  

    Table Layouts    

  Every gaming table is covered with a layout printed
with patterns particular to each specific game, as well as multi-colored logos
and other markings according to individual casino preferences. GPI-USA
has developed a comprehensive range of different quality layouts and various
printing processes. GPI-USA manufactures Paulson    
felt and synthetic layouts made of FX    material for which
GPI-USA holds an exclusivity of supply in the U.S., as well as full graphic
layouts. We have a creative art department that can design any specific layout
to meet the casino needs. 

  We believe we are a leading manufacturer of layouts in
the United States, utilizing high quality cloths, enhanced graphics, and
proprietary dye formulations which we believe result in the widest variety of
customized colors. Since 2000, when we acquired certain patent rights covering
methodology and processes relating to the screening of inks on synthetic cloth
for casino tabletop layouts, we have also offered synthetic layouts in a wide
variety of colors and customer preferences. The patent rights have a remaining
duration of 10 years and enable us to provide a full line of table game
supplies and equipment.  

  We typically install layouts on new gaming tables
prior to delivery to a casino. The table layouts are replaced by casinos on a
regular basis, in order to maintain their appearance, which is generally within
60 to 150 days. Layouts typically sell in a price range of approximately $100
to $300 in the United States, depending on the type of table, the complexity of
the patterns and the variety and difficulty of color combinations.  

  We primarily sell our
layouts manufactured from our Mexico facilities and occasionally, in Las Vegas;
we also may sell a small quantity of full graphic sublimation layouts using an
outside vendor. Our layout production capacity is approximately 24,000 felt
layouts and approximately 20,000 synthetic layouts per year. In fiscal 2005, we
produced approximately 29,000 layouts, of which approximately 14,000 were felt
and 15,000 were synthetic. We believe the capacity of our layout production
facilities in Mexico will allow us to increase layout production as needed.  

    Playing Cards    

  We manufacture and sell our own line of paper casino
playing cards under the Paulson    
brand. A deck of cards typically sells to casinos within a price range of
approximately $0.80 and $1.50 and, based on casino industry practices, is
generally replaced every eight hours or less. A casino typically enters into a
one or two year purchase commitment with a supplier to supply its cards at
regular intervals, generally monthly. Casinos occasionally purchase cards from
more than one supplier, as casino floor managers often have preferences for a
particular type of card. Our cards are compatible with all card shufflers. 

6     

Given our relatively low market share of the playing
cards market, our established distribution system for table game supplies and
our low cost manufacturing facilities, we believe that playing cards represent
a reasonable growth opportunity for us.  

  We produce all of our playing cards in our GPI-Mexico
facilities. We purchased and leased additional equipment in fiscal 1999 to
increase our production capacity to satisfy the marketplace. The appropriate
marketing approach will permit management to offer better customer service to
selected clients, providing a better return to us. In 2005, the Company
produced approximately 4 million decks of playing cards.  

  Traditionally, the
California card room market prefers the plastic playing cards while the
traditional hotel-casino markets generally prefer the paper cards. Our
capacity, assuming a single shift, is approximately 8 million decks per year.  

    Wheels    

  GPI-SAS manufactures American and French
roulette wheels in Beaune, France and sells them primarily in Europe and in
certain United States and Canadian-based jurisdictions where GPI-SAS is
licensed (such as New Jersey, Washington State and Mississippi). Production in
France consists in designing and assembling the different parts produced by
very specialized sub-contractors. In 2005, France produced and sold
approximately 100 roulette wheels mostly in Europe. Our capacity is
approximately 300 wheels.  

  Until the Combination, the
former two U.S. companies, Paul-Son and Bud Jones, manufactured roulette wheels
and  Big Six  wheels in their plants in Las Vegas. In October 2000 and September 2002,
respectively, the former Bud Jones and the former Paul-Son administratively and
voluntarily surrendered their Nevada gaming manufacturer and distributor
licenses due to excessive license costs, and were no longer permitted to
assemble or manufacture wheels in Nevada or sell wheels from Nevada. On November 18,
2004, the Nevada Gaming Commission granted GPI-SAS and GPI-USA
approval, by way of transactional waivers, to manufacture and distribute
roulette wheels to Nevada casinos. Also as a result of this ruling, both
companies may service roulette wheels for refurbishment.  

    Gaming Furniture    

  We sell a variety of
casino gaming furniture, including tables and seating. Tables range in price
from approximately $1,500 for a blackjack table to approximately $3,000 for a
roulette table (excluding the roulette wheel) and up to approximately $5,000
for a craps game table. We offer a  Premier  line of gaming furniture and a  Select 
line in response to the industry s demand for a lower priced, quality line of
blackjack tables. We believe the  Select  line enables us to compete with the
price structure of our competitors while maintaining our quality standards. We
vigorously pursue gaming table sales because the sale of a gaming table will
generally bolster our ability to sell gaming chips and consumable products such
as layouts, dice, cards, and other accessories to the table purchasers. Prior
to 2000, we purchased our gaming tables from a third party and subsequently we
began manufacturing our own table game furniture components in our Mexico
facility. Tables are assembled by us in Mexico and completed by adding the felt
layout, drop boxes, trays and other table accessories in Las Vegas. Table game
seating is produced by nonaffiliated manufacturers and distributed by us. We
have seen a growth in our sales of gaming furniture due to the openings and expansions
of new poker rooms. In 2005, GPI-Mexico produced approximately 2,300 tables. GPI-SAS
also manufactures a variety of casino gaming furniture, including tables
(blackjack, roulette, etc.) in Beaune, France.  

    Table Accessories and Other Products    

  In order to offer our customers a full product line,
we sell a number of ancillary casino table game products, which we typically do
not manufacture. We have expanded our manufacturing of certain plastic   

7     

products, including
dealing shoes in our Mexicana facility. Ancillary products include plastic
money paddles, discard holders, drop boxes, dealing shoes, trays and covers,
dice sticks and on/off pucks. These products are generally sold in conjunction
with the sale of gaming tables and tend to have long useful lives. In 2005,
GPI-Mexico produced approximately 11,000 ancillary products and sold in
conjunction with our gaming furniture.  

  We also sell an air
ventilation device specifically for gaming tables called the Air-Rail    
System. This ventilation system creates a positive flow of air at the gaming
table, which pushes smoke away from the dealer and assists nonsmokers in
contending with secondhand smoke. Small air vent devices secured underneath the
table draw smoke from the surface and recycle it, dispensing the air outward
where the casino s primary ventilation systems can distribute it. By filtering
and dispersing the smoke-filled air, the Air-Rail System makes the casino s
primary air circulation systems perform more efficiently and improves the
comfort of the nonsmoking casino dealers and patrons. In March 2005, we
purchased four patents, including one for the Air-Rail System. 

     Sales, Advertising and Promotion   

  We generally distribute our products in the United
States, North America and the Caribbean Islands through our six-person     sales force, which primarily operates out of regional
offices in Las Vegas, Nevada, Atlantic City, New Jersey and Gulfport,
Mississippi. We generally distribute our products in the international market
through our four-person sales force, which operates out of our Beaune, France
office.  

  We believe that the long-standing customer
relationships, which have been developed over the years by our individual sales
representatives, as well as our reputation for quality, reliability and
security features, are key factors upon which we successfully compete in the
market place. Experience, production, flexibility, service and a wide range of
products are the keys to selling customized products and position ourselves as
the casino partners for the table operations. When direct selling is not
feasible because of local conditions, we may enter into agreements with
carefully selected local distributors. But, even in this case, we always
maintain direct contact with the end clients.  

  We place advertising in trade publications and
participate in major casino industry trade shows. We keep abreast of new casino
openings through personal contact with casino management, legislative and trade
publications and wire service press releases. When new casinos are identified,
our representatives make personal contact with appropriate officers and/or
purchasing agents in order to solicit the sale of our products to such
potential new customers.  

  Our experience has been
that once a casino buys from a table game supplier, it tends to purchase
replacement products from the same supplier, provided that the quality, service
and competitive pricing on the products are maintained. As a result, our sales
efforts are primarily focused on selling and promoting a wide range of table gaming
products to casinos while they are in the development and licensing stage. By
thereafter maintaining a frequent contact program, we seek to realize a
steadily increasing base of recurring sales for our consumable products such as
layouts, dice and cards, while capturing incremental sales to new casinos.  

     Materials, Supplies and Backlog   

  We maintain good relationships with our suppliers and
have, where possible, diversified our supplier base so as to avoid a disruption
of supply. However, some key raw materials for our principal products have
unique suppliers. In most other cases, our raw materials are staple goods, such
as paper, plastic, wood, and felt and synthetic fabric, which are readily
available from several suppliers. We believe that our practice of purchasing
from diversified sources minimizes the risk of interrupting the supply of raw
materials.  

8     

Our backlog of production
orders amounted to approximately $4.5 million for the U.S. and $21.2 million
for our France operation as of December 31, 2005. At December 31,
2004, our backlog was approximately $4.5 million for the U.S. and $10.0 million
for our France operation. We believe that all of our backlog will be filled in
2006.  

     Competition   

  There are a number of companies that compete with us
in the sale of each of our product lines:  

    Gaming
Chips.      The gaming chip product line has in
recent years become an increasingly competitive area of the gaming supply
business. Currently, our major competitors and their respective locations are
Chipco International Ltd. and RT Plastics in the United States, Abbiati in
Italy, Dolphin in Australia, Matsui Gaming Machines in Japan and other local
manufacturers in each jurisdiction. We believe key competitive factors for
gaming chip sales are: well established product and process security, respect
of players  and dealers  habits, attractiveness, durability, quality of service
and price. 

    Table
Layouts.      Our primary competitors for casino
table layouts are Midwest Game Supply Co. and Gemaco Playing Card Co. in the
United States, and TCS/John Huxley in the United Kingdom. We believe the key
competitive factors for table layout sales are cloth quality, durability,
printing processes and price. 

    Playing
Cards.          Our major competitors in the
domestic playing card market are The U.S. Playing Card Co. and Gemaco
Playing Card Co. Our major competitors internationally are Angel Cards in
Japan, primarily servicing the Asian market, and Carta Mundi in Belgium,
primarily servicing the European market. We believe the primary competitive
factors for playing cards are price, intrinsic characteristics (snap memory,
ease of handling, etc.), security, quality control, brand name identification,
process security and reputation. 

    Gaming
Furniture.          Our principal competitors for
casino gaming furniture are TCS/John Huxley in the United Kingdom and
Abbiati in Italy and smaller regional wood shops in certain geographic areas.
Competition is based on product ranges, quality service, industry know how, and
price. 

    Dice.          Our
principal competitor for domestic casino dice sales is Midwest Game
Supply Co. There is no significant market internationally for casino dice. We
believe the primary competitive factors for dice sales are quality of the
product and services and pricing. In addition, casino shift managers typically
prefer that casinos purchase dice from more than one supplier due to industry
superstition that dice from one of its suppliers may run  cold  for the house
from time to time. 

    Table
Accessories and Other Products.          Our principal competitors for
distributing table accessories and other products, which include drop
boxes, dealing shoes, chip trays and chip bank covers, foot rails are several
local vendors. We believe that key competitive factors for these products are
the ability to be a single source supplier, service, convenient locations, and
product quality. 

9  

Intellectual Property   

  We have a portfolio of
registered service marks, trademarks and logos, exclusive patent rights, and
patents that provide us with a competitive advantage, fostering future
profitability and growth. The logos and trademarks include, but are not limited
to:  Gaming Partners International    , 
 GPI,   Paulson ,   Bud Jones   ,   Smartchips ,   Chipsoft , 
 SafeChip ,   Bourgogne et Grasset   ,   BG   , 
 Paulson FX   ,   Paul-Son Gaming ,   Air-Rail   , 
and  TK .   We also retain an exclusive
license to manufacture and sell gaming chips with embedded RFID microchips in
the United States until 2015. We believe that our trademarks, logos and patent
rights are valuable to the operation of our Company and are important to our
marketing strategy. Our policy is to actively pursue and maintain registration
of our trademarks and logos where our business strategy requires us to do so
and to oppose vigorously any infringement or dilution of our trademarks, logos
or patent rights. However, we cannot predict whether steps taken by us to
protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of
these rights or the use by others. It may be difficult for us to prevent others
from copying elements of our concepts, or our trade secrets, and any litigation
to enforce our rights will likely involve significant costs. 

     Environmental Matters   

  We believe we are in compliance with international,
federal, state and local laws and regulations that have been enacted or adopted
relating to the protection of the environment. The liability for environmental
remediation or costs will be accrued by us when or if it is considered probable
and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The parcel of land that we purchased
in the second quarter of 2005 contained a building that has been demolished as
we plan to use the land primarily for parking. There is currently no violation
of law and we plan on completing the parking lot construction in accordance
with all local laws and regulations.  

     Employees   

  At February 28, 2006,
we employed approximately 870 persons. Approximately 450 of the employees were
located at our Mexico facilities, approximately 320 employees were located in
our Beaune, France facility and the remainder were located primarily in Las
Vegas, Nevada and Atlantic City, New Jersey. None of our employees are covered
by collective bargaining agreements and we believe that our relations with our
employees are good.  

     Regulation and Licensing   

   General Gaming
Regulation   

  The
gaming operations of each of our subsidiaries are subject to extensive
regulation, and each of our subsidiaries hold registrations, approvals, gaming
licenses or permits in each jurisdiction in which it operates gaming activities.
A list of the geographical locations of the jurisdictions in which we, through
our subsidiaries, are subject to licensing and/or regulatory control of the
gaming authorities is set forth below.   

Gaming Jurisdictions   

Arizona  

New York  

California  

North Carolina  

Colorado  

North Dakota  

Connecticut  

Oklahoma  

Florida  

Oregon  

Illinois  

South Dakota  

Indiana  

Washington  

Iowa  

Wisconsin  

Kansas  

Australia  

10     

Louisiana  

Puerto Rico  

Michigan  

Nova Scotia, Canada  

Minnesota  

Ontario, Canada  

Mississippi  

Manitoba, Canada  

Missouri  

Saskatchewan, Canada  

Montana  

Quebec, Canada  

Nevada  

British Columbia, Canada  

New Jersey  

Alberta, Canada  

New Mexico  

Republic of Panama  

While the regulatory requirements vary from
jurisdiction to jurisdiction, most require licenses, permits, findings of
suitability, documentation of qualification including evidence of financial
stability and/or other required approvals for companies who manufacture and
distribute gaming equipment, as well as the individual suitability of officers,
directors, major stockholders and key employees. Under the various gaming
regulations, key personnel generally include the current and/or proposed
corporate officers and directors of a corporation and its subsidiaries. Laws of
the various gaming regulatory agencies are generally intended to protect the
public and ensure that gaming related activity is conducted honestly,
competitively, and free of corruption.  

  Various gaming regulatory
agencies have issued licenses allowing our wholly owned subsidiaries to
manufacture and/or distribute our products. Our subsidiaries and their key
personnel, as applicable, have obtained or applied for all government licenses,
permits, registrations, findings of suitability and approvals necessary
allowing for the manufacture and distribution of gaming supplies and equipment
in the jurisdictions where it is required. These companies have never been
denied a gaming related license, nor have any licenses been suspended or
revoked.  

   Nevada Gaming
Regulation   

  The manufacture and distribution of gaming equipment
in Nevada are subject to extensive state and local regulation. Our operations
were subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming
Commission, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and various local regulatory
agencies, or the Nevada Gaming Authorities, due to our prior manufacture of
roulette wheels and Big Six wheels, which are considered gaming devices.  

  The complex regulatory scheme governing the licensing
of gaming device manufacturers and distributors in Nevada imposed
administrative burdens which far exceed those of most other gaming
jurisdictions when applied to our new combined corporate structure and our
foreign stockholders. From the time of the Combination and up to mid-2004,
in the opinion of our management, the anticipated time and expense of a foreign
investigation that would be conducted by the Nevada Gaming Authorities would far
outweigh any benefit to be gained by maintaining licensure in Nevada. Specifically,
based upon an analysis of three factors: the potential market for our roulette
and Big Six wheels in Nevada; the benefits gained through our choice of
corporate structure; and the administrative costs associated with compliance
with certain requirements of the Nevada Gaming Authorities, we concluded that
the costs of maintaining licensure in Nevada upon the completion of the
Combination significantly exceeded our potential profits. We thus
administratively and voluntarily surrendered the Nevada gaming licenses of the
former Paul-Son Gaming Supplies, Inc. upon the completion of the
Combination, a procedure that allowed us to forego licensure in Nevada without
impacting its licensure in other gaming jurisdictions or its ability to
continue to manufacture roulette wheels and Big Six wheels in and for other
jurisdictions. The above license surrender did not impact the manufacture or
sale of our other products in Nevada.  

  In mid-2004, however, with the construction of
new casino properties in Nevada on the horizon, the Company applied to the
Nevada Gaming Authorities for certain exemptions from provisions of the Nevada   

11     

gaming laws and for the
limited licensure of GPI-USA and GPI-SAS to manufacture and
distribute roulette wheels in Nevada. Company research showed that no current
licensed manufacturers or distributors in Nevada were actively in the business
of manufacturing or selling roulette wheels and it was anticipated that Nevada
casino operators were in need of a source for such products.  

  By Nevada State Gaming
Commission Order entered November 18, 2004, GPIC was exempted from
registration as a publicly traded corporation and GPI-USA and GPIS-SAS
were each licensed as manufacturers and distributors strictly limited to the
manufacture, distribution and service of roulette wheels in Nevada, and subject
to administrative approval prior to the distribution of any roulette wheel and
further subject to specified conditions set forth in the Order, including but
not limited to the filing of periodic reports with and notifications to Nevada
Gaming Authorities. The result of this Order is to grant GPI-USA and GPI-SAS
transactional waivers so that they may manufacture roulette wheels for sale to
Nevada casino licensees. The waivers granted were specifically found by the
Nevada State Gaming Commission to be consistent with the policies set forth for
in the Nevada gaming laws. These waivers may, however, be withdrawn by the
Nevada State Gaming Control Board for any cause deemed reasonable. Upon such
withdrawal, the Company would be subject to full registration and licensing.  

   New Jersey Gaming
Regulation   

  Our subsidiaries are currently required to be licensed
under the New Jersey Casino Control Act, or the New Jersey Act, as casino
service industries qualified to manufacture and sell gaming-related products to
casinos in New Jersey. As part of such licensure, parent companies, holding
companies and certain officers and directors of the companies are required to
be found suitable by the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, or the New
Jersey Commission. The sale and distribution of gaming equipment to casinos in
New Jersey is also subject to the New Jersey Act and the regulations
promulgated thereunder by the New Jersey Commission. The New Jersey Commission
has broad discretion in promulgating and interpreting regulations under the New
Jersey Act. Amendments and supplements to the New Jersey Act, if any, may be of
a material nature, and accordingly may adversely affect the ability of a
company or its employees to obtain any required licenses, permits and approvals
from the New Jersey Commission, or any renewals thereof. The current
regulations govern licensing requirements, standards for qualification, persons
required to be qualified, disqualification criteria, competition, investigation
of supplementary information, duration of licenses, record keeping, causes for
suspension, standards for renewals or revocation of licenses, equal employment
opportunity requirements, fees and exemptions. In deciding to grant a license,
the New Jersey Commission may consider, among other things, the financial
stability, integrity, responsibility, good character, and reputation for
honesty, business ability and experience of the applicant and its directors,
officers, management and supervisory personnel, principal employees and
stockholders as well as the adequacy of the financial resources of the
applicant. New Jersey licenses are granted for a period of three or four years,
depending on the length of time a company has been licensed, and if they are
renewable. The New Jersey Commission may impose such conditions upon licensing,
as it deems appropriate. These include the ability of the New Jersey Commission
to require the applicant or licensee to report the names of all of its
stockholders as well as the ability to require any stockholders whom the New
Jersey Commission finds not qualified to dispose of the stock, not receive
dividends, not exercise any rights conferred by the shares, nor receive any
remuneration from the licensee for services rendered or otherwise. Failure of
such stockholder to dispose of such stockholder s stock could result in the
loss of the license. Licenses are also subject to suspension, revocation or
refusal for sufficient cause, including the violation of any law. In addition,
licensees are also subject to monetary penalties for violations of the New
Jersey Act or the regulations of the New Jersey Commission.  

  Our new combined structure
required that each subsidiary company submit a new application for licensure. Upon
a satisfactory initial background investigation, each company as necessary has
obtained transactional waiver approval from the New Jersey Commission to engage
in specific transactions with   

12     

New
Jersey casinos pending the outcome of the complete investigation of each
subsidiary s respective license application.  

   Other Gaming
Jurisdictions   

  In addition to New Jersey, our subsidiaries are
currently licensed in a number of other jurisdictions. Although the regulations
in these jurisdictions are not identical to the states of Nevada or New Jersey,
their material attributes are substantially similar, and are summarized below.  

  The manufacture, sale and
distribution of gaming supplies in each jurisdiction are subject to various
state, county and/or municipal laws, regulations and ordinances, which are
administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in that jurisdiction.
These laws, regulations and ordinances primarily concern the responsibility,
financial stability and character of gaming supply and equipment owners,
distributors, sellers and operators, as well as persons financially interested
or involved in gaming or liquor operations. In many jurisdictions, selling or
distributing gaming supplies may not be conducted unless proper licenses are
obtained. An application for a license may be denied for any cause which the
gaming regulators deem reasonable. In order to ensure the integrity of
manufacturers and distributors of gaming supplies, most jurisdictions have the
authority to conduct background investigations of a company, its key personnel
and significant stockholders. The gaming regulators may at any time revoke,
suspend, condition, limit or restrict a license for any cause deemed reasonable
by the gaming regulators. Fines for violation of gaming laws or regulations may
be levied against the holder of a license and persons involved. Our
subsidiaries and their respective key personnel have obtained all licenses
necessary for the conduct of their respective business in the jurisdictions in
which they sell and distribute gaming equipment and supplies. Suspension or
revocation of such licenses could have a material adverse effect on our
operations.  

   Federal Gaming
Registration   

  The Federal Gambling
Devices Act of 1962, or the Federal Act, makes it unlawful for a person to
manufacture, transport, or receive gaming machines, gaming devices (including
roulette wheels) or components across interstate lines unless that person has
first registered with the Attorney General of the U.S. Department of Justice. In
addition, the Federal Act imposes gambling device identification and record
keeping requirements. Violation of the Federal Act may result in seizure and
forfeiture of the equipment, as well as other penalties. Our subsidiaries,
which are involved in the manufacture and transportation of gaming devices, are
required to register annually.  

   Native American
Gaming Regulation   

  Gaming on Native American
lands is governed by federal law, tribal-state compacts, and tribal gaming
regulations. The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, or the IGRA, provides
the framework for federal and state control over all gaming on Native American
lands and is administered by the National Indian Gaming Commission and the Secretary
of the U.S. Department of the Interior. The IGRA requires that a tribe and the
state in which the tribe is located enter into a written agreement, a
tribal-state compact, which governs the terms of the gaming activities. Tribal-state
compacts vary from state-to-state and in many cases require equipment
manufacturers and/or distributors to meet ongoing registration and licensing
requirements. In addition, tribal gaming commissions have been established by
many Native American tribes to regulate gaming related activity on Indian lands.
Our subsidiaries manufacture and distribute gaming supplies to Native American
tribes who have negotiated compacts with their respective states and have
received federal approval. Currently, GPI-USA is authorized to sell
products to Native American casinos in seventeen states and GPI-SAS is
authorized to sell products to Native American casinos in five states.  

13     

International
Gaming Regulation   

  Certain foreign countries
permit the importation, sale and operation of gaming supplies in casino and
non-casino environments. Certain jurisdictions require the licensing of
manufacturers and distributors of gaming supplies. We and our subsidiaries
manufacture and/or distribute gaming supplies to various international markets
including Australia, the Caribbean, Canada, and other foreign countries. We
have obtained the required licenses to manufacture and distribute our products
in the various foreign jurisdictions where we do business.  

  While the regulatory
requirements vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, most require licenses,
permits, findings of suitability, documentation of qualification including
evidence of financial stability and/or other required approvals for companies
who manufacture and distribute gaming equipment, as well as the individual
suitability of officers, directors, major stockholders and key employees. Under
the various gaming regulations, key personnel generally include the current
and/or proposed corporate officers and directors of a corporation and its
subsidiaries. Laws of the various gaming regulatory agencies are generally
intended to protect the public and ensure that gaming related activity is
conducted honestly, competitively, and free of corruption.  

     Financial
Information About Geographic Areas   

  See Part II-Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 14 for
certain financial information by geographic area.  

     Available Information   

  Our
current website is   www.gpigaming.com.   There we make
available, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and, if applicable, any amendments to
those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
furnish it to, the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of
this or any other report we file or furnish to the SEC. You may also submit
written information requests by mail to: 
Gaming Partners International Corporation, 1700 Industrial Road, Las
Vegas, Nevada 89102, Attn:  Investor
Relations.  

     Item 1.A.                  Risk
Factors.  

  Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
we make some forward-looking statements, which do not relate to historical or
current facts, but are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to
analyses and other information based on forecasts of future results and
estimates of amounts not yet determinable that, while considered reasonable by
us, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive
risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control and are subject
to change. The statements also relate to our future prospects and anticipate performance,
development and business strategies. These statements are identified by their
use of terms and phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, would, estimate,
expect, intend, may, plan, predict, project, pursue, will, continue, feel, or
the negative or other variations thereof, and other similar terms and phrases,
including references to assumptions.  

  Although we believe that the expectations reflected in
any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could
differ materially from those expressed or implied. Our future financial
condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements,
are subject to change and to inherent known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update our forward-looking
statements to reflect future events or circumstances.  

14     

We urge you to carefully
review the following discussion of the specific risks and uncertainties that
affect our business. These include, but are not limited to, the following:  

   Demand for our
products would be adversely affected by:   

              a
lack of acceptance of our RFID technology; 

              a
reduction in the growth rate of new and existing casinos and markets,
particularly in Asia; 

              delays
of scheduled openings of newly constructed or planned casinos; and 

              a
decline in the public acceptance of gaming. 

   Our intellectual
property rights are subject to risks, including:   

              development
of new proprietary technologies that could be applied by our competitors to make
our products obsolete or less desirable; 

              potential
inability to obtain, maintain and defend patents, trademarks, copyrights and
trade secrets to protect our newly developed products and technology; 

              competitors 
infringement upon our existing trademarks, patents, trade secrets copyrights; 

              costs
in defending our intellectual property rights against unexpected claims; 

              approval
of competitors  patent applications that may restrict our ability to compete
effectively; 

              successful
challenge of the patents underlying our exclusive license in the U.S. regarding
our RFID embedded gaming chips; and 

              ineffective
or lack of enforcement of patents by our licensors. 

   Our business is
vulnerable to changing economic conditions, including:   

              uncertainties
related to changing economic conditions including those that affect the
relative health of the gaming industry; 

              higher
than anticipated manufacturing, selling, administrative, legal and/or
distribution costs; 

              unfavorable
changes in United States or foreign state or federal taxation laws or
application of such laws that could reduce our profitability; 

              political
or economic instability in international markets; particularly those where we
have higher sales concentrations and growth; 

              changes
in interest rates causing a reduction of investment income or in the value of
market rate sensitive instruments; 

              fluctuations
in foreign exchange rates, tariffs and other trade barriers; 

              an
inability to effectively hedge our foreign currency exposures; and 

              consolidations
within the casino industry. 

   We operate in a highly regulated industry and our
ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions could be adversely
affected by:   

              unfavorable
public referendums or anti-gaming legislation, especially in other countries; 

              unfavorable
legislation affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators, such as
referendums to increase taxes on gaming revenues; 

15  

adverse
changes in or findings of non-compliance with applicable governmental gaming
regulations; 

              delays
in approvals from regulatory agencies; 

              a
limitation, conditioning, suspension or revocation of any of our gaming
licenses; and 

              unfavorable
determinations or challenges of suitability by gaming regulatory authorities
with respect to our officers, directors or key employees. 

   Our success in the gaming industry depends in part on
our ability to develop innovative products and would be adversely affected by:   

              the
development of competing new technologies, making ours obsolete or undesirable; 

              a
decline in the popularity of our gaming products with players and casinos; 

              a
lack of success in developing or adequately servicing new products, in particular
our products with security features; 

              failure
of the casino industry to accept RFID technology with respect to gaming chips
and readers; and/or the 125 KHz or the 13.56 MHz RFID technologies in
particular; and 

              an
increase in the popularity of competitors  products. 

    Investors
cannot exercise control over our Company as a result of principal stockholders 
ownership due to:    

              the
current executive officers and directors of our Company beneficially own
approximately 68.0% of our outstanding common stock as of March 21, 2006. As
a result, the executive officers and directors of our Company can control the
management and affairs of our Company and all matters requiring stockholder
approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate
transactions; 

              this
concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a
change in control of our Company, even when such change of control is in the
best interests of stockholders; and 

              this concentration of
ownership also might adversely affect the market price of the common stock and
the voting and other rights of our Company s other stockholders. 

   Our outstanding
debt obligations subject us to certain additional risks, including:   

              increasing
our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 

              limiting
our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital,
capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; 

              requiring
a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations for the payment of
interest on our indebtedness and reducing our ability to use our cash flows to
fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate
requirements; 

              limiting
our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or business and the
industry; and 

              creating a disadvantage to
us compared to competitors with less indebtedness. 

16     

We are subject to
risk related to our combination with GPI-SAS, including:   

              difficulty
in moving cash between GPI-SAS and GPI-USA, primarily due to negative tax
consequences; and 

              volatility in our
intercompany international operations. 

   Our business
operations are subject to other risks, including:   

               the limited or unique 
suppliers for certain key raw materials for significant products; 

              the
loss or retirement of our key executives of other key employees; 

              adverse
changes in the creditworthiness of parties with whom we have receivables; 

              issuance
of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that
this will occur; 

              the
discovery of facts with respect to legal actions pending against us not
presently known to us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of
fact which do not accord with our evaluation of the possible liability or outcome
of existing litigation; 

              increased
costs due to reliance on third party suppliers and contract manufacturers; 

              casualty
theft or loss of our gaming chips, prior to delivery to casinos; 

              agreements
with casinos in Native American jurisdictions which may subject us to sovereign
immunity risk; 

              natural
disasters, pandemic illnesses, travel or tourism decline risks, increased fuel
prices, other travel limitations, or acts of God that are concentrated in major
gambling locations; 

              acts
of war, potential domestic or international terrorist incidents; and 

              any
failures, difficulties or significant delays in implementing or maintaining our
computer information systems could result in material adverse consequences to
our business, including disruption of operations, loss of information and
unanticipated increases in costs. 

  In addition to the risks
above, new legislation or regulations requiring more stringent corporate
governance and financial reporting standards have led and will continue to lead
to an increase in our costs of compliance. Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require us to include an internal control
report of management in our 2007 and post-2007 Annual Reports on Form 10-K.
While we intend to fully comply with these new laws and regulations, a failure
to comply may impact market perception of our financial condition and could
materially harm our business and operating results.  

     Item 1.B.                 Unresolved
Staff Comments . 

  Not applicable.  

     Item 2.                             Properties . 

  We are based in, and operate domestically from,
company-owned facilities in Las Vegas, Nevada, and internationally from Beaune,
France. We currently assemble and manufacture our primary products at
facilities in Las Vegas, Nevada, San Luis Rio Colorado, Mexico and Beaune,
France. We also lease sales offices in Atlantic City, New Jersey and Gulfport,
Mississippi.  

    Las
Vegas, Nevada.         Our Las Vegas headquarters are located in an
approximately 60,000 square foot building. Our Las Vegas headquarters was
purchased in September 1995 for approximately $2,000,000.     

17     

This facility houses the Las Vegas sales and corporate
offices, including a centralized warehouse for certain of our finished goods
inventory, several manufacturing departments, and a graphics art department. In
our Las Vegas headquarters, we also maintain a certain inventory of templates,
graphic designs, logos, and tools and dies for casino customers  gaming
equipment. Maintaining such an inventory, results in time and cost savings for
product manufacturing and delivery to our customers. Our Las Vegas headquarters
secures a deed of trust issued under our outstanding term loan. In the second
quarter of 2005, we acquired an approximately one acre parcel of land adjacent
to our Las Vegas headquarters for approximately $800,000. We intend to use the
property primarily for additional employee and visitor parking. (See Part
II-Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.)   

    San
Luis Rio Colorado, Mexico.         We manufacture some casino chips, all
playing cards, dice, all plastic products, some layouts and some processes for
tables at two facilities in San Luis Rio Colorado, Mexico. These facilities
include a 34,000 square foot leased facility in which casino chips and dice are
manufactured, 15,000 square feet where layouts are produced and an
approximately 66,000 square foot facility used for playing cards, some woodshop
processes, and layout products production. We own the 66,000 square foot
facility. We lease our main 34,000 square foot facility pursuant to a one-year
lease, which expired on March 31, 2004. In April 2004, we extended the lease
for an additional five years at the same monthly rent amount of approximately
$0.35 per square foot, or $12,000, except that the amount may be prorated,
commensurate with the space we elect to use. Effective March 1, 2006, we
amended our current lease for an additional 17,500 square feet. This extension
has the same five year term at the same monthly rent amount of approximately
$0.35 per square feet, or $6,100. (See Part II-Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes 13 and 16.)    

    Beaune,
France.         We own an approximately 34,000 square foot
manufacturing and administrative facility, in Beaune, France.    On
January 9, 2004, GPI-SAS entered into a 350,000 Euro (or
approximately $447,000 U.S. as of January 9, 2004) loan transaction,
with Banque Nationale de Paris (B.N.P), a French bank, for a building
expansion, which included approximately 3,600 square feet of additional office
and production space and 1,350 square feet of storage space. This expansion was
completed in the third quarter of 2004. 

  On December 22, 2004, we entered into a
construction contract for a 1,600 square foot additional expansion to extend
the Jeton and Plaque Production area. This extension was completed in the third
quarter of 2005. The cost was approximately $320,000, totally paid for out of
our operating funds. In February 2006, we entered into a construction
contract for a 5,400 square foot additional building to be completed in the
third quarter of 2006, to receive the equipment warehouse and the showroom. We
anticipate the cost to be approximately $350,000, to be paid for out of our
operating funds.  

    Facility
Capacity.         With its current approximate 216,000 square
feet as of December 31, 2005, of manufacturing facilities, plus the additional
space of approximately 1,600 square feet, and other anticipated expansion in
2006, resulting from the GPI SAS and GPI USA s building expansions, we believe
that we will have sufficient production capacity to meet anticipated future
demand for all of our products in the United States and abroad.    

     Item 3.                             Legal
Proceedings . 

  See Part II Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note
9. For information regarding legal proceedings.  

     Item 4.                             Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders . 

  No matters were submitted
to a vote of our security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2005.  

18     

PART II   

     Item 5.                           Market
for Registrant s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities  

     Market Information   

  As of March 10, 2005, the Company moved its stock
trading from the NASDAQ SmallCap Market to the NASDAQ National Market, and
continued trading under the symbol  GPIC.  
Prior to the name change on September 1, 2004, the Company s stock
traded under the symbol  PSON.   The following
table sets forth the quarterly high and low closing prices of our common stock
as reported by NASDAQ during the periods indicated. All stock prices reflect a
fiscal year ending December 31. On March 24, 2006, the closing price
was $14.22 per share.  

Holders   

  There were 104 holders of record of our common
stock as of March 24, 2006. We estimate that there are approximately 1,215 beneficial holders of our common
stock based on the proxies distributed in connection with the May 2005
meeting of stockholders.  

     Dividend Policy   

  On November 8, 2005,
the Company s Board of Directors declared a one-time cash dividend of $0.10 per
share paid on December 15, 2005 to shareholders of record at the close of
business on November 21, 2005. The cash was paid from the Company s normal
operations. This was the first time a cash dividend had ever been paid.The Board
of Directors presently does not intend to declare or pay any dividends for the
foreseeable future.  

     Transfer Agent   

  Our stock transfer agent
and registrar is American Stock Transfer   Trust Co., located at 6201
15  th  Avenue,
Brooklyn, New York 11219, and with a phone number of (718) 921-8247. 

     Purchases
of Equity Securities by the Issuer   

  The Company made no
purchase of GPIC equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2005.  

     Unregistered Sales   

  The Company reported
certain unregistered sales of equity securities on Form 8-K,
Item 3.01, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 3,
2005. In addition, on September 12, 2005, GPIC issued an aggregate of
29,500 shares of our common stock as a result of the exercise of antidilution
warrants. The antidilution warrants were granted by us on September 12,
2002 to the former stockholders of GPI-SAS in connection with the combination
transaction between us and GPI-SAS. The former GPI-SAS stockholders were
granted antidilution warrants to purchase an aggregate of 459,610 shares of our

19     

common
stock, which was equal to the amount of options, warrants, convertible
securities and other similar rights to purchase our common stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to the combination transaction. The purpose of
the warrants was to provide antidilution protection to the former GPI-SAS
stockholders in the event that any of such underlying options, warrants,
convertible securities or other similar rights were exercised after the closing
date of the combination transaction. The exercise price of the antidilution
warrants is $0.01 per share. The antidilution warrants were approved by our
stockholders on September 12, 2002, and expire 30 days following the date
on which we notify the warrant holders that the last of the underlying options,
warrants, convertible securities or other similar rights have been exercised,
canceled or terminated. Of the 459,610 antidilution warrants, there were 91,500
warrants exercisable at December 31, 2005, of which 21,366 warrants may be
exercised in 2006 at $0.01 per share.  

    The antidilution warrants
only become exercisable to the extent that the underlying options, warrants,
convertible securities or other similar rights are exercised or converted. From
March 31, 2005 to May 31, 2005, stock options to purchase an
aggregate of 29,500 shares were exercised pursuant to our Incentive Plan at
exercise prices ranging from $8.0625 to $8.75, thereby triggering the
exercisability of a corresponding number of the antidilution warrants. The
issuance of the shares underlying the stock options was registered pursuant to
registration statements on Form S-8 filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. None of the antidilution warrants or underlying shares
have been registered, and were issued and sold in reliance upon specific
exemptions from registration, including Section 4(2) and Rule 506
promulgated under Regulation D of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The
warrant holders have the right to require us to register under the federal and
state securities laws of any GPIC shares that they obtain from us, Eric Endy or
the Endy Trust, including the antidilution shares. The exercise of the antidilution
warrants and acquisition of the underlying shares were exempt under Rule 16b-3
and Rule 16b-6(b).  

     Item 6.                             Selected
Financial Data . 

  The selected consolidated financial data included in
the following tables should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated
Financial Statements and related notes, and  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  appearing elsewhere
herein. The selected consolidated financial data for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004, and 2003 and as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, have been
derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere
herein. The selected consolidated financial data for the years ended December 31,
2002 and 2001, and as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, have been
derived from our audited consolidated financial statements not included herein.  

  A Combination Agreement was executed on September 12,
2002, combining GPIC (formerly known as Paul-Son Gaming Corporation) with
GPI-SAS (formerly known as Etablissements Bourgogne et Grasset S.A.). At
the closing, the businesses of GPIC, GPIC-SAS and GPI-SAS  then
wholly-owned subsidiary, the Bud Jones Company, Inc., or Bud Jones, were
combined, with GPI-SAS and Bud Jones becoming wholly-owned subsidiaries
of GPIC, or the Combination. The Combination was accounted for as a purchase
transaction for financial accounting purposes. Because the former GPI-SAS
stockholders owned a majority of the outstanding GPIC common stock as a result
of the Combination, the Combination was accounted for as a reverse acquisition
in which GPI-SAS was the purchaser of GPIC.   On December 31, 2002, Bud Jones merged
into GPI-USA, which was a wholly-owned subsidiary of GPIC and GPI-USA
was the surviving entity. Bud Jones was a gaming supply manufacturing company,
which was also headquartered in Las Vegas. Both former operations (GPI-USA
and Bud Jones) were consolidated into one facility at the Company s
headquarters in Las Vegas, Nevada with the new name of GPI-USA. (See Part II-Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements-Note 1.)  

20  

The table below reflects historical information for
the year ended December 31, 2001 for GPI-SAS and for the former Bud
Jones Company for the entire year, the chip manufacturing business of Trend
Plastics, Inc. from August 2001 and T-K Specialty Company, Inc.
from September 2001. The year ended December 31, 2002 includes
historical information for GPI-SAS, the former Bud Jones Company, Trend
Plastics, T-K Specialty Company, Inc. for the entire year and the
former Paul-Son Gaming Corporation and its subsidiaries from September 12,
2002. The years ended December 31, 2003 to 2005 include historical
information for all entities described above, for the full years.   

(1)             Cash dividends paid were
approximately $787,000 for the period ended December 31, 2005 and $0 for
all other periods. 

21  

Item 7.                             Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . 

     Recent Developments   

  On December 22, 2004, we entered into a
construction contract for a 1,600 square foot additional expansion to extend
the Jeton and Plaque Production area. This extension was completed in the third
quarter of 2005. The cost was approximately $320,000, totally paid for out of
our operating funds. In February 2006, we entered into a construction
contract for a 5,400 square foot additional building to be completed in the
third quarter of 2006, to receive the equipment warehouse and the showroom. We
anticipate the cost to be approximately $350,000, to be paid for out of our
operating funds.  

  In January 2006,
Progressive Gaming International Corporation, a provider of diversified gaming products
and services, granted GPIC the exclusive rights in the U.S. and non-exclusive
rights outside the U.S. to manufacture gaming chips with the 13.56 MHz RFID
technology. GPIC can now successfully embed the faster 13.56 MHz RFID microchip
in each and every one of its popular brands of gaming chips. We can now offer casinos
all of our gaming chips, plaques and jetons with either this proprietary
embedded high frequency 13.56 MHz RFID microchip or our well known 125 KHz RFID
microchips and readers, which technology we will support and continue developing
in the future years for the casinos particularly interested in
Casino-Currency-Control.  

     Overview   

  Gaming Partners International Corporation, a Nevada
corporation ( GPIC ) and each of its subsidiaries are sometimes collectively
referred to herein as the  Company,   us,   we,  or  our.   The following discussion is intended to
assist in the understanding of our results of operations and our present
financial condition. The consolidated financial statements and the accompanying
notes contain additional detailed information that should be referred to when
reviewing this material. Statements in this discussion may be forward-looking. Such
forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ significantly from those expressed. See Item 1A,  Risk
Factors.   

  A Combination Agreement was executed on September 12,
2002, combining GPIC (formerly known as Paul-Son Gaming Corporation) with
GPI-SAS (formerly known as Etablissements Bourgogne et Grasset S.A.). At
the closing, the businesses of GPIC, GPIC-SAS and GPI-SAS  then
wholly-owned subsidiary, the Bud Jones Company, Inc., or Bud Jones, were
combined, with GPI-SAS and Bud Jones becoming wholly-owned subsidiaries
of GPIC, or the Combination. The Combination was accounted for as a purchase
transaction for financial accounting purposes. Because the former GPI-SAS
stockholders owned a majority of the outstanding GPIC common stock as a result
of the Combination, the Combination was accounted for as a reverse acquisition
in which GPI-SAS is the purchaser of GPIC. On December 31, 2002, Bud
Jones merged into GPI-USA, which was a wholly-owned subsidiary of GPIC
and GPI-USA was the surviving entity. Bud Jones was a gaming supply
manufacturing company, which was also headquartered in Las Vegas. Both former
operations (GPI-USA and Bud Jones) have been consolidated into one
facility at the Company s headquarters in Las Vegas, Nevada with the new name
of GPI-USA. (See Part II-Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 1.)  

  Our business activities include the manufacture and/or
supply of gaming equipment and supplies such as gaming chips, table layouts,
playing cards, dice, gaming furniture, table accessories and other products
that are used with casino table games such as blackjack, poker, baccarat, craps
and roulette. We generally sell our casino products to licensed casinos for new
openings and to existing casino operations, worldwide. We are headquartered in
Las Vegas, Nevada, with offices in Beaune, France, San Luis Rio Colorado,
Mexico, Atlantic City, New Jersey and Gulfport, Mississippi.  

  On March 3, 2005, we received approval from NASDAQ to
transfer the listing for our common stock from the NASDAQ SmallCap Market to
the NASDAQ National Market. We elected to transfer our   

22     

listing because we believe
that listing on the NASDAQ National Market will provide increased visibility
for the Company and liquidity for our common stock. Our common stock began
trading on the NASDAQ National Market effective March 10, 2005, under the same
ticker symbol, GPIC.  

  Our products on display at the 2006 and 2005 Global Gaming
Expo in Las Vegas, Nevada and the 2006 and 2005 ICE show in London, England
included our gaming chips with embedded RFID technology and corresponding chip
readers. We have been working for several years to apply the RFID technologies
to gaming chips. RFID microchips are available for each brand and type of our
gaming chips. We hold several patents concerning the embedding process of RFID
microchips and an exclusive license for the use of these RFID chips in gaming
chips in the United States. We also sell several types of related gaming chip
readers that can be used by the casinos at the cages, vaults, tables, or by the
pit bosses. Our gaming chips with embedded RFID microchips and readers help to
protect the casinos from redeeming at face value, counterfeit or stolen chips
and to improve the efficiency of table game management.  

  The following are
the most important factors and trends that contribute to our operating
performance:  

             A
number of foreign countries are currently considering legislation to legalize
or expand gaming. Such legislation presents potential opportunities to sell our
gaming supplies to new properties and thus increase revenue. The timing and
occurrence of these events remain uncertain. Therefore, we may experience
quarters that are more profitable than others due to the timing and nature of
new casino openings and expansions throughout the world. There has also been
accelerated expansion of U.S. based gaming companies overseas. Of particular
importance has been the opening of new and existing casinos in Macao in 2005
and the anticipated openings in 2006. Macao is controlled by the Peoples
Republic of China. Any material adverse change in the gaming regulatory
structure or any reductions in the growth rate of new and existing casinos in Macao
may have a material adverse effect on our businesses and results of operation. 

             The
receipt of higher volume orders enhances our profit margins through production
efficiencies. The timing and occurrence of these orders remain uncertain and
difficult to predict. Therefore, we may experience quarters that are more
profitable than others due to the timing and volume of product demand. 

             The level of desire or
acceptance, or lack thereof, for our product innovations regarding our security
features and various degrees of desire for increased efficiency of table
management information systems by the casino industry are important factors to
our Company. In particular, the increased acceptance of RFID gaming chips for
accounting, security, tracking, and wager recognition in table games may be a
significant trend, impacting our business. 

23     

Results of Operations   

  The following table summarizes selected items from the
Company s Consolidated Statements of Income as a percentage of revenues for the
periods indicated:  

The following table details the Company s historical
revenues by product line:  

Comparison
of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004   

    Revenues.      For
the year ended December 31, 2005, revenues were approximately $57.1
million, an increase of approximately $12.5 million, versus revenues of
approximately $44.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The
increase in revenues for 2005 was principally the result of GPI-SAS 
sales to new casinos in Asia of approximately $8.0 million. Sales by GPI-USA
amounted to $31.0 million for the year 2005, an increase of approximately $5.0
million, primarily as a result of sales revenues to a new casino opening in Las
Vegas of approximately $1.8 million, sales revenue to a wholesaler totaling
$1.0 million and large reorders of approximately $2.2 million. 

    Cost
of Revenues.      Cost of revenues, as a percentage
of sales decreased to 59.8% for 2005, compared to 61.1% for 2004. The decrease
in cost of revenues as a percentage of sales occurred principally due to the
better absorption of fixed costs due to the higher sales volume, and the
increased efficiency achieved by the realignment and restructuring of our
production facilities. 

    Gross
Profit.      Gross profit for the year ended December 31,
2005 increased in absolute dollars by approximately $5.6 million from 2004. This
occurred as a result of the aforementioned increase in revenues of
approximately $12.5 million and the decrease in cost of revenues as a
percentage of sales. 

24     

Operating Expenses.      Operating
expenses, which include product development; marketing and sales; depreciation
and amortization; and general and administrative costs, increased to
approximately $17.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from
approximately $13.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This
increase of approximately $3.8 million was primarily attributable to an
increase in general and administrative expenses of $3.1 million. The increase
in general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of one-time
expenses of approximately $2.7 million; consisting of stock compensation
expense of $778,000, due to 100,000 shares of performance-based options which
vested in fourth quarter of 2005; $122,000 in NASDAQ National Market listing
expenses; $344,000 in building repairs in our Las Vegas, Mexico and France
facilities; $346,000 in salary adjustments and reorganization costs; and $352,000
in information technology. Additionally, we incurred expenses of approximately
$525,000, which were related to work performed towards future compliance with
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and $48,000 related to new patent acquisition
costs. We also incurred costs of $241,000 related to the Hurricane Katrina and
Rita disasters, of which $191,000 was related to the increase in the bad debt
reserve on receivables due from casinos and $50,000 was related to donations.
Additionally, product development and marketing and sales expenses increased
approximately $587,000. The increases were mainly due to costs associated with
sales commissions of $160,000 related to the increase in sales, the cost of
reorganization of personnel in France of approximately $353,000, and the cost
of remolding the G2E Convention booth of $74,000. 

Other Income (Expense),
(excluding Interest Expense).      During the year
ended December 31, 2005, other income (expense), including gain (loss) on
foreign currency transactions, interest income, gains on sales of marketable
securities, and other income (expense) increased to approximately $444,000 in
income from approximately $57,000 in expense during the year ended December 31,
2004. This increase of approximately $501,000 was principally the result of the
change in foreign currency exchange rates, resulting in a loss of $155,000 in
2004 and a gain of $133,000 in 2005. Foreign currency transaction gains
occurred as a result of an increase in the U.S. dollar to Euro exchange rates
during 2005. Gain on the sale of marketable securities increased by $47,000
between the periods. Other income (expense) showed an increase in income of
$166,000 primarily due to the interest income earned on a higher balance of
marketable securities in 2005. 

    Interest Expense.      For
the year ended December 31, 2005, interest expense decreased to
approximately $199,000 from approximately $253,000 for the year ended December 31,
2004. This decrease of approximately $54,000 was primarily caused by a decrease
in the average outstanding debt amounts in 2005 as compared to 2004, due to
normal payments. 

25     

Income Taxes.      During
the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded an income tax expense of
approximately $1.8 million as compared to a tax expense of approximately $1.2
million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in income tax
expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 was primarily a result of the
Company s higher foreign income. The Company s effective tax rate for the year
ended December 31, 2005 differed from the statutory rate as a result of a
change in the valuation allowance to reflect the expected utilization of
federal net operating loss carryforwards, the Company s repatriation of
non-cash dividend from GPI-SAS, and book-to-return adjustments primarily
resulting from a refinement of the Company s previous estimate of deemed
dividends under IRC Sec 956. It is likely that in the future the Company will
distribute additional non-cash dividends from GPI-SAS to GPI-USA. If
such dividends occur, it is likely that the Company s net operating losses will
be diminished, and that the Company will generate excess foreign tax credits,
which will carry forward for 10 years. The utilization of the foreign tax
credits will depend upon whether the Company generates foreign source income
prospectively. 

     Comparison
of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003   

    Revenues.               For the year ended December 31, 2004,
revenues were approximately $44.6 million, an increase of approximately $8.4
million, versus revenues of approximately $36.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. This increase in revenues for 2004 was principally the
result of GPI SAS  sales to new casinos in Asia in the second and the fourth
quarters of 2004. In the fourth quarter of 2004, GPI SAS had an increase in
sales of approximately $4.0 million compared to the same period in 2003. This
increase was due mainly to sales to new and existing casinos opening in Macao.
In the second quarter of 2004, GPI SAS had an increase in sales of $4.7 million
compared to the same period in 2003. This increase was due to sales in Myanmar,
the Philippines and Canada for $2.3 million, $1.7 million and $700,000,
respectively. In the second quarter of 2004, the U.S. operations had a sale to
a casino in Canada for approximately $1.0 million. These second and fourth
quarter increases in revenue, were partially offset by decreased revenues in
the first quarter of 2004 due to the timing and demand variability for casino
openings and expansion. For the year ended December 31, 2003, revenues included
approximately $1.2 million in sales for a large U.S. casino opening in the
second quarter of 2003, and sales to an Asian casino for approximately $1.9
million during the second quarter of 2003 and $1.8 million during the fourth
quarter of 2003.    

    Cost of Revenues.               Cost of revenues, as a percentage of
sales, decreased to 61.1% for 2004, compared to 61.9% during 2003. The decrease
in cost of revenues as a percentage of sales occurred principally due to the
better absorption of fixed costs due to the higher sales volume, and the
product mix at GPI SAS, which had a higher percentage of the European gaming
chip production in the 2004 year, compared to 2003.    

    Gross Profit.        Gross
profit for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased in absolute dollars by
approximately $3.6 million from 2003. This occurred as a result of the
aforementioned increase in revenues of approximately $8.4 million and the
decrease in cost of revenues as a percentage of sales. 

Operating Expenses.      Operating
expenses, which include product development; marketing and sales; depreciation
and amortization; and general and administrative costs, increased approximately
to $13.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 from
approximately $12.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. This
increase was primarily attributable to an increase in product development  

26     

and marketing and
sales expense of approximately $705,000 due to costs associated with the name
change and new catalogs and advertising, Enpat and Shuffle Master royalties,
CIAS fees, sales commissions and bonuses. As a result of the relocation of the
Kansas chip manufacturing operations to Las Vegas, $341,000 in expenses were
incurred in the second and third quarters of 2004. Our legal and regulatory
license fees for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 amounted to
$456,000 and $264,000, respectively; primarily due to increases in legal
expenses due to the name change and issues associated with public reporting.  

Other Income (Expense),
(excluding Interest Expense).      During the year
ended December 31, 2004, other income (expense), including losses on
foreign currency transactions, interest income, gains on sales of marketable
securities, and other income (expense) decreased to approximately $57,000 in
expense from approximately $144,000 in expense during the year ended December 31,
2003. This decrease of approximately $87,000 was principally the result of a
decrease in foreign currency exchange losses from $292,000 in 2003 compared to
$155,000 in 2004. The variation in foreign currency transactions occurred as a
result of an increase in the Euro and the sales activity in foreign currencies
between the quarterly periods. This was partially offset by a decrease in both
other income and gain on sale of marketable securities. 

    Interest Expense      .               For the year ended December 31, 2004,
interest expense decreased to approximately $253,000 from approximately
$264,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease of approximately
$11,000 was primarily caused by a slight decrease in the average outstanding
debt amounts in 2004 as compared to 2003, due to normal payments.    

    Income Taxes.          During the year ended December 31, 2004, we
recorded an income tax expense of approximately $1,152,000 as compared to a tax
expense of approximately $101,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003. The
increase in income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 is
primarily a result of the Company s higher foreign income. It is likely that in
the future the Company will dividend amounts from GPI-SAS, to GPI-USA. If such
dividends occur, it is likely that the Company s net operating losses will be
diminished, and that the Company will generate excess foreign tax credits,
which will carry forward 10 years. The utilization of the foreign tax credits
will depend upon whether the Company generates foreign source income
prospectively. 

     Liquidity
and Capital Resources   

    Overview.               We believe that the combination of cash
flow from operations and cash on hand should be sufficient to fund expenses
from routine operations on a short-term basis. As of December 31, 2005, we had
approximately $4.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $9.1 million in
marketable securities. For the longer term, in addition to these cash sources,
management will evaluate other cash source alternatives, including other
lending facilities in the U.S. or abroad. Due to negative tax consequences,
there may be difficulty in moving cash between France and the U.S. There can be
no assurance that the other cash sources will be available to us on terms and
conditions acceptable to us.    

    Working Capital and Cash
Flow (See Consolidated Balance Sheet).      Working
capital totaled approximately $9.6 million at December 31, 2005, compared
to approximately $12.2 million in working capital at December 31, 2004. Working
capital decreased by approximately $2.6 million in 2005 primarily due to an increase
in current assets of $4.2 million, offset by an increase in current liabilities
of $6.8  

27     

million. Overall,
cash decreased by approximately $3.4 million from December 31, 2004 to December 31,
2005.  

  The increase in current
assets in 2005 was due primarily to an increase in the net purchase of
marketable securities of $4.1 million, an increase in inventory of
approximately $2.5 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $1.1
million.  

  The increase in current
liabilities in 2005 was due primarily to an increase in customer deposits of
approximately $7.0 million, as a result of our increased sales and backlog; an
increase of approximately $1.0 million in accrued expenses primarily due to an
increase in accrued wages and vacation expenses for increased personnel in
France; and an increase of approximately $1.1 million of deferred income tax
liability, primarily related to U.S. income taxes.  

    Net Cash Flow (See
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow).          Net cash flow provided by operating
activities was approximately $9.0 million during 2005 compared to $8.2 million
during 2004. In 2005, the primary operational sources of cash were related to
net income before depreciation and amortization, and the increase in customer
deposits of $7.7 million; partially offset by increased inventory purchases and
deferred income taxes. In 2004, the primary operational sources of cash were
also related to net income, and the increase in customer deposits of $1.9 million;
partially offset by increased inventory purchases. 

  Our investing activities
resulted in net cash used of approximately $10.6 million for 2005, compared to
approximately $5.1 million in net cash used in investing activities for 2004.
During 2005, we used net cash of $4.9 million to purchase marketable securities
as compared to net cash used to purchase marketable securities in 2004 of $1.9
million. In addition, we used cash of approximately $3.8 million to purchase
property and equipment to facilitate increased production.  

  Net cash flow used in
financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 of $1.1 million
related to the repayment of long-term debt of $1.0 million compared to the
repayment of long-term debt of $794,000 in 2004; additionally, for the first
time, we paid a cash dividend of approximately $787,000 in the fourth quarter
of 2005; partially offset by proceeds from stock options exercised of
approximately $700,000. In 2005, our employees and directors exercised 169,366
options, including warrants, at an average exercise price of $4.13 per share
but excluding the non-cash vesting of the 100,000 stock options to the CEO.
Overall, our cash balance decreased from December 31, 2004 to December 31,
2005 by approximately $3.4 million.  

    Long-Term
Debt (See Consolidated Balance Sheet).      In February 2001,
GPI-SAS borrowed approximately $2.2 million from an unaffiliated
party. Principal and interest payments are due quarterly in the original
approximate amount of $116,000 until February 2008, varying with the
fluctuation in the Euro to U.S. Dollar rate. Interest accrues at the fixed rate
of 5.1% per annum. The loan is guaranteed by our majority stockholder, Holding
Wilson, S.A. Under the terms of the GPI-SAS loan agreement, GPI-SAS
must comply with certain financial covenants that are calculated annually based
on the financial statements of GPI-SAS. Specifically, GPI-SAS 
ratio of total loans and similar debt (inclusive of capital lease obligations)
to operating cash flow (defined under French GAAP as operating income before
depreciation and provisions) must not exceed 1.7, and the ratio of total loans
and similar debt (inclusive of capital lease obligations) to stockholders 
equity must not exceed 0.5. GPI-SAS  actual ratio of total loans and
similar debt (inclusive of capital lease obligations) to operating cash flow
and ratio of total loans and similar debt (inclusive of capital lease
obligations) to stockholders  equity were 0.25 and 0.12, respectively, as of
December 31, 2005. 

28  

In March 2002, GPI-USA entered into a
$995,000 loan transaction secured by a Deed of Trust on its Las Vegas building,
which matures on March 1, 2012, at an interest rate equal to the greater
of (i) 8% per annum, or (ii) 362.5 basis points over the average of
the London Interbank Offered Rates for six-month dollar deposits in the London
market based on quotations of major banks, or LIBOR, but may not exceed 12% per
annum. This loan is payable in arrears in equal monthly installments through
and including March 1, 2012, at which time the entire remaining principal
balance of approximately $874,000 will be due and payable. As of
December 31, 2005, there was no prepayment penalty.  

  On January 9,
2004, GPI-SAS entered into a 350,000 Euro (approximately $447,000 U.S.
at the January 9, 2004 exchange rate) loan transaction, with Banque
Nationale de Paris (B.N.P.), a French bank, for the purposes of building
expansion in France. The general terms of this loan are as follows:  

               Interest Rate.   3.6%, fixed per annum. 

               Maturity Date  . The maturity date is
January 2010. 

               Security.   The loan is secured by a mortgage on the building premises. 

               Monthly Payment.   4,720 Euros; no balloon payment. 

   Seasonality.         We do
not typically experience seasonality relative to our revenues, except,
potentially, for the third quarter of each year, when the French location
(office and manufacturing facility) is closed for a substantial part of the
month of August, due to holiday. 

    Las
Vegas, Nevada Facilities.               In May 1997, we purchased our current
corporate headquarters, an approximately 60,000 square foot building located in
Las Vegas. The Las Vegas headquarters secures the $995,000 loan pursuant to the
Deed of Trust. See  Long-Term Debt  above. In connection with the Combination,
the former Bud Jones relocated its operations to the Las Vegas headquarters
during the fourth quarter of 2002.    

    San Luis Rio Colorado, Mexico Facilities.      We
lease a 34,000 square foot facility pursuant to a one-year lease, which expired
on March 31, 2004. In April 2004 and March 2006, we extended the
lease for an additional five years at the same monthly rent amount of
approximately $0.35 per square foot, or $12,000 and $61,000, respectively,
except that the rent amount may be prorated, commensurate with the space that
we elected to use. We also own an approximately 66,000 square foot facility
used for the manufacture of playing cards, tables, and layouts products that is
adjacent to the leased building. (See Part II-Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 13.) 

    Beaune,
France Facilities.          We
own an approximately 34,000 square foot manufacturing and administrative
facility in Beaune, France. In January 9, 2004, GPI-SAS entered into
a 350,000 Euro (or approximately $447,000 U.S. as of January 9, 2004)
loan agreement, with Banque Nationale de Paris (B.N.P), a French bank, for
building expansion. See  Secured Debt  above. On December 22, 2004, we
entered into a construction contract for a 1,600 square foot additional
expansion to be completed in the second quarter of 2005, to extend the jeton
and plaque production area. We anticipate the cost to be approximately
$174,000, which will be paid for out of our operating funds. Additional
expansion is planned for other production operations in 2005, but has not yet
been finalized. 

    Capital Expenditures.      We
currently plan to purchase approximately between $3.0 to $4.0 million in
capital equipment and improvements in 2006. 

     Contractual
Obligations and Commercial Commitments   

  The following table presents contractual obligations
and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2005.  

29     

The
impact that our contractual obligations are anticipated to have on our liquidity
and cash flow in future periods is reflected in the table below. We have no
other significant contractual obligations or commercial commitments either on
or off balance sheet as of December 31, 2005. Operating leases on a
month-to-month basis are not included in the table below. (See Part II-Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements-Note 9.)   

(1)             The total represents the
expected cash payments of our long-term debt, including the current portion of
the long-term debt, but excluding any fair value adjustments. 

  (2)             Amounts
represent purchase obligations, agreements to purchase goods or services,
obligations that relate to an intellectual property agreement, and employment
agreements that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all
significant terms, but excluding any agreements that are cancelable without
penalty. 

     Related Party Transactions   

  Ron-Lyn Enterprises, a company co-owned by Ron Coiro,
former East Coast Sales Manager of GPI-USA, provided miscellaneous table
game plastic accessories to GPI-USA, including dealing shoes, money
paddles and discard holders. Since December 31, 2004, we have not
purchased any products from Ron-Lyn Enterprises. For the fiscal years ended December 31,
2005, 2004, and 2003, GPI-USA paid Mr. Coiro, through Ron-Lyn
Enterprises, approximately $0, $186,000 and $113,300, respectively.  

  We lease our main 34,000 square foot manufacturing
facility located in San Luis Rio Colorado, Mexico from an entity controlled by
the family of Frank Moreno, General Manager of GPI-Mexico. The current
lease was extended in April 2004, for an additional five years at the same
monthly rent amount of approximately $0.35 per square foot, or $12,000. If we
elect, at our discretion, to use more or less square footage, our rent will be
increased or decreased accordingly. We also own an approximately 66,000 square
foot facility used for the manufacture of playing cards, tables, and layouts
products that is adjacent to the leased building. On March 1, 2006, we
amended our current lease for an additional 17,500 square feet. This extension
has the same five year term at the same monthly rent amount of approximately
$0.35 per square feet, or $6,100. (See Part II-Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 13.)  

  Neither Mr. Coiro nor
Mr. Moreno is a director or executive officer. The charter of the Board of
Directors requires the Audit Committee to review related party transactions
involving our directors and executive officers.  

     Critical Accounting Estimates   

  Our consolidated financial
statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Certain of our accounting estimates,
including revenue recognition, accounting for stock-based compensation, the
depreciable lives of our assets, the   

30     

recoverability
of deferred tax assets, the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable,
write-downs of obsolete, excess or slow moving inventories, and the estimated
cash flows in assessing the recoverability of long-lived assets, require that
we apply significant subjective judgment in defining the appropriate
assumptions for calculating financial estimates. By their nature, these
judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Our judgments are
based on our historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance
of industry trends, information provided by or gathered from our customers and
information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. There can be
no assurance that actual results will not differ from our estimates. The
estimates discussed below are considered by management to be those in which our
estimates and judgments have a significant impact on issues that are inherently
uncertain. To provide a further understanding of the methodology we apply, our
significant accounting estimates are discussed where appropriate in this
discussion and analysis and in the notes to our consolidated financial
statements.  

   Revenue Recognition   

  Revenue may be recognized under different methods,
depending on the circumstances. In general, we recognize revenue when the
following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement between our
customer and us exists, shipment has occurred or services have been rendered,
the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably
assured.  

  Generally, this means we recognize revenue when our
products are shipped to our customers and title to the products and risk of
loss are transferred according to the shipping terms, at which time, the
products are deemed delivered. We typically sell our products with payment
terms of net 30 days or less and generally require a 50% down payment.  

  We offer a limited standard
warranty on some of our products, primarily in France. Warranty reserves are
provided under the accrual basis and are based on estimates of future costs
associated with fulfilling the warranty obligation. The estimates are derived
from historical cost experience.  

   Property and
Equipment   

  We have significant
capital invested in our property and equipment, which represented approximately
24% of our total assets for both years ended 2005 and 2004. Judgments are made
in determining the estimated useful lives of assets, salvage value to be
assigned to the assets and if or when an asset has been impaired. These
estimates and the accuracy thereof affect the amount of depreciation expense
recognized in the financial results and whether we have a gain or a loss on the
disposal of the asset. We assign lives to our assets based on our standard
policy, which is established by management as representative of the useful life
of each category of asset. The carrying value of property and equipment is
reviewed whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of
an asset may not be recoverable from the estimated future cash flows expected
to result from its use and eventual disposition. The factors considered by
management in performing this assessment include: current operating results,
trends and prospects, historical data, useful life changes, as well as the
effect of obsolescence, market price changes, demand, competition and other
economic factors. Our estimates have been within our expectations and the life
and depreciation amounts established. However, a change in our estimates may
result in an adjustment to our depreciation expense or to the gain or loss
realized on the disposal of an asset(s), which could have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated results of operations.  

   Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets   

  Effective November 1, 2002, in connection with
the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards  SFAS  No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  goodwill and trademarks with indefinite
useful lives are not amortized. We review goodwill and all intangibles with
indefinite lives   

31     

for impairment, annually
as of December 31, and whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable in
accordance with SFAS No. 142. We completed the annual goodwill impairment
test in 2005, and as a result of this test, no impairment of goodwill was
deemed necessary. Management made its judgment about the fair value of our
goodwill with assistance from an independent accountant and reviewed by an
appraiser.  

  Other intangible assets such as patents, non-compete
agreements and others with definite lives are amortized using the straight-line
method, over their economic useful lives, ranging from three to fourteen years.
We evaluate these intangible assets with definite lives for potential
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying
value may not be recoverable.  

  We would record an
impairment loss if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not
recoverable and the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value. Factors
that we consider important that could trigger an impairment review or
adjustment, that may cause it to not be recoverable include the following:  

             a
significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate 

             an
adverse action or assessment by a regulator 

             unanticipated
competition 

             negative
historical experience 

             a
negative change in the estimate of the useful lives of products 

             technological
obsolescence potential 

             a
negative estimate of the commercial viability of our patents and licenses 

             the
loss of key personnel 

             a
significant change in the manner of our use of our acquired assets or the
strategy for our business operations 

             a
significant decrease in the market price of an asset 

             a
current period operating or cash flow loss, combined with a history of
operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates
reduced profitability associated with the use of an asset 

             a
current belief or expectation that, more likely than not, an asset will be sold
or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously
estimated useful life 

  All of these assessments
require management judgment. Any changes in the key assumptions about the
business and its prospects, or changes in the market conditions or other
external conditions, could result in an impairment charge and such charge could
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.  

   Deferred Taxes   

  We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred
tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. We have
considered estimated future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies
in assessing the amount needed for the valuation allowance. In assessing the
need for a valuation allowance, we look to the future reversal of existing
taxable temporary differences, taxable income in prior carryback years, the
feasibility of tax planning strategies and estimated future taxable income. The
valuation allowance can be affected by changes to tax laws, both foreign and
domestic, changes to statutory tax rates and changes to future taxable income
estimates.  

32     

The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing
audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which may result in
proposed assessments. Our estimate for the potential outcome for any uncertain
tax issue is highly subjective and judgmental. We believe we have adequately
provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters. However,
our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our
estimated tax liabilities due to closure of income tax examinations, new
regulatory or judicial pronouncements, or other relevant events. As a result,
our effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis.  

  If actual results differ
unfavorably from those estimates used, we may not be able to realize all or
part of our net deferred tax assets and additional valuation allowances may be
required. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary
differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in
which the differences are expected to reverse. We periodically assess the
likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets and reflect
any changes in our estimates in the valuation allowance, with a corresponding
adjustment to earnings or equity, as appropriate.  

   Bad Debt Reserves   

  We recognize an allowance
for doubtful accounts (bad debt reserves) to ensure trade receivables are not
overstated due to uncollectibility. This allowance is maintained for all
customers, and reviewed on an ongoing basis, based on a variety of factors,
including the length of time the receivables are past due, economic conditions
and trends, significant one-time events and historical experience. Various
percentages are applied to the aged receivables. Additional amounts are
recorded to the allowance based on our awareness of a particular customer s
ability to meet its financial obligations. As with many estimates, management
must make judgments about potential actions by third parties in establishing
and evaluating our reserves for bad debts. Our estimates have been within our
expectations and the provisions established. However, a change in the financial
condition of specific customers or in overall trends experienced may result in
future adjustments to our bad debt reserves.  

   Inventory   

  We evaluate our inventory
for slow-moving, excess, and obsolete inventory that may not be saleable or
recoverable. Analysis of inventory levels, market conditions and future sales
forecasts are some of the methodologies for estimating the inventory
write-downs. Historical inventory usage activity, industry trends, and scrap
rates are considered in determining the level of reserves. As with many
estimates, management must make judgments about potential actions by third
parties, including customer demands in establishing and evaluating our
inventory reserves.  

   Equity Compensation
Plans   

  We currently account for stock option plans under SFAS
No. 123  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  and Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees . The Company generally has not incurred compensation expense for
employee stock options when the exercise price is at least 100% of the market
value of the Company s common stock on the date of grant.  

  In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 123  SFAS 123(R) , which replaces SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ) and supersedes Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.   SFAS 123(R) requires companies to
measure compensation costs for share-based payments to employees, including
stock options, at fair value and to expense such compensation over the service
period beginning with the first annual period after June 15, 2005. The pro
forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 will no longer be an   

33     

alternative to financial
statement recognition. We are required to adopt SFAS 123(R) in the first
quarter of fiscal 2006. Under SFAS 123(R), companies must determine the
appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing share-based payments. We
have chosen to continue applying the Black-Scholes model for SFAS
123(R) as we have done for SFAS 123. We must also choose the vesting or
amortization method for the compensation cost. We will continue to use the
straight-line method for future grants as well as previously granted options
under SFAS 123(R). Under SFAS 123(R), we must estimate forfeitures as of the
grant date, however, our historical forfeitures have been negligible. There are
two allowable transition alternatives the modified-prospective transition or
the modified-retrospective transition. We will apply the modified-prospective
transition. Under the modified-prospective transition, we will begin applying
the valuation and other criteria to stock options granted beginning
January 1, 2006. We will begin recognizing expense for the unvested
portion of previously issued grants at the same time, based on the valuation
and attribution methods originally used to calculate the disclosures. We
believe the impact of adopting SFAS 123(R) will result in additional
expense for 2006. The amount of such additional expense is subject to change
based on a number of factors, including the actual number of stock option
awards granted, number of warrants exercised, and changes in assumptions
underlying the option value estimates, such as the risk-free interest rate.  

   Earnings Per Share or EPS   

  In
accordance with SFAS No. 128,  Earnings per Share,  basic EPS is
calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common
shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the effect of potential
common stock, which consists primarily of assumed stock option and warrant
exercises. The weighted-average number of common shares outstanding used in the
computation of basic and diluted earnings per share as of December 31 is
as follows:  

For the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004, and 2003, 97,554, 270,000 and 203,500 shares respectively, would
have been included in the calculation of diluted EPS; however the exercise
price of those options exceeded the average market price.  

     Recently
Issued and Adopted Accounting Guidance   

  In November 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 151  Inventory Costs an amendment of Accounting
Research Bulletin ( ARB ) No. 43, Chapter 4.   The amendment clarifies that abnormal amounts
of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted materials
(spoilage) should be recognized as current-period charges and requires the
allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory based on the normal
capacity of the production facilities. The guidance is effective for our fiscal
year beginning on January 1, 2006. Upon the adoption of this amendment
there was no material impact to our overall results of operations or financial
position.  

  In December 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 123  SFAS 123(R) , which replaces SFAS No. 123,  Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ) and supersedes Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.   SFAS 123(R) requires companies to
measure compensation costs for share-based payments to employees, including
stock options, at fair value and to expense such compensation over the service
period beginning with the first annual period after June 15, 2005. The pro
forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 will no longer be an   

34     

alternative
to financial statement recognition. We are required to adopt SFAS 123(R) in
the first quarter of fiscal 2006. Under SFAS 123(R), companies must determine
the appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing share-based payments,
the amortization or vesting method for compensation cost and the transition
method to be used at date of adoption. We have chosen to continue applying the
Black-Scholes model for SFAS 123(R) as we have done for SFAS 123. We must also
choose the vesting or amortization method for the compensation cost. We will
continue to use the straight-line method for future grants as well as
previously granted options under SFAS 123(R). Under SFAS 123(R), we must
estimate forfeitures as of the grant date, however, our historical forfeitures
have been negligible. There are two allowable transition alternatives the
modified-prospective transition or the modified-retrospective transition. We
will apply the modified-prospective transition. Under the modified-prospective
transition, we will begin applying the valuation and other criteria to stock
options granted beginning January 1, 2006. We will begin recognizing expense
for the unvested portion of previously issued grants at the same time, based on
the valuation and attribution methods originally used to calculate the disclosures.
We believe the impact of adopting SFAS 123(R) will result in additional
expense for 2006. The amount of such additional expense is subject to change
based on a number of factors, including the actual number of stock option
awards granted, number of warrants exercised, and changes in assumptions
underlying the option value estimates, such as the risk-free interest rate.  

  In December 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 153, ( SFAS 153 ),  Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets ,
amending APB Opinion No. 29, which treated nonmonetary exchanges of
similar productive assets as an exception from fair value measurement. SFAS 153
replaces this exception with a general exception from fair value measurement
for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. Nonmonetary
exchanges have commercial substance if the future cash flows of an entity are
expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. We adopted this
statement for nonmonetary asset exchanges beginning on July 1, 2005. The
adoption did not result in a material impact to our results of operations,
financial position or cash flows.  

  In March 2005, FASB
Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations  (FIN 47) an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143,  Accounting
for Asset Retirement Obligations  (SFAS 143), clarifies the term conditional
asset retirement obligation as used in SFAS 143. The term refers to a legal
obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or)
method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be
within the control of the entity. The obligation to perform the asset
retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the
timing and (or) method of settlement. Thus, the timing and (or) method of
settlement may be conditional on a future event. Accordingly, an entity is
required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset
retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably
estimated. The fair value of a liability for the conditional asset retirement
obligation should be recognized when incurred generally upon acquisition,
construction, or development and (or) through the normal operation of the asset.
Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional
asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the
liability when sufficient information exists. FIN 47 was effective for fiscal
years ending after December 15, 2005. The adoption did not result in a
material impact to our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  

  In May 2005, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 154, ( SFAS 154 ),  Accounting Changes and Error
Corrections.  This statement replaces APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3
and changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change
in accounting principle. APB No. 20 previously required that most
voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized by including in net
income of the period of the change the cumulative effect of changing to the
accounting principle. SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior
periods  financial statements of voluntary changes in accounting principles. SFAS
154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in
fiscal years   

35     

beginning
after December 15, 2005. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 154 will
have a significant impact on the results of operations, financial position and
cash flows.  

     Item
7A.                     Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk . 

  Market risk refers to the
potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign currency
fluctuations and exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices including
the correlation among these factors and their volatility. We are primarily
exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and exchange risk and interest rate
risk.  

    Foreign Currency Risk.      There
are two types of foreign currency exchange risks that we may be subject
to:  transaction and translation gains
and losses. Foreign exchange transaction gains or losses are distinguished from
translation gains or losses as follows:  (i) translation
adjustments do not involve the movement of cash, they are accounting conversion
calculations of an existing functional currency to a reporting currency and (ii) transaction
gains or losses which are based on an actual transaction that requires formal
payment at a future point in time. 

  We are subject to foreign
currency exchange risk relating to the translation of GPI-SAS  assets,
liabilities, and income and expense accounts. The translation adjustment for
assets and liabilities is reflected in the other accumulated comprehensive
income (loss) caption included in the stockholders  equity section on our
consolidated balance sheets. GPI-SAS uses the local currency as its
functional currency.  

  The assets and liabilities
of GPI-SAS are translated into U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange at December 31,
2005. The income and expense accounts are translated using the average rate of
exchange during the period. GPI-SAS typically incurs gains or losses of
specified foreign currency transactions and these amounts are occasionally
material. These gains and losses are reflected in our statements of income. The U.S. dollar strengthened against the
Euro from $0.84440 at December 31, 2005 to $0.73310 at December 31,
2004. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we did not have any forwards,
options or other derivative contracts in force.  

  Although our manufacturing
is partially performed in Mexico, the functional currency of GPI-Mexico
is considered to be the U.S. dollar. GPI-Mexico is funded by our U.S.
subsidiary in U.S. dollars and GPI-Mexico does not have significant
financial transactions other than the receipt of U.S. dollar funds to pay
employees and the payment of certain costs to operate its manufacturing plants.
Balance sheet accounts of GPI-Mexico are maintained and reported
principally in U.S. dollar historical amounts. Therefore, the balance sheet of
GPI-Mexico is not subject to translation adjustment risk.  

  Because of our significant
international operations, we are exposed to currency fluctuations and exchange
risk on all loans and contracts in foreign currencies. We may engage in hedging
as it relates to sale contracts between GPI-SAS and other foreign
countries, which have currencies that are different than the Euro. Although we
have not entered into any hedging agreements during the periods reflected in
this report, there is a possibility that we may enter into a hedging agreement,
dependent on the world money market conditions and other foreign currency
fluctuation considerations. To minimize the financial impact of these items, we
attempt to contract a majority of our services in U.S. dollars. We continually
monitor the currency exchange risk associated with all transactions not
denominated in the U.S. dollar.  

    Interest Rate Risk.      Changes
in interest rates may result in changes in the fair market value of our
financial instruments, interest income and interest expense. As of December 31,
2005, we had total interest bearing debt and capital lease obligations of
approximately $2.6 million. Of this amount, approximately $1.6 million has a
fixed rate of interest and we believe that these agreements have fair values,
which approximate reported amounts. 

  The remaining
approximately $1.0 million of interest bearing obligations have variable
interest rates which are tied to the (i) U.S.-based prime borrowing rate
of interest, and (ii) LIBOR, or a London   

36     

Interbank
Offered Rate, for six-month dollar deposits, plus 362.5 basis points. To the
extent there are significant changes to the U.S.-based prime lending rate,
which is approximately 7.25% as of December 31, 2005, and to the extent
there are significant increases to LIBOR that would exceed a floor of 8.0%, we
would have increased interest expense on approximately $1.0 million of debt
over the succeeding eight years. For each 1.0% increase in interest rates, we
would incur increased interest expense of approximately $10,000 over the next
twelve-month period.  

     Item
8.                             Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data . 

  Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm  

  Consolidated Balance
Sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2004  

  Consolidated Statements of
Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity and
Other Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003  

  Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

  Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  

37  

GAMING
PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 
AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

38  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM   

  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Gaming Partners International Corporation 
Las Vegas, Nevada  

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of Gaming Partners International Corporation (formerly known as Paul-Son
Gaming Corporation) and Subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders 
equity and other comprehensive income, and of cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2005. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to
perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit
included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis
for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no
such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Gaming
Partners International Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.  

   DELOITTE   TOUCHE 
LLP  

  Las Vegas, Nevada 
March 28, 2006  

39  

GAMING
PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
December 31,  
(dollars in thousands, except share amounts)   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     40  

GAMING
PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
Years Ended December 31,  
(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     41  

GAMING
PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 
(dollars in thousands, except share amounts)   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

42   

GAMING
PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
Years Ended December 31, 
(dollars in thousands)   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     43  

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

     Note 1.   Nature of Business and Significant
Accounting Policies   

    Organization and Nature of Business    

  Effective September 1, 2004, Paul-Son
Gaming Corporation completed its name change to Gaming Partners International
Corporation. Gaming Partners International Corporation, a Nevada corporation ( GPIC )
and each of its subsidiaries are sometimes collectively referred to herein as
the  Company,   we,   us,  or  our.   The
name change was approved by a vote of stockholders at the Company s annual
meeting held on May 26, 2004. The Company s established brand names such
as Paul-Son, Bourgogne et Grasset    ,
or B G, Bud Jones   , and T-K 
brands remain unchanged. The Company s subsidiary, Paul-Son Gaming
Supplies, Inc. changed its name to Gaming Partners International U.S.A., Inc.,
or GPI-USA. The Company s subsidiary, Etablissements Bourgogne et Grasset
S.A. also changed its name to Gaming Partners International SAS, or GPI-SAS.
The Company s subsidiary, Paul-Son Mexicana, S.A. de C.V., changed its
name to GPI Mexicana S.A. de C.V., or GPI-Mexico. 

  A Combination Agreement was executed on September 12,
2002, combining GPIC (formerly known as Paul-Son Gaming Corporation) with
GPI-SAS (formerly known as Etablissements Bourgogne et Grasset S.A.). At
the closing, the businesses of GPIC, GPI-SAS and GPI-SAS  then
wholly-owned subsidiary, the former Bud Jones Company, Inc., or Bud Jones,
were combined, with GPI-SAS and Bud Jones becoming wholly-owned
subsidiaries of GPIC, or the Combination. The Combination was accounted for as
a purchase transaction for financial accounting purposes. Because the former
GPI-SAS stockholders owned a majority of the outstanding GPIC common
stock as a result of the Combination, the Combination was accounted for as a
reverse acquisition in which GPI-SAS is the purchaser of GPIC.   On December 31, 2002, Bud Jones merged
into GPI-USA, which was a wholly-owned subsidiary of GPIC and GPI-USA
was the surviving entity. Bud Jones was a gaming supply manufacturing company,
which was also headquartered in Las Vegas. Both former operations (GPI-USA
and Bud Jones) have been consolidated into one facility at the Company s headquarters
in Las Vegas, Nevada with the new name of GPI-USA.  

  Our business activities
include the manufacture and supply of casino table game equipment and supplies,
including gaming chips, table layouts, playing cards, dice, wheels, gaming
furniture, and miscellaneous table accessories such as chip trays, drop boxes
and dealing shoes, which are used in conjunction with casino table games such
as blackjack, poker, baccarat, craps and roulette.  

    Basis of Consolidation and Presentation    

  The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of GPIC and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, including GPI-SAS,
GPI-USA and GPI-Mexico. The assets and liabilities of our inactive
former wholly-owned subsidiary, Authentic Products, Inc. were transferred
into GPIC during the second quarter of 2004. All material intercompany balances
and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The consolidated
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  

  A summary of our
significant accounting policies follows:  

   Cash and Cash
Equivalents   

  We consider all highly
liquid investments and repurchase agreements with maturities of three months or
less at the date of purchase to be cash and cash equivalents.  

44     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 1.       Nature of Business and Significant Accounting Policies
(Continued) 

   Fair Value of Financial Instruments   

  The fair value of cash,
accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates the carrying amount of
these financial instruments due to their short-term nature. The fair value of
long-term debt, which approximates its carrying value, is based on current
rates at which we could borrow funds with similar remaining maturities.  

   Accounts Receivables and Customer Deposits   

  We perform ongoing credit
evaluations of our customers and generally require a fifty percent deposit for
manufactured or purchased products at the discretion of management. These
customer deposits are classified as a current liability on the balance sheet.  

  We also maintain an
allowance for doubtful accounts. (See Note 12.) We recognize an allowance for
doubtful accounts (bad debt reserves) to ensure trade receivables are not
overstated due to uncollectibility. This allowance is maintained for all
customers, based on a variety of factors, including the length of time the
receivables are past due, economic conditions and trends, significant one-time
events and historical experience. Various percentages are applied to the aged
receivables. Additional amounts are recorded to the allowance based on our
awareness of a particular customer s inability to meet its financial
obligations.  

   Marketable Securities   

  We account for our
investments in marketable securities in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 115,  Accounting For Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities  No. 115. Under SFAS No. 115, our
securities are classified as available-for-sale and, as such, are carried at
fair value with unrealized holding gains and losses excluded from earnings and
reported within accumulated other comprehensive income. The first-in, first-out
method is used to determine the cost of securities disposed of. Marketable
securities consist of investments in securities offered by French banks,
primarily bond portfolios, that are designated by these banks as  risk free or
minimum risk instruments.  These investments are primarily held with one major
financial institution in our name.  

   Inventories   

  Inventories are stated at
the lower of cost or market, net of write-downs for slow-moving, excess and
obsolete items. Cost is determined using the weighted-average method in France
and the first-in, first-out method in the United States of America. Finished
goods inventories consist of dice, cards, chips, other gaming equipment and
supplies.  

   Property and
Equipment   

  Property
and equipment are stated at cost, net of depreciation. We include capitalized
lease equipment in our property and equipment for financial statement purposes.
Depreciation is computed primarily on the straight-line method for financial
reporting purposes over the following estimated useful lives:  

45     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 1.       Nature of Business and Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

   Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets   

  Effective November 1, 2002, in connection with
the implementation of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, 
economic goodwill and trademarks with indefinite useful lives are not amortized.
We review goodwill and all intangible assets with indefinite lives for
impairment, annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable in accordance with
SFAS No. 142. We completed the annual goodwill impairment test as of December 31,
2005, and as a result of this test, no impairment of goodwill was deemed
necessary. Management derives the annual fair value of our goodwill with yearly
assistance from an independent accountant after an initial review by an
appraiser.  

  Other intangible assets
such as patents, non-compete agreements and others with definite lives are
amortized, using the straight-line method over their economic useful lives, up
to fourteen years. We evaluate these intangible assets with definite lives for
potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the
carrying value may not be recoverable.  

   Debt   

  We include obligations from
capitalized leases in our long and short-term debt captions for financial
statement purposes.  

   Revenue Recognition   

  Substantially all revenue is recognized when products
are shipped to our customers, according to the shipping terms. We typically
sell our products with payment terms of net 30 days or less.  

  We offer a
limited standard warranty on some of our products, primarily in France. Sales
returns and warranty reserves are provided under the accrual basis and are
based on estimates of future costs associated with fulfilling the warranty
obligation. The estimates are derived from historical cost experience. Sales
returns were not material for us for the periods presented.  

   Income Taxes   

  We use SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income
Taxes,  for financial accounting and reporting for income taxes. A current tax
liability or asset is recognized for the estimated taxes payable or refundable
on tax returns for the current year. A deferred tax liability or asset is
recognized for the estimated future tax effects, based on provisions of the
enacted law, attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards.  

  GPIC and our subsidiaries
file separate income tax returns in our respective jurisdictions. Income taxes
are provided for the tax effects of transactions reported in the financial
statements and consist of taxes currently due plus deferred taxes related
primarily to differences between the basis of assets and liabilities acquired
for financial and income tax reporting. The deferred tax assets and liabilities
represent the future tax consequences of those differences, which will either
be taxable or deductible when the assets and liabilities are recovered or
settled. Deferred taxes also are recognized for operating losses that are
available to offset future income taxes.  

46     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 1.       Nature of Business
and Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

   Foreign Currency Transactions   

  The financial statements
of GPI-SAS are measured using the Euro as the functional currency. Assets
and liabilities of GPI-SAS are translated into the U.S. Dollar at
exchange rates as of the balance sheet date. Revenues and expenses are
translated into the U.S. Dollar at average rates of exchange in effect during
the year. The resulting cumulative translation adjustments have been recorded
in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 52,  Foreign Currency
Translation  and are shown within accumulated other comprehensive income.  

  Transaction gains and
losses that arise from exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated
in a currency other than the functional currency are included in the results of
operations as incurred.  

   Comprehensive Income   

  Comprehensive income
includes net earnings as well as additional other comprehensive income. Our
other comprehensive income also consists of unrealized gains and losses on
available-for-sale securities recorded net of tax, and cumulative translation
adjustments.  

  Comprehensive
income consists of the following:  

Estimates   

  The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Estimates and assumptions have been made in determining the
depreciable lives of assets, the recoverability of deferred tax assets, the
allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, write-downs of slow moving, excess
and obsolete inventories, estimates for the recoverability of long-lived
assets, litigation, claims and assessments; and/or the recoverability of
goodwill. Actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions.  

   Long-Lived Assets   

  In accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for
the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,  we review for impairment of
long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not
be recoverable. In general, we will recognize an impairment loss when the sum
of undiscounted expected future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of
such assets. The measurement for such an impairment loss is then based on the
fair value of the assets. We had no impairment losses for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2005.  

47     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 1.       Nature of Business and Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

  Assets are grouped and
evaluated for impairment at the lowest level for which there are identifiable
cash flows, which are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of
assets. We operate in only one primary marketplace (legalized casinos), it has
only one identifiable business segment with a centralized business operation,
and all cash flows are generated by this one segment and are not disaggregated.
(See Note 14 for the presentation of the one business segment by
geographic area.) Long-lived assets are principally real estate and, to a
lesser extent, production assets in and through which business operations and
products are manufactured and distributed.  

   Earnings Per Share
or  EPS    

  In
accordance with SFAS No. 128,  Earnings per Share,  basic EPS is
calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common
shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the effect of potential
common stock, which consists primarily of assumed stock option and warrant
exercises. Potentially dilutive securities are not taken into account when
their effect would be antidilutive. The weighted-average number of common
shares outstanding used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per
share as of December 31 is as follows:  

We have outstanding
certain stock options to purchase common stock, which have an exercise price
greater than the average market price. These antidilutive options have been
excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share for the
respective fiscal years. These outstanding antidilutive options for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were approximately 97,554, 270,000
and 203,500, respectively.  

48     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 1.       Nature of Business and Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

   Equity Compensation Plan Information   

  We
account for our stock option plans under Accounting Principles Board ( APB )
Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  under which no
compensation cost is generally required to be recognized. Had compensation cost
for these plans been determined consistent with SFAS No. 123,  Accounting
for Stock Based Compensation,  and SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation- Transaction and Disclosure, an Amendment to SFAS No. 123, 
our net income and earnings per share would have been reduced to the following
pro forma amounts for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):  

The fair value of each
option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions used for
grants in the years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively:  dividend yield of zero percent for all years;
expected volatility of 111.9%, 64%, and 45% for the years ended 2005 and 2004
and for the years ended December 31, 2003, respectively; risk-free
interest rates of 4.73%, 3.63% and 3.38% respectively, and an expected life of
5.6, 2.0, and 5.0 years for each of the options granted. Although a cash
dividend was paid in 2005, we currently do not have an intention to pay
dividends in the forseeable future.  

We estimate that stock
based compensation expense in 2006 related to the vesting of options
outstanding at December 31, 2005, excluding stock options potentially
granted to directors during 2006, will be approximately $212,000.  

   Recently Issued Accounting Guidance   

  In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151
 Inventory Costs an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin ( ARB ) No. 43,
Chapter 4.   The amendment clarifies that
abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted
materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current-  

49     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 1.       Nature of Business and Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

  period charges and
requires the allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory based on the
normal capacity of the production facilities. The guidance is effective for our
fiscal year beginning on January 1, 2006. Upon the adoption of this
amendment there was no material impact to our overall results of operations or
financial position.  

  In December 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 123  SFAS 123(R) , which replaces SFAS No. 123,  Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ) and supersedes Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.   SFAS 123(R) requires companies to
measure compensation costs for share-based payments to employees, including
stock options, at fair value and to expense such compensation over the service
period beginning with the first annual period after June 15, 2005. The pro
forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 will no longer be an
alternative to financial statement recognition. We are required to adopt SFAS
123(R) in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. Under SFAS 123(R), companies
must determine the appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing
share-based payments. We have chosen to continue applying the Black-Scholes
model for SFAS 123(R) as we have done for SFAS 123. We must also choose
the vesting or amortization method for the compensation cost. We will continue
to use the straight-line method for future grants as well as previously granted
options under SFAS 123(R). Under SFAS 123(R), we must estimate forfeitures as
of the grant date, however, our historical forfeitures have been negligible.
There are two allowable transition alternatives the modified-prospective
transition or the modified-retrospective transition. We will apply the
modified-prospective transition. Under the modified-prospective transition, we
will begin applying the valuation and other criteria to stock options granted
beginning January 1, 2006. We will begin recognizing expense for the unvested
portion of previously issued grants at the same time, based on the valuation
and attribution methods originally used to calculate the disclosures. We
believe the impact of adopting SFAS 123(R) will result in additional
expense for 2006. The amount of such additional expense is subject to change
based on a number of factors, including the actual number of stock option
awards granted, number of warrants exercised, and changes in assumptions
underlying the option value estimates, such as the risk-free interest rate.  

  In December 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 153, ( SFAS 153 ),  Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets ,
amending APB Opinion No. 29, which treated nonmonetary exchanges of
similar productive assets as an exception from fair value measurement. SFAS 153
replaces this exception with a general exception from fair value measurement
for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. Nonmonetary
exchanges have commercial substance if the future cash flows of an entity are
expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. We adopted this
statement for nonmonetary asset exchanges beginning on July 1, 2005. The
adoption did not result in a material impact to our results of operations,
financial position or cash flows.  

  In March 2005, FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting
for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  (FIN 47) an interpretation of
FASB Statement No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations 
(SFAS 143), clarifies the term conditional asset retirement obligation as used
in SFAS 143. The term refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset
retirement activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are
conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the
entity. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is
unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and (or) method
of settlement. Thus, the timing and (or) method of settlement may be
conditional on a future event. Accordingly, an entity is required to recognize
a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if
the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated.   

50     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 1.       Nature of Business and
Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

  The fair value of a
liability for the conditional asset retirement obligation should be recognized
when incurred generally upon acquisition, construction, or development and (or)
through the normal operation of the asset. Uncertainty about the timing and
(or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should
be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information
exists. FIN 47 was effective for fiscal years ending after December 15,
2005. The adoption did not result in a material impact to our results of
operations, financial position or cash flows.  

  In May 2005,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, ( SFAS 154 ),  Accounting Changes and Error
Corrections.  This statement replaces APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3
and changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change
in accounting principle. APB No. 20 previously required that most
voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized by including in net
income of the period of the change the cumulative effect of changing to the
accounting principle. SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior
periods  financial statements of voluntary changes in accounting principles. SFAS
154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 154
will have a significant impact on the results of operations, financial position
or cash flows.  

     Note 2.       Marketable
Securities 

  Marketable
securities consist of investments in securities offered by French banks,
primarily bond portfolios, that are designated by these banks as  risk free or
minimum risk instruments.   As of December 31,
marketable securities consisted of the following (in thousands):  

Note 3.       Inventories 

  Inventories
consist of the following at December 31 (in thousands):  

Note 4.   Other
Current Assets   

  Other
current assets consist of the following at December 31 (in thousands):  

51     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note
5.       Property and Equipment 

  Property
and equipment consist of the following at December 31 (in thousands):  

Depreciation expense, for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $1,558,000,
$1,673,000 and $1,796,000, respectively.  

    Note 6.        Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (in
thousands): 

(1)             The
amount of goodwill related to GPI-SAS for 2005 and 2004 above, included
the net effect of foreign currency exchange of $12,000, and $195,000, respectively. 

  Amortization expense for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $282,000, $324,000
and $326,000, respectively:  

52  

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

     Note 7.     Accrued
Expenses 

  Accrued
expenses consist of the following at December 31 (in thousands):  

Note 8.       Long-Term Debt and
Pledged Assets 

  Long-term
debt consists of the following at December 31 (in thousands):  

GPI-USA entered into a $995,000 loan transaction
( Loan ) with Jackson Federal Bank, a federal savings bank ( Jackson ), on March 5,
2002. The interest rate equals the greater of 8% per annum ( Floor Rate ) or
362.5 basis points over the average of the London Interbank Offered Rates for
six month dollar deposit in the London market based on quotations of major banks
( LIBOR ). The interest rate shall not be less than the Floor Rate or more than
12% per annum, nor shall the interest rate increase or decrease by more than
two percentage points per annum during any twelve month period or one-half
percentage point per annum during any three month period. The maturity date is March 1,
2012. The Loan is payable   

53     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 8.       Long-Term Debt and Pledged Assets (Continued) 

  in arrears in equal
monthly installments of principal and interest of approximately $7,300 (based
upon a thirty year amortization schedule) beginning April 1, 2002 and
continuing on the first day of each month through and including March 1,
2012, at which time the entire remaining principal balance of $871,000 will be
due and payable. The Loan is secured by a Deed of Trust, Security Agreement,
Assignment of Rents and Fixture Filing ( Deed of Trust ) encumbering the
Company s Las Vegas, Nevada headquarters. We executed a Guaranty in favor of
Jackson by which we guaranteed the obligations of GPI-USA under the Loan
and Deed of Trust and the related loan documents executed in connection with
the Loan. The Loan may now be prepaid in part or in whole at any time without a
prepayment premium. The Deed of Trust restricts GPI-USA from encumbering
or transferring (1) the Company s Las Vegas, Nevada headquarters; and (2) ownership
interests in GPI-USA. Further, the Deed of Trust also grants to Jackson a
security interest in GPI-USA s personal property, including, but not
limited to, machinery, furniture, fixtures, licenses and income.  

  In February 2001, GPI-SAS borrowed
approximately $2.2 million from an unaffiliated party. Principal and
interest payments are due quarterly in the original approximate amount of
$116,000 until February 2008, varying with the fluctuation in the Euro to
U.S. Dollar rate. Interest accrues at the fixed rate of 5.1% per annum. The
loan is guaranteed by our majority stockholder, Holding Wilson, S.A. Under the
terms of the GPI-SAS loan agreement, GPI-SAS must comply with
certain financial covenants that are calculated annually based on the financial
statements of GPI-SAS. Specifically, GPI-SAS  ratio of total loans
and similar debt (inclusive of capital lease obligations) to operating cash
flow (defined under French GAAP as operating income before depreciation and
provisions) must not exceed 1.7, and the ratio of total loans and similar debt
(inclusive of capital lease obligations) to stockholders  equity must not
exceed 0.5. GPI-SAS  actual ratio of total loans and similar debt
(inclusive of capital lease obligations) to operating cash flow and ratio of
total loans and similar debt (inclusive of capital lease obligations) to
stockholders  equity were 0.25 and 0.12, respectively, as of December 31,
2005.  

  On January 9,
2004, GPI-SAS entered into a 350,000 Euro (approximately
$447,000 U.S. at the January 9, 2004 exchange rate) loan transaction,
with Banque Nationale de Paris (B.N.P.), a French bank, for the purposes of
building expansion in France. The general terms of this loan are as follows:  

               Interest Rate  . 3.6% fixed. 

               Maturity Date  . The maturity date is January 2010. 

               Security.   The loan is secured by a
mortgage on the building premises. 

               Monthly Payment:    4,720 Euros; no balloon payment. 

54     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 8.       Long-Term Debt and Pledged Assets (Continued) 

  Estimated annual principal
maturities of long-term debt and future minimum payments under capital lease
obligations at December 31, 2005 are as follows (in thousands):  

Note 9.       Commitments and
Contingencies 

   Operating Lease
Obligations   

  The
following is a schedule by years of future minimum lease payments under
operating leases as of December 31, 2005 (in thousands):  

Rent expense, totaled
$267,000, $285,000 and $319,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.  

    Legal Proceedings    

  We are engaged in disputes
and claims arising in the normal course of business. We believe the ultimate
outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on the
consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

    Commitments    

  On October 25, 2001,
GPI-SAS entered into an exclusive patent license agreement with Enpat, Inc.
The subject patents were subsequently sold by Enpat, Inc. to Shuffle
Master Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2004. Thereafter, in the second quarter of
2005, Shuffle Master Inc. sold 50% of its rights in the subject   

55     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 9.       Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) 

  patents
to International Game Technology. The agreement grants GPI-SAS (and its
affiliated GPIC companies) the exclusive rights to manufacture and distribute a
gaming chip tracking system and method, in the U.S.A., which utilizes gaming
chips with embedded electronic circuits scanned by antennas in gaming chip
placement areas (gaming tables and casino cage), or RFID technology. The
duration of the exclusive agreement is for the life of the patents, the last of
which expire in 2015. Minimum annual royalty payments of $125,000 are required
to be made by GPI-SAS over the remaining life of the exclusive patent license
agreement.  

   Note
10.       Income Tax Matters 

  The
Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability approach
required by SFAS No. 109. The asset and liability approach requires the
recognition of deferred income tax liabilities and assets for the expected
future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts
of and the tax basis of the Company s assets and liabilities. Future income tax
benefits attributable to temporary differences are recognized to the extent
that realization of such benefits is more likely than not. These future tax
benefits are measured by applying currently enacted tax rates. The following
table provides an analysis of the Company s provision for income taxes for the
years ended December 31 (in thousands):  

Pre-tax
income (loss) consisted of the following (in thousands):  

56  

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   Note
10.       Income Tax Matters (Continued) 

  A reconciliation of our
income tax expense as compared to the tax expense calculated by applying the
statutory federal tax rate to the income before income taxes for the years
ended December 31, is as follows:  

The valuation allowance for the year ended December 31,
2004 was established due to accumulated losses in the U.S. and the uncertainty
of future taxable income necessary to utilize deferred tax assets. In 2005,
GPI-USA received a non-cash dividend from GPI-SAS. In addition, management
intends to distribute additional future non-cash dividends from GPI-SAS to
GPI-USA. Management believes that the taxable income resulting from these
dividends will result in full utilization of prior accumulated losses in the
U.S., accordingly, the valuation allowance related to U.S. operating losses and
other deferred tax assets, exclusive of foreign tax credits, has been reduced. The
aforementioned dividends generate foreign tax credits which expire if not
utilized within 10 years. The Company has established a valuation allowance
related to these foreign tax credits for amounts which are estimated to expire
before usage. The Company also continues to record a full valuation allowance
on state deferred assets due to the uncertainty of future state taxable income.
The Company s net operating loss carryforwards expire between the years 2022
and 2024, and foreign tax credits expire in 2015.  

57     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 10.       Income Tax Matters (Continued) 

  The primary components of
the net deferred income tax assets at December 31 were as follows (in
thousands):  

Deferred income taxes were
previously not provided on the excess book basis in the shares of GPI-SAS
because this basis difference was not expected to reverse in the foreseeable
future as we did not intend to remit the earnings of GPI-SAS to GPI-USA.
Effective in the first quarter of 2005, we provided deferred taxes on the
excess book basis in the shares of GPI-SAS, as we now intend to distribute
non-cash dividends from our French subsidiary in 2005 and 2006.  

     Note 11.       Stock Option
Programs and Warrants 

  We have stock option programs, which consist of the
1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  Incentive Plan ) and the 1994 Directors 
Stock Option Plan (the  Directors  Plan ). The Incentive Plan provides for the
grant of stock options to executive officers, key employees, outside
consultants and employee-directors. On July 29, 1996, the Board of
Directors amended and stockholders subsequently approved an increase in the
aggregate shares issuable under the Incentive Plan to 1,000,000 from 500,000
shares. In general, an initial option grant under the Incentive Plan vests over
a four year period, with one-fourth of the option grant vesting at the end of
each year, however, the vesting schedule for individual participants may vary. The
options granted under the Incentive Plan expire 10 years after the date of
grant.  

  The Directors  Plan, as amended in September 2002,
provides that each non-employee director, upon joining the Board of Directors,
will receive an option to purchase 6,000 shares of common stock. In October 2003,
the Board of Directors amended and the stockholders subsequently approved an   

58     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 11.       Stock Option Programs and Warrants (Continued) 

  amendment to the Directors 
Plan to: (i) increase the number of shares of our common stock for which
options may be granted to 150,000, an increase of 75,000, and (ii) extend
the expiration date of the plan to January 31, 2009 from January 31,
2004, an increase of five years. The initial option grant vests over a 3-year
period, with one-third of the option grant vesting at the end of each year. At
the beginning of the fourth year of service on the Board of Directors, and each
year thereafter, each non-employee director receives an annual grant to
purchase 2,000 shares of common stock. In addition, each year each non-employee
director receives options to purchase 1,500 shares of common stock for serving
on the following committees of the Board of Directors for at least six months
prior to the date of grant: the Audit Committee; the Compensation Committee;
and the Compliance Committee. No option is exercisable sooner than six months
and one day after the date of the grant. The options expire on the tenth
anniversary of the date of grant, nine months after retirement or two years
after death. Options covering 28,500 shares were granted to non-employee
directors during the period of January 1, 2005 through December 31,
2005, at a weighted-average exercise price of $14.28 per share.  

  The
following is a summary of option activity for the years ended December 31,
2003, 2004 and 2005:    

(1)             Does not include
warrants of 55,000 that were exercised during the fourth quarter of 2004. 

  (2)             Does not include
warrants of 79,500 that were exercised during 2005. 

59  

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   Note 11.       Stock
Option Programs and Warrants (Continued) 

  The
following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding and
exercisable options:  

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, a maximum of
1,000,000 and 150,000 shares, of common stock have been reserved for issuance
under the Incentive Plan and the Directors  Plan, respectively. The Incentive
Plan expired on January 30, 2004, except as to the stock options outstanding on
that date. None of the options can be granted at less than the fair market
value of our common stock on the date of grant.  

  Pursuant to the terms of his employment agreement, our
Chief Executive Officer was granted 100,000 stock options in 2002 under our
Incentive Plan, which vest if and when we report the audited net profit after
tax of at least $2.0 million. These performance-based options are therefore
subject to variable accounting. Compensation expense of $778,000 was recorded
in the fourth quarter of 2005 when we assessed that it was probable that the
performance vesting condition would be met. The compensation expense was
measured based on the intrinsic value of the performance options as of December 31,
2005.  

  Prior to the Combination with GPI-SAS, GPIC had
granted options, warrants, or other convertible securities or rights to
purchase GPIC common stock to some of GPI-USA s employees and directors. As
part of the consideration for the GPI-SAS shares in connection with the
Combination, GPIC issued to the former stockholders of GPI-SAS , antidilutive warrants to purchase that number of
shares of GPIC common stock which equals the total number of shares of GPIC
common stock issuable pursuant those options, warrants, or other convertible
securities or rights to purchase GPIC common stock which were outstanding
immediately prior to the closing. The former stockholders of GPI-SAS can only
exercise those antidilutive warrants, however, if, when and to the extent that
GPIC issues common stock upon exercise or conversion of any of those options,
warrants, securities or rights. The antidilutive warrants will expire
30 days after the date on which GPIC notifies the antidilutive warrant
holder that the last of those options, warrants, securities or rights has been
exercised, canceled or terminated. The purpose of the warrants is to provide
antidilutive protection to the former stockholders of GPI-SAS in the event any
of those options; warrants, securities or rights are exercised after the
closing.   

  The former GPI-SAS
stockholders were issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 459,610 shares,
of which 84,610 warrants were immediately exercised at the close of the
Combination, 55,000 warrants were exercised in the fourth quarter of 2004, and
79,500 warrants were exercised during 2005. In addition, 149,000 warrants were
cancelled or terminated on November 17, 2005, leaving a balance of 91,500
warrants exercisable at December 31, 2005. In the fourth quarter of 2005,
21,366 designated stock options were exercised, of which 21,366 antidiluted warrants
may be exercised in 2006 at $0.01 per share.  

60     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 12.       Allowance for
Doubtful Accounts 

   We record, based on periodic
reviews of our accounts receivables, allowances for estimated uncollectible
trade accounts receivable. A summary of provisions for estimated bad debts and
the related write-offs related to the allowance for doubtful accounts are as
follows (in thousands):   

Note 13.       Related Party
Transactions 

  Ron-Lyn Enterprises, a company co-owned by Ron Coiro,
former employee and East Coast Sales Manager of GPI-USA, provided
miscellaneous table game plastic accessories to GPI-SAS, including
dealing shoes, money paddles and discard holders. Since December 31, 2004,
we have not purchased any products from Ron-Lyn Enterprises. For the fiscal
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, GPI-USA paid Mr. Coiro,
through Ron-Lyn Enterprises, approximately $0, $186,000 and $113,300,
respectively.  

  We lease our main 34,000 square foot manufacturing
facility located in San Luis Rio Colorado, Mexico from an entity controlled by
the family of Frank Moreno, General Manager of GPI-Mexico. The current
lease was extended in April 2004, for an additional five years at the same
monthly rent amount of approximately $0.35 per square foot, or $12,000. If we
elect, at our discretion, to use more or less square footage, our rent will be
increased or decreased accordingly. On March 1, 2006, we amended our
current lease for an additional 17,500 square feet. This extension has the same
five term period at the same monthly rent amount of approximately $0.35 per
square feet, or $6,100. We also own an approximately 66,000 square foot
facility used for the manufacture of playing cards, tables, and layouts
products that is adjacent to the leased building.  

  Neither Mr. Coiro nor
Mr. Moreno is a director or executive officer. The charter of the Board of
Directors requires the Audit Committee to review related party transactions
involving our directors and executive officers.  

     Note 14.       Business Segments 

  SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures About Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information  requires public business enterprises to
report selected reporting information about operating segments in annual
financial statements and requires public business enterprises to report
selected information about operating segments in interim and annual financial
reports. We manufacture and sell casino table game equipment and have determined
that we operate in one operating segment, which is casino game equipment
products. The segment is comprised of the following product lines: casino
chips, table layouts, playing cards, gaming furniture, dice, and table
accessories and other products. Although the Company derives its revenues from
a number of different product lines, the Company does not allocate resources
based on the operating results from the individual product lines nor does it
manage each individual product line as a separate business unit.  

61     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 14.       Business Segments (Continued) 

  The following tables
present certain data by geographic area as of and for the periods ended December 31
(in thousands):  

(1)             Includes
Canada, Africa, Australia, South America and other countries.  

62     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 15.       Pension Plan 

  GPI-SAS
sponsors a noncontributing, defined benefit plan for both its salaried and
hourly-rated employees who meet certain age and service requirements. The
plan calls for benefits to be paid to eligible employees at retirement based on
years of participation and compensation rates in the last years prior to
retirement. The following amounts relate to GPI-SAS s defined benefit
pension plan (in thousands):  

(1)             Comprised
of equity securities. 

Net
pension expense for the years ended December 31 consists of the following
(in thousands):   

63     

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 15.       Pension Plan
(Continued) 

  In accordance with Mexican
Labor Law, we provide seniority premium benefits to our employees under certain
circumstances. These benefits consist of a one-time payment equivalent to 12
days wages for each year of service (at the employee s most recent salary, but
not to exceed twice the legal minimum wage), payable to all employees who are
involuntarily terminated, with 15 or more years of service. At December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, we had seniority premium benefits accrued of approximately
$134,000 for all three years.  

  We maintain a 401(k) plan
for employees in the United States who work over one year and are 21 years of
age or older. During 2003, the former Paul-Son Gaming Supplies, Inc. plan
and the former Bud Jones Company plan were combined into one plan. Contributions
to the plan were based on the amounts contributed by the eligible employees.
Eligible employees could elect to contribute up to the lesser of the IRS limit
or fifteen percent of their earnings into the plan. We contribute $0.50 for
each $1.00 contributed by a participant in the plan up to four percent of the
participant s wages. The 401(k) employer contributions in the U.S. made
during the period ending December 31, 2005 and 2004 under the combined
plan were $48,000 and $36,000 respectively for the GPI-USA plan. The 401(k) employee
contributions in the U.S made during the year ended December 31, 2003
under the former Paul-Son Gaming Supplies, Inc. plan was $19,000.  

     Selected
Quarterly Financial Information   

In the second and fourth quarters of 2004 and 2005,
the increases in net revenues were primarily due to the new larger casino
openings in the United States and in Asia.  

64  

Item 9.                              Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.   

  None.  

     Item 9A.                      Controls and Procedures.   

  The Company maintains disclosure controls and
procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed
in our reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time period specified in the SEC s rules and
forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer.  

  Company management, including the Chief Executive
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, has conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act
Rule 13a-15(c) as of December 31, 2005. Based on that evaluation, the Chief
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure
controls and procedures are not effective in ensuring that all material
information required to be filed in this annual report has been made known to
them in a timely fashion, due to the following matter.   

  In March 2006, in connection with the Company s
preparation of this Form 10-K, the Company became aware of a material weakness
relating to the Company s internal controls over its financial reporting
involving the design and operation of controls over share-based payment
accounting. Specifically, the controls in place were not adequate to ensure
that the correct accounting treatment was used for stock options conditioned on
the Company attaining a specific performance target, which were granted to the
Chief Executive Officer in September 2002 (see Item 12). Prior to filing
this Form 10-K, the Company has determined that variable accounting is required
with respect to these particular stock options in order to comply with
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The
Company recorded the resulting compensation expense in the fourth quarter of
2005, which was the proper period. Therefore, the Company has appropriately
recognized the expense in the financial statements included in this Form 10-K.  

  The Company has not granted any other such
performance-based stock options or similar securities that have unknown vesting
dates to any other employee or person and the chances of this reoccurring in
the future is remote. Nonetheless, the Company intends to implement procedures
to remediate the ineffective disclosure controls to assure that the financial
reporting for all share-based compensation is in compliance with generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.  

  There were no changes in
internal controls over financial reporting during the fourth fiscal quarter of
2005 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company s internal controls over financial reporting.  

     Item 9B.                     Other Information  . 

  None.  

     PART III   

     Item 10.                       Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.   

  The sections labeled  Nominees for Election of
Directors,   Board of Directors and Committees of the Board,   Compliance with Section 16(a) of
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934  and  Executive Officers  of our
definitive Proxy Statement to be filed within 120 days after our fiscal year
end of December 31, 2005, are incorporated herein by reference.  

65     

We have adopted a Code of
Ethics that applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer,
Corporate Controller and other finance organization employees and a Code of
Conduct that applies to all employees. The form of the Code of Ethics,
including the Code of Conduct, is publicly available on our website at   www.gpigaming.com  . If we make any substantive amendments to
the Code of Ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a
provision of the Code of Ethics to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer or Corporate Controller, we will disclose the nature of such amendment
or waiver on that website. Our Corporate Governance charters for the Audit and
Nominating and Governance Committees of the Board of Directors can also be
found on our website.  

     Item 11.                       Executive Compensation.   

  The sections labeled  Compensation
of Directors,   Executive Compensation,   Employment Contracts and
Change-in-Control Arrangements,   Aggregated Option Exercises in 2005 and
Option Value at December 31, 2005,   Pension Plan  and  Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  of our definitive Proxy
Statement to be filed within 120 days after our fiscal year end of December 31,
2005, are incorporated herein by reference.  

     Item 12.                       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters.   

     Equity
Compensation Plan Information   

  The
following table sets forth certain information as of December 31, 2005
about our equity compensation plans under which our equity securities are
authorized for issuance.  

(a)   

(b)   

(c)   

Plan Category   

Number of securities 
  to be issued upon 
  exercise of 
  outstanding options, 
  warrants and rights   

Weighed-average 
  exercise price of 
  outstanding options, 
  warrants and rights   

Number of securities 
  remaining available for 
  future issuance under 
  equity compensation 
  plans (excluding 
  securities reflected 
  in column (a))   

Equity
  compensation plans approved by security holders  

519,133  

(1)  

$  

4.08  

32,500  

(2)  

Equity
  compensation plans not approved by security holders  

None  

None  

None  

Total   

519,133  

$  

4.08  

32,500  

(1)             Reflects the
weighted-average outstanding stock options to purchase 335,634 shares of common
stock under our 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan, and stock options to purchase
92,000 shares of common stock under our 1994 Directors  Stock Option Plan, and
for an aggregate of 427,634 shares. The antidilution warrants, issued in
connection with the Combination, are not included in this table, as they do not
represent compensation. 

  (2)             These shares were
available for future issuance under our 1994 Directors  Stock Option Plan. 

  See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information about our equity-based
compensation plans.  

    Vesting
of Stock Options.      Pursuant to the terms of an
Employment Agreement dated September 12, 2002, between us and Gerard P.
Charlier, we granted Mr. Charlier stock options under our 1994 Long-Term
Incentive Plan to purchase an aggregate of 300,000 shares of our common stock,
each at an exercise price of $3.40 per share. We reported in a Report on Form 8
K filed on May 6, 2005 that the stock options as to 100,000 shares vested on
March 31, 2005, and, as such, became exercisable during the five year period
following such vesting date, or April 1, 2005 through March 31, 2010. The
Employment Agreement  

66     

provides that the stock
options as to 100,000 shares vested if and when our audited annual consolidated
financial statements showed net income meeting the designated threshold per the
agreement. Upon additional review of the matter, we have determined that the
stock options did not vest, because if vested, the compensation expense
associated with the vesting would have caused our net profit after tax to be
less than the designated threshold. The terms of the stock options do not
exclude the effect of such compensation expense in determining whether the net
profit threshold was satisfied. Accordingly, the beneficial ownership table
included in the Form 8-K filed on May 6, 2005 which gives effect to the vesting
was not accurate, but the beneficial ownership table included in our 2005 proxy
statement was accurate as of the date reflected in that table.  

  Mr. Charlier s stock options as to 100,000
shares, vested during the fourth quarter of 2005. The information in our
definitive Proxy Statement, to the extent applicable, will reflect the vesting
of such shares.  

  The sub-section labeled  Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  of our
definitive Proxy to be filed within 120 days after our fiscal year end of
December 31, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference.  

     Item 13.                       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.   

  The section labeled  Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions  of our definitive Proxy Statement to be
filed within 120 days after our fiscal year end of December 31, 2005, is
incorporated herein by reference.  

     Item 14.                       Principal Accountant Fees and Services.   

  The sub-section labeled  Principal
Accountant Fees and Services  of our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed
within 120 days after our fiscal year end of December 31, 2005, is
incorporated herein by reference.  

     PART IV   

     Item 15.                       Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.   

  (a)(1)        Financial Statements      

  Included in Part II of this report:  

  Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2005
and 2004.  

  Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003.  

  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity and
Other Compre hensive Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003.  

  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years
Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.  

  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

  (a)(2)        Financial Statement Schedules      

  All required schedules are omitted because of the
absence of conditions under which they are required or because the required
information is given in the financial statements or notes thereto.  

67     

(a)(3) and
(c)        Exhibits      

2.01 

Agreement and Plan of Exchange and Stock Purchase by
  and between Paul-Son Gaming Corporation and Etablissements Bourgogne et
  Grasset S.A., as amended by the First Amendment thereto, incorporated herein
  by reference to: Annex A to the Company's definitive proxy statement dated
  August 9, 2002, filed with the SEC on August 9, 2002 (the  Proxy
  Statement ).  

3.01  

Certificate of Amendment
  and Restatement of Articles of Incorporation of Paul-Son Gaming Corporation,
  incorporated herein by reference to Annex B to the Proxy Statement.  

3.02  

Amended and Restated
  Bylaws of Paul-Son Gaming Corporation, incorporated herein by reference to
  Annex C to the Proxy Statement.  

4.01  

Specimen Common Stock
  Certificate for the Common Stock of Paul-Son Gaming Corporation incorporated
  herein by reference from our registration statement on Form S-1 (SEC
  No. 33-74758), Part II, Item 16, Exhibit 4.01.  

10.01  

Paul-Son Gaming
  Corporation 1994 Directors' Stock Option Plan (as amended September 12,
  2002), incorporated herein by reference to: Annex A of our definitive
  proxy statement dated October 3, 2003 filed with the SEC on
  October 3, 2003.*  

10.02  

Paul-Son Gaming
  Corporation 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan (as amended July 29, 1996)
  incorporated herein by reference from our Registration Statement on Form S-8
  dated April 28, 1997, Exhibit 10.01.*  

10.03  

Lease dated May 17,
  1993, by and between Paul-Son Mexicana S.A. de C.V., as lessee, and Copropledad
  Arte Y Diseno, as lessor incorporated herein by reference from our
  registration statement on Form S-1 (SEC No. 33-74758),
  Part II, Item 16, Exhibit 10.05.  

10.04  

Promissory Note secured
  by Deed of Trust dated February 22, 2002, in favor of Jackson Federal
  Bank; Deed of Trust, Security Agreement, Assignment of Rents and Fixture
  Filing dated February 22, 2002; Repayment Guaranty dated
  February 22, 2002; Subordination and Attornment Agreement dated
  February 22, 2002; and Assignment of Leases and Rents dated
  February 22, 2002, incorporated by reference from our Form 8-K dated
  March 5, 2002, Item 7, Exhibit 10.01.  

10.05  

Employment Agreement
  dated September 12, 2002 between Gerard Charlier and the Company,
  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form
  10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2002.*  

10.06  

Employment Agreement
  dated September 12, 2002 between Eric Endy and the Company, incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
  quarter ended August 31, 2002. Amendment dated March 27, 2003 to
  Employment Agreement between Eric Endy and us, incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.06 to our Annual
  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.*  

10.07  

Lease Agreement dated
  March 26, 2003, between Copropledad Arte Y Diseno, as lessor, and
  Paul-Son Mexicana, S.A. de C.V., as lessee, incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10.07 to Annual
  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.  

10.08  

Loan Agreement dated
  February 21, 2001, between Bourgogne et Grasset, as borrower, and BNP
  Paribes, S.A., as lender (English summary of French language document)
  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.08 to our Annual Report on Form
  10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.  

10.09  

Loan Agreement executed
  January 9, 2004, between Bourgogne et Grasset, as borrower, and BNP
  Paribes, S.A., as lender, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.09 to our
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.  

68     

*                       Management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed as
exhibits to this Form 10-K by Item 601(b)(10)(iii) of
Regulation S-K. 

69  

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.   

GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION  

March 31, 2006  

By:  

/s/
  G RARD CHARLIER  

G rard Charlier    
  President and Chief Executive Officer    

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.  

March 31, 2006 

By:  

/s/ G RARD CHARLIER  

G rard Charlier   
  Director, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)    

March 31, 2006  

By:  

/s/
  MELODY SULLIVAN  

Melody Sullivan   
  Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)    

March 31, 2006  

By:  

/s/
  ERIC P. ENDY  

Eric P. Endy 
    Director    

March 31, 2006  

By:  

/s/
  PAUL S. DENNIS  

Paul S. Dennis 
    Director    

March 31, 2006  

By:  

/s/
  ALAIN THIEFFRY  

Alain Thieffry 
    Director    

March 31, 2006  

By:  

/s/
  BENOIT AUCOUTURIER  

Benoit
  Aucouturier 
    Director    

March 31, 2006  

By:  

/s/
  ROBERT KELLY  

Robert Kelly 
    Director    

March 31, 2006  

By:  

/s/
  ELISABETH CARRETT   

Elisabeth
  Carrett  
    Director    

70  

EXHIBIT INDEX   

EXHIBIT NO. 

DESCRIPTION   

10.10  

Second Amendment
  to Lease Agreement dated March 1, 2006 between Copropledad Arte y
  Diseno, as lessor, and Paul-Son Mexicana, S.A. de C.V., as lessee.  

21.01  

List of
  subsidiaries.  

23.01  

Consent of
  Deloitte    Touche LLP  

31.1  

Certification of
  Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and
  Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended.  

31.2  

Certification of
  Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and
  Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended.  

32  

Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief
  Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to
  Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

71  

<EX-10.10>
 2
 a06-7791_1ex10d10.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

EXHIBIT 10.10   

SECOND AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT   

THIS SECOND
AMENDMENT (THE  SECOND AMENDMENT ) TO THE LEASE AGREEMENT ( THE AGREEMENT )
DATED MARCH 26, 2003 BETWEEN    COPROPIEDAD ARTE Y DISENO   
(THE  LESSOR ) REPREWENTED BY MR.   FRANCISCO JAVIER
MORENO SANCHEZ AND    PAUL-SON MEXICANA, S.A. DE
C.V.      (THE
 LESSEE ) REPRESENTED BY MR. GERARD P. CHARLIER, IS NOW ENTERED BY
AND BETWEEN THE LESSOR AND LESSEE PURSUANT TO THE FOLOWING RECITALS AND
CLAUSES:  

RECITALS   

The LESSOR and LESSEE
represent:  

(a)                        Effective January 22, 2005, the LESSEE changed
its name to GPI MEXICANA S.A. DE C.V.  

(b)                       Effective March 1, 2006, LESSOR agrees to lease
to LESSEE, who agrees to lease from LESSOR, an addition 17,500 square feet in
the BUILDING as set forth in Paragraph 1.3 of the AGREEMENT pursuant to the
terms of Paragraphs 1.4 and 1.5 thereof concerning RENT and TERM. Blueprints of
the current portions of the BUILDING leased by LESSOR to LESSEE pursuant to
this SECOND AMENDMENT are attached to this SECOND AMENDMENT as Exhibit  D .  

(c)                        All other terms and conditions of the AGREEMENT remain
unchanged and in full force and effect.  

IN WITNESS WHREOF,
Parties and witness execute this SECOND AMENDMENT in the city of Las Vegas as
of March 01, 2006.  

LESSOR  

LESSEE  

/s/ Francisco Javier Moreno Sanches  

/s/ Gerard P. Charlier  

Copropiedad Arte
  y Diseno  

GPI Mexicana S.A. de C.V.,  
  formerly Paul-Son Mexicana S.A. de C.V.  

Represented by:  

Represented by:  

Francisco Javier
  Moreno Sanches  

Gerard P.
  Charlier  

WITNESS:  

WITNESS:  

/s/   C.P.A. Carlos
  Alfaro  

/s/ Gay A. Nordfelt  

C.P.A. Carlos Alfaro  

Gay A. Nordfelt  

</EX-10.10>

<EX-21.01>
 3
 a06-7791_1ex21d01.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

EXHIBIT 21.01   

     GAMING PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION   

     LIST OF
SUBSIDIARIES   

Name 

State/Country of 
  Incorporation   

Parent   

Gaming Partners
  International SAS (1)  

France  

Gaming Partners
  International Corporation  

Gaming Partners International
  USA, Inc.(1)  

Nevada  

Gaming Partners
  International Corporation  

GPI Mexicana, S.A. de
  C.V.(2)  

Mexico  

Gaming Partners
  International Corporation  

(1)             Effective date of name
change was September 1, 2004. 

  (2)             Effective date of name
change was January 22, 2005. 

</EX-21.01>

<EX-23.01>
 4
 a06-7791_1ex23d01.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

EXHIBIT 23.01   

     CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM   

  We consent to the
incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 33-84726, 33-84728,
333-25981, and 333-114019 of Gaming Partners International
Corporation (formerly known as Paul-Son Gaming Corporation) and Subsidiaries on
Form S-8 and Amendment No. 3 to Registration Statement No. 333-86010
of Gaming Partners International Corporation and Subsidiaries on Form S-3,
of our report dated March 31, 2006, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
of Gaming Partners International Corporation and Subsidiaries for the year
ended December 31, 2005.  

  DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP  

  Las Vegas, Nevada 
March 28, 2006  

</EX-23.01>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 a06-7791_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.1   

     CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
   Section 302
Certification  

  I, Gerard Charlier,
certify that:  

  1.                    I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Gaming Partners International
Corporation; 

  2.                    Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                    Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

  4.                    The registrant s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

  a)                  Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  b)                 [Reserved] 

  c)                  Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  d)                 Disclosed in this
report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                    The registrant s
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  a)                  All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial data information; and 

  b)                 Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.  

Date: March 31, 2006 

By:  

/s/ G RARD
  CHARLIER  

G rard Charlier,   President and Chief
  Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 a06-7791_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.2   

     CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING
OFFICER 
   Section 302 Certification  

  I, Melody Sullivan,
certify that:  

  1.                    I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Gaming Partners International
Corporation; 

  2.                    Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                    Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this report; 

  4.                    The registrant s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

  a)                  Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared; 

  b)                 [Reserved] 

  c)                  Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  d)                 Disclosed in this
report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                    The registrant s
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  a)                  All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial data information; and 

  b)                 Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.  

Date: March 31, 2006 

By:  

/s/ MELODY
  SULLIVAN  

Melody Sullivan, 
    Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 7
 a06-7791_1ex32.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT
32   

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  In connection with
the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Gaming Partners International
Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2005, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), G rard
Charlier, as Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Melody Sullivan, as
Chief Financial Officer of the Company, each hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
  1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002, that, to the best of his or her knowledge:  

  1.                   The Report fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

  2.                   The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  

GAMING PARTNERS
  INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION  

Date: March 31,
  2006  

By:  

/s/ G RARD CHARLIER  

G rard Charlier, 
    President and Chief Executive Officer    

Date: March 31,
  2006  

By:  

/s/ MELODY SULLIVAN  

Melody Sullivan, 
    Chief Financial Officer    

This certification is being furnished to the SEC as an
exhibit to the Report pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by the of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of   18 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

  A signed copy of this written statement required by Section 906
has been provided by the Company and will be retained by the Company and
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32>

