<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_895648_0000950137-06-004054_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3942046</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1974305</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1258093</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>112</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>33</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-06-004054.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331173346
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-06-004054
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		34
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895648
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				421283895
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11656
		FILM NUMBER:		06730258

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		110 N WACKER DRIVE
		STREET 2:		STE 3100
		CITY:			CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60606
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3129605000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		110 N WACKER DRIVE
		STREET 2:		STE 3100
		CITY:			CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60606

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Ke71t8Ikd/IAGSmubee3gLSBbcKtGSWbfM2eF3iPP0aChzMVmqOikwIgTMJptWSY
 0iBeQyTYdDdkWxvyefobtw==

 0000950137-06-004054.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 c02442e10vk.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form  10-K  

Commission File
Number  1-11656  

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

(312) 960-5000  

(Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act: 

Title of Each Class  
       
      Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered  

Common Stock, $.01 par value

New York Stock Exchange 

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

New York Stock Exchange 

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.     YES              NO   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.     YES              NO   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     YES              NO   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation  S-K  is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form  10-K  or any
amendment to this
Form  10-K.         

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange Act. (Check one): Large accelerated
filer              Accelerated
filer              Non-accelerated
filer   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange
Act).     YES              NO   

On June 30, 2005, the last business day of the
registrant s most recently completed second quarter, the
aggregate market value of the shares of common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately
$8.667 billion based upon the closing price of the common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape on such date.

As of March 24, 2006, there were 241,005,634 shares of
the registrant s common stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Portions of the proxy statement for the annual stockholders
meeting to be held on May 16, 2006 are incorporated by
reference into Part III.

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

Annual Report on
Form  10-K  

December 31, 2005 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Item No.  

Page Number  

Part I   

1. 

Business  

1 

1A. 

Risk Factors  

7 

1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments  

16 

2. 

Properties  

16 

3. 

Legal Proceedings  

28 

4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders  

29 

Part II   

5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities  

29 

6. 

Selected Financial Data  

31 

7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

33 

7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk  

50 

8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data  

50 

9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

51 

9A. 

Controls and Procedures  

51 

9B. 

Other Information  

55 

Part III   

10. 

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant  

55 

11. 

Executive Compensation  

55 

12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

55 

13. 

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions  

56 

14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

56 

Part IV   

15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement
    Schedules  

57 

Signatures   

58 

Consolidated Financial Statements   

F-1 

Consolidated Financial Statement
    Schedule   

F-55 

Exhibit Index   

S-1 

Restated Certificate of Incorporation    
     Bylaws    
     Form of Common Stock Certificate    
     Rights Agreement    
     Redemption Rights Agreement    
     Redemption Rights Agreement    
     Redemption Rights Agreement    
     Redemption Rights Agreement    
     Redemption Rights Agreement    
     Redemption Rights Agreement    
     Redemption Rights Agreement    
     Form of Registration Rights Agreement    
     Rights Agreement    
     Amendment to Rights Agreement    
     Letter Agreement Concerning Rights Agreement    
     Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Operating Partnership    
     Stockholders Agreement    
     Amendment to Stockholders Agreement    
     Operating Agreement    
     Amendment to the Operating Agreement    
     Letter Amendment to the Operating Agreement    
     Amendment to the Operating Agreement    
     Amended and Restated Operating Agreement    
     Amendment to Amended and Restated Operating Agreement    
     Amendment to Amended and Restated Operating Agreement    
     Form of Restricted Stock Agreement    
     List of Subsidiaries    
     Consent    
     Consent    
     Certification    
     Certification    
     Certification    
     Certification    

i

Table of Contents   

PART I 

Item 1.  
     
      Business   

All references to numbered Notes are to specific footnotes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements of General Growth
Properties, Inc. ( General Growth  or the
 Company ) as included in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K 
( Annual Report ). The descriptions included in such
Notes are incorporated into the applicable Item response by
reference. The following discussion should be read in
conjunction with such Consolidated Financial Statements and
related Notes. The terms  we,   us  and
 our  may also be used to refer to General Growth and
its subsidiaries. See also the Glossary at the end of
Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for definitions
of selected terms used in this Annual Report.

Overview 

General Growth is a self-administered and self-managed real
estate investment trust, referred to as a  REIT. 
General Growth is a Delaware corporation and was organized in
1986.

Our business is focused in two main areas:

Retail and Other.  Through this segment of our business,
    we own, operate, manage, lease, acquire, develop, expand and
    finance rental properties. These properties, which are located
    primarily throughout the United States, include retail centers,
    office and industrial buildings and mixed-use and other
    properties. As of December 31, 2005, we had ownership
    interest in and/or management responsibility for a portfolio of
    over 200 regional shopping malls in 44 states. We also
    have ownership interest in certain joint ventures which own four
    retail properties (one under construction) in Brazil and one
    retail property under construction in Costa Rica. 

Master Planned Communities.  Through this segment of our
    business, we develop and sell land in and around Columbia,
    Maryland; Summerlin, Nevada; and Houston, Texas for residential,
    commercial and other uses primarily in master planned
    communities. As of December 31, 2005, these communities,
    including land previously sold or not saleable, total over
    70,000 acres. 

Substantially all of our business is conducted through GGP
Limited Partnership (the  Operating Partnership  or
 GGPLP ). As of December 31, 2005, ownership of
the Operating Partnership was as follows:

82%

General Growth, as sole general partner 

16

Limited partners that indirectly include family members of the
    original stockholders of the Company. Represented by common
    units of limited partnership interest (the  Common
    Units ) 

2

Limited partners that include subsequent contributors of
    properties to the Operating Partnership which are also
    represented by Common Units. 

100%

The Operating Partnership also has preferred units of limited
partnership interest (the  Preferred Units )
outstanding. Under certain circumstances, the Preferred Units
are convertible into Common Units which are redeemable for
shares of General Growth common stock on a one-for-one basis.

Many of our properties are owned entirely by us, or through
entities in which we own a majority or controlling interest. As
a result, these properties are consolidated under generally
accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), and we refer
to them as the  Consolidated Properties.  Some
properties are held through joint venture entities in which we
own a non-controlling interest ( Unconsolidated Real Estate
Affiliates ) and we

1

Table of Contents   

refer to those properties as the  Unconsolidated
Properties.  Collectively, we refer to the Consolidated
Properties and Unconsolidated Properties as our  Company
Portfolio. 

We make all key strategic decisions for our properties. However,
in connection with the Unconsolidated Properties, such strategic
decisions are made with the respective stockholders, members or
joint venture partners of such properties. We are also the asset
manager of most of the properties in the Company Portfolio,
executing the strategic decisions and overseeing the
 day-to -day property
management functions, including leasing, construction
management, data processing, maintenance, accounting, marketing,
promotional services and security oversight. With respect to
jointly owned properties, we generally conduct the management
activities through one of our taxable REIT subsidiaries
( TRS ). As of December 31, 2005, we managed the
properties for 21 of our unconsolidated joint ventures and seven
of our consolidated joint ventures. Our joint venture partners
managed the properties for 12 of our unconsolidated joint
ventures and four of our consolidated joint ventures.

General Development of Business 

In recent years, acquisitions have been a key contributor to our
growth. In 2004, for example, acquisitions totaled over
$16 billion, largely due to the $14 billion
acquisition of The Rouse Company in November (the  TRC
Merger ). In 2005, however, acquisitions were minimal and
our operational focus was on the following:

Integrating and maximizing the operations of The Rouse Company
    LP ( TRCLP,  successor to The Rouse Company
    ( TRC )) through proactive property management and
    leasing and through operating cost reductions. Specific actions
    to increase productivity of the TRCLP properties as well as our
    previously existing properties have included changing the tenant
    mix and adding vendor carts and kiosks. As the TRC Merger was
    primarily funded with new acquisition debt, an additional focus
    has been the management and refinancing of our current debt. 

Development activities, including
     ground-up  development
    and redevelopment and expansion of existing properties. For
    example, we substantially completed the
     ground-up  development
    of The Shops at LaCantera in San Antonio, Texas in
    September 2005, and the renovation of Eastridge Mall in
    San Jose, California in November 2005. The expansion and
    renovation of a property may result in increased cash flows and
    net income as a result of increased customer traffic, trade area
    penetration and improved competitive position of the property. 

Growing our specialty leasing and alternative revenue business,
    which involves, among other things, the temporary leasing of
    carts, kiosks and available space to generate additional
    alternative rental revenue. 

Financial Information About Industry Segments 

Information regarding our segments is incorporated herein by
reference to Note 16.

Narrative Description of Business 

Retail and Other Segment  

Our Retail and Other segment consists of retail centers, office
and industrial buildings and mixed-use and other properties.

Retail Portfolio 

The Retail Portfolio is comprised primarily of regional shopping
centers, but also includes festival market places, urban
mixed-use centers and strip/ community centers. Most of our
shopping centers are strategically located in major and middle
markets where they have strong competitive positions. Most of
these properties contain at least one major department store as
an Anchor. We believe the Retail Portfolio s geographic
diversification should mitigate the effects of regional economic
conditions and local factors.

A detailed listing of the principal properties in our Retail
Portfolio is included in Item 2 of this Annual Report.

2

Table of Contents   

The majority of the income from the properties in the Retail
Portfolio is derived from rents received through long-term
leases with retail tenants. These long-term leases generally
require the tenants to pay base rent which is a fixed amount
specified in the lease. The base rent is often subject to
scheduled increases during the term of the lease. Another
component of income is overage rent. Overage rent is paid by a
tenant generally if its sales exceed an agreed upon minimum
amount. Overage rent is calculated by multiplying the sales in
excess of the minimum amount by a percentage defined in the
lease, the majority of which is earned in the fourth quarter. In
addition, our long-term leases generally contain provisions for
us to bill to tenants amounts to recover certain expenses
incurred in the
 day-to -day operations
of the respective properties, including common area maintenance
and real estate taxes. The recovery amount is generally related
to the tenant s pro-rata share of space in the property.

The following table reflects retail tenant representation by
category for the Consolidated Properties as of December 31,
2005. In general, similar percentages existed for the
Unconsolidated Properties.

Category  
       
      % of Square Feet    
       
      Representative Tenants  

Specialty (includes personal services)

22 
     % 

Regis, Lenscrafters, Dollar Tree, Petland 

Family Apparel (includes unisex)

14 

Gap, Old Navy, J Crew, Express, Anchor Blue, Banana Republic,
    Bachrach 

Women s Apparel

14 

Limited, Talbot s, Chico s, Lane Bryant, Ann Taylor,
    Coldwater Creek, Victoria s Secret 

Teen Apparel

9 

PacSun, Charlotte Russe, Forever 21, d.e.m.o.,
    Hollister & Co., Aeropostale, Abercrombie &
    Fitch 

Shoes

8 

FootLocker, Journeys, Champ s, Finish Line, Payless
    Shoesource 

Restaurants

7 

Ruby Tuesday, Applebee s, Bennigan s, Cheesecake
    Factory, Panera Bread, PF Chang s China Bistro 

Home Entertainment and Electronics

5 

RadioShack, Ritz Camera, FYE, Sam Goody, Apple Computer 

Home Furnishings

4 

William-Sonoma, Select Comfort, Z Gallerie, Pottery Barn,
    Crate & Barrel 

Sporting Goods

3 

Scheel s All Sports, MC Sports, Dick s Sporting Goods,
    Big 5 Sports 

Gifts (includes stationery, cards, gifts and novelty)

3 

Papyrus, Hallmark, Yankee Candle, Things Remembered, Spencer
    Gifts 

Fast Food/ Food Court

3 

Arby s, Sbarro, McDonald s, Auntie Anne s,
    Chick-Fil-A, Subway, Sonic 

Jewelry

3 

Zales Jewelers, Kay Jewelers, Piercing Pagoda, Helzberg Diamonds 

Children s Merchandise

2 

Gymboree, Club Libby Lu, Build-A-Bear, The Children s
    Place, GapKids/BabyGap 

Personal Care

2 

L Occitane, Sephora, Trade Secret, Bath & Body
    Works 

Specialty Food (includes health, candy and coffee)

1 

GNC, Vitamin World, Starbuck s, Godiva Chocolatier,
    Harry & David 

TOTAL 

100 
     % 

As of December 31, 2005, our largest tenant (based on
common parent ownership) accounted for less than 4% of
consolidated rents.

3

Table of Contents   

Other Office, Industrial and
     Mixed-Use  buildings  

The office and other properties are located primarily in the
Baltimore/ Washington, D.C. and Las Vegas markets or are
components of large-scale mixed-use properties (which include
retail, parking and other uses) located in other urban markets.
At December 31, 2005, in addition to office and other
properties which are adjacent to our retail centers (included in
our Retail portfolio), we owned and managed the following office
and other properties:

In December 2005, we sold seven office buildings totaling
approximately 705,000 square feet located in the Hunt
Valley Business Community in Hunt Valley, Maryland and 14 office
buildings totaling approximately 402,000 square feet in the
Rutherford Business Center, Woodlawn, Maryland. In December
2005, we also sold a 16 building, 952,000 square foot
portfolio of industrial buildings comprised of 10 buildings
totaling 582,000 square feet in the Hunt Valley Business
Community and six buildings totaling 370,000 square feet in
the Rutherford Business Center in suburban Baltimore. The
portfolio also included three land parcels totaling more than
18 acres. The aggregate sale price of the two transactions
was $181 million.

Master Planned Communities Segment   

In conjunction with the TRC Merger, we acquired master planned
communities. We develop and sell land in these communities to
builders and other developers for residential, commercial and
other uses. We may also develop some of this land for our own
purposes. These master planned communities are as follows:

Columbia is located in the Baltimore, Maryland/
    Washington, D.C. corridor and encompasses approximately
    18,000 acres. We own approximately 873 saleable acres
    of land in and around Columbia, including the adjacent
    communities of Emerson and Stone Lake. 

Summerlin is located immediately north and west of Las Vegas and
    encompasses approximately 22,500 acres. We own
    approximately 6,400 saleable acres of land in Summerlin.
    Revenues from the sale of land at Summerlin are subject to the
    Contingent Stock Agreement as more fully described in
    Note 14. 

Bridgelands is located in the western Houston, Texas
    metropolitan area and encompasses approximately
    10,000 acres, approximately 7,300 acres of which is
    developable and saleable. TRC began development activities on
    Bridgelands in 2004 and we began selling portions of this land
    in 2006. 

We also own a 52.5% economic interest in The Woodlands, a master
    planned community in the Houston, Texas metropolitan area which
    contains approximately 27,000 acres. Assets owned by The
    Woodlands include approximately 6,900 saleable acres of land,
    three golf course complexes, a resort conference center, a
    hotel, interests in seven office buildings and other assets. 

Fairwood is located in Prince George s County, Maryland.
    Fairwood contains over 1,000 acres of land. We own
    approximately 420 saleable acres of land at Fairwood. 

Other 

Competition   

The nature and extent of the competition we face varies from
property to property within each segment of our business. In our
Retail and Other segment, our direct competitors include other
publicly-traded retail mall

4

Table of Contents   

development and operating companies, retail real estate
companies, commercial property developers and other owners of
retail real estate that engage in similar businesses.

Within our Retail Portfolio, we compete to acquire land for new
site development and to acquire existing retail properties. We
believe that we have a competitive advantage with respect to
acquisitions for the following reasons:

Subject to certain limitations, the funds necessary for cash
    acquisitions are available to us from a combination of sources,
    including mortgage or unsecured financing or the issuance of
    public or private debt or equity. 

We have the flexibility to pay for an acquisition with a
    combination of cash, General Growth equity securities or common
    or preferred units of limited partnership interest in the
    Operating Partnership. This last approach may create the
    opportunity for a tax-advantaged transaction for the seller. 

Our expertise allows us to evaluate proposed acquisitions of
    existing retail properties for their increased profit potential
    through expansion, remodeling, re-merchandising and more
    efficient management of the property. 

We also compete for retail tenants. We believe the principal
factors that retailers consider in making their leasing decision
include:

Consumer demographics 

Quality, design and location of properties 

Total number and geographic distribution of properties 

Diversity of retailers and anchor tenants at shopping center
    locations 

Management and operational expertise 

Rental rates 

Based on these criteria, we believe that the size and scope of
our property portfolio, as well as the overall quality and
attractiveness of our individual properties, enable us to
compete effectively for retail tenants in our local markets.
Because our revenue potential is linked to the success of our
retailers, we indirectly share exposure to the same competitive
factors that our retail tenants experience in their respective
markets when trying to attract individual shoppers. These
dynamics include general competition from other regional
shopping centers, including outlet malls and other discount
shopping centers, as well as competition with discount shopping
clubs, catalog companies, internet sales and telemarketing.

With respect to our office and other properties, we experience
competition in the development and management of our properties
similar to that of our Retail Portfolio. Prospective tenants
generally consider quality and appearance, amenities, location
relative to other commercial activity and price in determining
the attractiveness of our properties. Based on the quality and
location of our properties, which are generally in urban markets
or are concentrated in the commercial centers of our master
planned communities, we believe that our properties are viewed
favorably among prospective tenants.

In our Master Planned Communities segment, we compete with other
landholders and residential and commercial property developers
in the development of properties within the Baltimore/
Washington, D.C., Las Vegas, and Houston markets.
Significant factors affecting our competition in this business
include:

The size and scope of our master planned communities 

The recreational and cultural amenities available within the
    communities 

The commercial centers in the communities 

The relationships of the developer with homebuilders 

The proximity to major metropolitan areas 

5

Table of Contents   

We believe our projects offer significant advantages when viewed
against these criteria.

Environmental Matters   

Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, an
owner of real estate is liable for the costs of removal or
remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on such
real estate. These laws often impose such liability without
regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the
presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of
remediation or removal of such substances may be substantial,
and the presence of such substances, or the failure to promptly
remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner s
ability to sell such real estate or to borrow using such real
estate as collateral. In connection with our ownership and
operation of our properties, we, or the relevant property
venture through which the property is owned, may be potentially
liable for such costs.

Substantially all of our properties have been subject to
environmental assessments, which are intended to discover
information regarding, and to evaluate the environmental
condition of, the surveyed and surrounding properties.

The Phase I environmental assessments included a historical
review, a public records review, a preliminary investigation of
the site and surrounding properties, screening for the presence
of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls ( PCBs ) and
underground storage tanks and the preparation and issuance of a
written report, but do not include soil sampling or subsurface
investigations. A Phase II assessment, when necessary, was
conducted to further investigate any issues raised by the
Phase I assessment. In each case where Phase I and/or
Phase II assessments resulted in specific recommendations
for remedial actions required by law, management has either
taken or scheduled the recommended action.

Neither the Phase I nor the Phase II assessments have
revealed any environmental liability that we believe would have
a material effect on our overall business, financial condition
or results of operations. Nevertheless, it is possible that
these assessments do not reveal all environmental liabilities or
that there are material environmental liabilities of which we
are unaware. Moreover, no assurances can be given that future
laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material
environmental liability or the current environmental condition
of our properties will not be adversely affected by tenants and
occupants of the properties, by the condition of properties in
the vicinity of our properties (such as the presence on such
properties of underground storage tanks) or by third parties
unrelated to us.

Future development opportunities may require additional capital
and other expenditures in order to comply with Federal, state
and local statutes and regulations relating to the protection of
the environment. It is impossible at this time to predict with
any certainty the magnitude of any such expenditures or the
long-range effect, if any, on our operations. Compliance with
such laws has had no material adverse effect on our operating
results or competitive position in the past.

Employees  

As of March 1, 2006, we had approximately
4,700 employees.

Qualification as a Real Estate Investment Trust and
Taxability of Distributions  

General Growth currently qualifies as a real estate investment
trust pursuant to the requirements contained in
Sections 856-858 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the  Code ). If, as we contemplate, such
qualification continues, General Growth will not be taxed on its
real estate investment trust taxable income. During 2005,
General Growth distributed (or was deemed to have distributed)
100% of its taxable income to its preferred and common
stockholders (Note 7).

Available Information  

Our Internet website address is  www.generalgrowth.com .
Our Annual Reports on
Form  10-K, 
Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q,  Current
Reports on
Form  8-K  and
amendments to those reports are available and may be accessed
free of charge through the Investment section of our Internet
website under the Shareholder Info

6

Table of Contents   

subsection, as soon as reasonably practicable after those
documents are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our Internet
website and information contained therein or connected thereto
are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report.

Item 1A.       
     
      Risk Factors   

Risks Related to Real Estate Investments 

We invest primarily in regional mall shopping centers and
    other retail properties, which are subject to a number of
    significant risks which are beyond our control   

Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk
that may affect the ability of our retail properties to generate
sufficient revenues. A number of factors may decrease the income
generated by a retail property, including:

the regional and local economy, which may be negatively impacted
    by plant closings, industry slowdowns, adverse weather
    conditions, natural disasters and other factors; 

local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a
    reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the
    availability and creditworthiness of current and prospective
    tenants; 

perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience
    and attractiveness of the retail property; 

the convenience and quality of competing retail properties and
    other retailing options such as the Internet; 

changes in laws and regulations applicable to real property,
    including tax and zoning laws; and 

changes in interest rate levels and the availability and cost of
    financing. 

If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from our retail
properties, including those held by joint ventures, we will be
unable to meet operating and other expenses, including debt
service, lease payments, capital expenditures and tenant
improvements, and to make distributions from our joint ventures
and then, in turn, to our stockholders.

We depend on leasing space to tenants on economically
    favorable terms and collecting rent from these tenants, who may
    not be able to pay   

Our results of operations will depend on our ability to continue
to lease space in our properties on economically favorable
terms. If the sales of stores operating in our centers decline
sufficiently, tenants might be unable to pay their existing
minimum rents or expense recovery charges, since these rents and
charges would represent a higher percentage of their sales. If
our tenants  sales decline, new tenants would be less
likely to be willing to pay minimum rents as high as they would
otherwise pay. In addition, as substantially all of our income
is derived from rentals of real property, our income and cash
available for distribution to our stockholders would be
adversely affected if a significant number of tenants were
unable to meet their obligations to us. During times of economic
recession, these risks will increase.

Bankruptcy or store closures of tenants may decrease our
    revenues and available cash   

A number of companies in the retail industry, including some of
our tenants, have declared bankruptcy or voluntarily closed
certain of their stores in recent years. The bankruptcy or
closure of a major tenant, particularly an Anchor tenant, may
have a material adverse effect on the retail properties affected
and the income produced by these properties and may make it
substantially more difficult to lease the remainder of the
affected retail properties. Our leases generally do not contain
provisions designed to ensure the creditworthiness of the
tenant. As a result, the bankruptcy or closure of a major tenant
could result in a lower level of revenues and cash available for
distribution to our stockholders.

7

Table of Contents   

We may be negatively impacted by department store
    consolidations   

Department store consolidations, such as K-Mart s
acquisition of Sears and Federated s acquisition of May
Department Stores, are resulting in the closure of existing
department stores and we may be unable to re-lease this area or
to re-lease it on comparable or more favorable terms. Other
tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing
leases, including those pertaining to rent payment, in the event
of such closures. Additionally, department store closures could
result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to
decreased sales at other stores. Consolidations may also
negatively affect current and future development and
redevelopment projects.

It may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly,
    and transfer restrictions apply to some of our properties   

Equity real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and this
characteristic tends to limit our ability to vary our portfolio
promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.
In addition, significant expenditures associated with each
equity investment, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes
and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when
circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment.
If income from a property declines while the related expenses do
not decline, our income and cash available for distribution to
our stockholders would be adversely affected. A significant
portion of our properties are mortgaged to secure payment of
indebtedness, and if we were unable to meet our mortgage
payments, we could lose money as a result of foreclosure on the
properties by the various mortgagees. In addition, if it becomes
necessary or desirable for us to dispose of one or more of the
mortgaged properties, we might not be able to obtain a release
of the lien on the mortgaged property without payment of the
associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage on a property or
inability to sell a property could adversely affect the level of
cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In certain
transactions, if persons selling properties to us wish to defer
the payment of taxes on the sales proceeds, we are likely to pay
them in units of limited partnership interest in the Operating
Partnership. In transactions of this kind, we may also agree,
subject to certain exceptions, not to sell the acquired
properties for significant periods of time.

Risks Related to our Business 

We develop and expand properties, and this activity is
    subject to various risks   

We intend to continue to pursue development and expansion
activities as opportunities arise. In connection with any
development or expansion, we will be subject to various risks,
including the following:

we may abandon development or expansion activities, which may
    result in additional cost recognition; 

construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates or
    available financing, possibly making the project unfeasible or
    unprofitable; 

we may not be able to obtain financing or to refinance
    construction loans, which generally have full recourse to us; 

we may not be able to obtain zoning, occupancy or other required
    governmental permits and authorizations; 

occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may not meet
    projections and, therefore, the project may not be
    profitable; and 

we may need Anchor, mortgage lender and property partner
    approvals, if applicable, for expansion or redevelopment
    activities. 

If a development project is unsuccessful, our loss could exceed
our investment in the project.

If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our
    financial condition and results of operations may be adversely
    affected   

We have experienced rapid growth in recent years, increasing our
total consolidated assets from less than $2 billion at
December 31, 1996 to over $25 billion at
December 31, 2005. We may not be able to manage our

8

Table of Contents   

growth effectively or to maintain a similar rate of growth in
the future, and the failure to do so may have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

We may incur costs to comply with environmental
    laws   

Under various federal, state or local laws, ordinances and
regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real
estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or
toxic substances released at a property, and may be held liable
to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage
or personal injuries and for investigation and
 clean-up  costs incurred
by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws
often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or
operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of the
hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of contamination or
the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the
owner s ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow
using the real estate as collateral. Other federal, state and
local laws, ordinances and regulations require abatement or
removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of
demolition or certain renovations or remodeling and also govern
emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Federal
and state laws also regulate the operation and removal of
underground storage tanks. In connection with the ownership,
operation and management of our properties, we could be held
liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to these
regulated substances or tanks or related claims.

Each of our properties has been subjected to varying degrees of
environmental assessment at various times. However, the
identification of new areas of contamination, a change in the
extent or known scope of contamination or changes in cleanup
requirements could result in significant costs to us.

We are in a competitive business  

There are numerous shopping facilities that compete with our
properties in attracting retailers to lease space. In addition,
retailers at our properties face continued competition from
discount shopping centers, lifestyle centers, outlet malls,
wholesale and discount shopping clubs, direct mail,
telemarketing, television shopping networks and shopping via the
Internet. Competition of this type could adversely affect our
revenues and cash available for distribution to our stockholders.

We compete with other major real estate investors with
significant capital for attractive investment opportunities.
These competitors include other REITs, investment banking firms
and private institutional investors. This competition has
increased prices for commercial properties and may impair our
ability to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable
terms in the future.

We may not be able to obtain capital to make
investments  

We depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of
our business. This is because one of the requirements of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as
the  Code,  for a REIT generally is that it distribute
90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its
stockholders. Our access to debt or equity financing depends on
banks  willingness to lend to us and on conditions in the
capital markets in general. We and other companies in the real
estate industry have experienced less favorable terms for bank
loans and capital markets financing from time to time. Although
we believe, based on current market conditions, that we will be
able to finance investments we wish to make in the foreseeable
future, financing might not be available on acceptable terms or
may be affected by the amount of debt we have outstanding as a
result of the TRC Merger.

Some of our properties are subject to potential natural or
other disasters  

A number of our properties are located in areas which are
subject to natural disasters. For example, two of our
properties, located in the New Orleans area, suffered major
damage in 2005. It is uncertain as to whether the New Orleans
area will recover to its prior economic strength.

We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake,
terrorism, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of
our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured
limits of these policies are

9

Table of Contents   

adequate and appropriate. There are, however, some types of
losses, including lease and other contract claims, which
generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in
excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion
of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the
anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens,
we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or
other financial obligations related to the property.

If the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act is not extended
beyond 2007, we may incur higher insurance costs and greater
difficulty in obtaining insurance which covers terrorist-related
damages. Our tenants may also experience similar difficulties.

We are subject to risks that affect the general retail
environment  

Our concentration in the regional mall market means that we are
subject to factors that affect the retail environment generally,
including the level of consumer spending, the willingness of
retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, department
store consolidations and tenant bankruptcies. In addition, we
are exposed to the risk that terrorist activities, or the threat
of such activities, may discourage consumers from visiting our
malls and impact consumer confidence.

Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and
    results of operations   

Should inflation increase in the future, we may experience any
or all of the following:

decreasing tenant sales as a result of decreased consumer
    spending which could result in lower overage rents; 

difficulty in replacing or renewing expiring leases with new
    leases at higher base and/or overage rents; and 

an inability to receive reimbursement from our tenants for their
    share of certain operating expenses, including common area
    maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance. 

Inflation also poses a potential threat to us due to the
probability of future increases in interest rates. Such
increases would adversely impact us due to our outstanding
variable-rate debt as well as result in higher interest rates on
new fixed-rate debt.

Risks Related to our Organizational and Financial Structure
that Give Rise to Operational and Financial Risks 

As of December 31, 2005, we had material weaknesses
    in our internal control over financial reporting   

The reports for fiscal year 2005 included in this Annual Report
include material weaknesses related to the Company s
failure to maintain effective policies and procedures relating
to accounting for income taxes and failure to have sufficient
personnel resources with appropriate technical accounting
expertise to conduct a timely and accurate financial close.
Although we have implemented and continue to implement
remediation efforts, a material weakness indicates that there is
more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of
our financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a
future period. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will
not in the future identify further material weaknesses or
significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial
reporting that we have not discovered to date. We are taking
steps to improve our internal control over financial reporting
to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The
efforts we have taken and continue to take are subject to
continued management review supported by confirmation and
testing by management and by our internal auditors as well as
audit committee oversight. However, if these remediation efforts
are insufficient to address the identified material weaknesses,
or if additional material weaknesses are discovered in the
future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations on
a timely basis and internal control deficiencies could cause
investors to lose confidence in our reported financial
information.

Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our
    financial health and operating flexibility   

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of
December 31, 2005, we had an aggregate consolidated
indebtedness outstanding of approximately $20.4 billion
(Note 6). Approximately $6.9 billion of our aggregate

10

Table of Contents   

indebtedness was unsecured, recourse indebtedness of the
Operating Partnership and consolidated subsidiaries, while
approximately $13.5 billion was secured by our properties.
A majority of the secured indebtedness was non-recourse to us.
This indebtedness does not include our proportionate share of
indebtedness incurred by our Unconsolidated Properties. As a
result of this substantial indebtedness, we are required to use
a material portion of our cash flow to service principal and
interest on our debt, which will limit the cash flow available
for other desirable business opportunities, if present.

Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences
to us and the value of our common stock, including:

limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working
    capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements,
    execution of our growth strategy or other purposes; 

limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas
    of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion
    of these funds to service the debt; 

increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions, including increases in interest rates,
    particularly given our substantial indebtedness which bears
    interest at variable rates; 

limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities,
    including the acquisition of additional properties, and to react
    to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government
    regulation; 

limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance
    indebtedness; and 

limiting our ability to enter into marketing and hedging
    transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom
    we can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of
    those transactions. 

The terms of the 2006 Credit Facility (obtained in
    February 2006 (Note 6)) and certain other debt, contain
    covenants and events of default that may limit our flexibility
    and prevent us from taking certain actions or result in the
    acceleration of our obligations under such debt   

The terms of the 2006 Credit Facility, similar to the 2004
Credit Facility that was in effect at December 31, 2005,
and certain other debt, require us to satisfy certain customary
affirmative and negative covenants and to meet financial ratios
and tests including ratios and tests based on leverage, interest
coverage and net worth. The covenants under our debt affect,
among other things, our ability to:

incur indebtedness; 

create liens on assets; 

sell assets; 

make capital expenditures; and 

engage in mergers and acquisitions. 

Given the restrictions in our debt covenants on these and other
activities, we may be restricted in our ability to pursue other
acquisitions, may be significantly limited in our operating and
financial flexibility and may be limited in our ability to
respond to changes in our business or competitive activities.

A failure to comply with these covenants, including a failure to
meet the financial tests or ratios, would likely result in an
event of default under our debt and would allow the lenders to
accelerate such debt under such facility. If our debt is
accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such debt
in full.

We have a substantial amount of short-term
    indebtedness   

We have $2 billion of such indebtedness that must be
refinanced this year. The failure to refinance this debt on
favorable terms could have material consequences to us and our
stockholders.

11

Table of Contents   

We share control of some of our properties with other
    investors and may have conflicts of interest with those
    investors   

While we generally make all operating decisions for the
Unconsolidated Properties, we are required to make other
decisions with the other investors who have interests in the
relevant property or properties. For example, the approval of
certain of the other investors is required with respect to
operating budgets and refinancing, encumbering, expanding or
selling any of these properties. We might not have the same
interests as the other investors in relation to these
transactions. Accordingly, we might not be able to favorably
resolve any of these issues, or we might have to provide
financial or other inducement to the other investors to obtain a
favorable resolution.

In addition, various restrictive provisions and rights apply to
sales or transfers of interests in our jointly owned properties.
These may work to our disadvantage because, among other things,
we might be required to make decisions about buying or selling
interests in a property or properties at a time that is
disadvantageous to us or we might be required to purchase the
interests of our partners in our jointly owned properties.

Bankruptcy of joint venture partners could impose delays
    and costs on us with respect to the jointly owned retail
    properties   

The bankruptcy of one of the other investors in any of our
jointly owned shopping centers could materially and adversely
affect the relevant property or properties. Under the bankruptcy
laws, we would be precluded by the automatic stay from taking
some actions affecting the estate of the other investor without
prior approval of the bankruptcy court, which would, in most
cases, entail prior notice to other parties and a hearing in the
bankruptcy court. At a minimum, the requirement to obtain court
approval may delay the actions we would or might want to take.
If the relevant joint venture through which we have invested in
a property has incurred recourse obligations, the discharge in
bankruptcy of one of the other investors might result in our
ultimate liability for a greater portion of those obligations
than we would otherwise bear.

Payments by our direct and indirect subsidiaries of
    dividends and distributions to us may be adversely affected by
    prior payments to these subsidiaries  creditors and
    preferred security holders   

Substantially all of our assets are owned through our general
partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, including
TRCLP. The Operating Partnership holds substantially all of its
properties and assets through subsidiaries, including subsidiary
partnerships, limited liability companies and corporations that
have elected to be taxed as REITs. The Operating Partnership
therefore derives substantially all of its cash flow from cash
distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and we, in turn, derive
substantially all of our cash flow from cash distributions to us
by the Operating Partnership. The creditors and preferred
security holders, if any, of each of our direct and indirect
subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary s
obligations to them, when due and payable, before that
subsidiary may make distributions to us. Thus, the Operating
Partnership s ability to make distributions to its
partners, including us, depends on its subsidiaries 
ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors
and preferred security holders, if any, and then to make
distributions to the Operating Partnership. Similarly, our
ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock depends
on the Operating Partnership s ability first to satisfy its
obligations to its creditors and preferred security holders, 
 if any, and then to make distributions to us.

In addition, we will have the right to participate in any
distribution of the assets of any of our direct or indirect
subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency
of the subsidiary only after the claims of the creditors,
including trade creditors, and preferred security holders, if
any, of the subsidiary are satisfied. Our common stockholders,
in turn, will have the right to participate in any distribution
of our assets upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency
of us only after the claims of our creditors, including trade
creditors, and preferred security holders, if any, are satisfied.

We might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a
    REIT   

Although we believe that we will remain structured and will
continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for federal
income tax purposes, we might not continue to be so qualified.
Qualification as a REIT for federal

12

Table of Contents   

income tax purposes involves the application of highly technical
and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only
limited judicial or administrative interpretations. Therefore,
the determination of various factual matters and circumstances
not entirely within our control may impact our ability to
qualify as a REIT. In addition, legislation, new regulations,
administrative interpretations or court decisions might
significantly change the tax laws with respect to the
requirements for qualification as a REIT or the federal income
tax consequences of qualification as a REIT.

If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our
qualification as a REIT, we would not be allowed to deduct
distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income
and federal income tax. The corporate level income tax,
including any applicable alternative minimum tax, would apply to
our taxable income at regular corporate rates. As a result, the
amount available for distribution to stockholders would be
reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer
be required to make distributions. In addition, unless we were
entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions, we
would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the five
taxable years following the year during which qualification was
lost. Notwithstanding that we currently intend to operate in a
manner designed to allow us to qualify as a REIT, future
economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause
us to determine that it is in our best interest and the best
interest of our stockholders to revoke the REIT election.

An ownership limit and certain anti-takeover defenses and
    applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us   

The Ownership Limit.  Generally, for us to maintain our
qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in
value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be
owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at
any time during the last half of our taxable year. The Code
defines  individuals  for purposes of the requirement
described in the preceding sentence to include some types of
entities. In general, under our current certificate of
incorporation, no person other than Martin Bucksbaum (deceased),
Matthew Bucksbaum (the Chairman of our board of directors),
their families and related trusts and entities, including M.B.
Capital Partners III, may own more than 7.5% of the value
of our outstanding capital stock. However, our certificate of
incorporation also permits our company to exempt a person from
the 7.5% ownership limit upon the satisfaction of certain
conditions which are described in our certificate of
incorporation.

Selected Provisions of our Charter Documents.  Our board
of directors is divided into three classes of directors.
Directors of each class are chosen for three-year staggered
terms. Staggered terms of directors may reduce the possibility
of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of our
company, even though a tender offer or change in control might
be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our charter
authorizes the board of directors:

to cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares
    of common stock or preferred stock; 

to classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued
    preferred stock; and 

to set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified
    or reclassified stock that we issue. 

Stockholder Rights Plan.  We have a stockholder rights
plan which will impact a potential acquirer unless the acquirer
negotiates with our board of directors and the board of
directors approves the transaction.

Selected Provisions of Delaware Law.  We are a Delaware
corporation, and Section 203 of the Delaware General
Corporation Law applies to us. In general, Section 203
prevents an  interested stockholder,  as defined in
the next sentence, from engaging in a  business
combination,  as defined in the statute, with us for three
years following the date that person becomes an interested
stockholder unless:

before that person became an interested stockholder, our board
    of directors approved the transaction in which the interested
    stockholder became an interested stockholder or approved the
    business combination; 

upon completion of the transaction that resulted in the
    interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the
    interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock
    outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for
    purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not
    the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested
    stockholder) stock held by directors who are also officers 

13

Table of Contents   

of the company and by employee stock plans that do not provide
    employees with the right to determine confidentially whether
    shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or
    exchange offer; or 

following the transaction in which that person became an
    interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by
    our board of directors and authorized at a meeting of
    stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least
    two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the
    interested stockholder. 

The statute defines  interested stockholder  to mean
generally any person that is the owner of 15% or more of our
outstanding voting stock or is an affiliate or associate of us
and was the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock
at any time within the three-year period immediately before the
date of determination.

Each item discussed above may delay, deter or prevent a change
in control of our company, even if a proposed transaction is at
a premium over the then current market price for our common
stock. Further, these provisions may apply in instances where
some stockholders consider a transaction beneficial to them. As
a result, our stock price may be negatively affected by these
provisions.

We are impacted by tax-related obligations to some of our
    partners   

We own properties through partnerships which have arrangements
in place that protect the deferred tax situation of our existing
third party limited partners. Violation of these arrangements
could impose costs on us. As a result, we may be restricted with
respect to decisions such as financing, encumbering, expanding
or selling these properties.

Several of our joint venture partners are tax-exempt. As such,
they are taxable to the extent of their share of unrelated
business taxable income generated from these properties. As the
managing partner in these joint ventures, we have obligations to
avoid the creation of unrelated business taxable income at these
properties. As a result, we may be restricted with respect to
decisions such as financing and revenue generation with respect
to these properties.

Risks Related to the TRC Merger 

We may not realize the full anticipated benefits of the
    TRC Merger   

Achieving the anticipated benefits of the TRC Merger will depend
in part upon our ability to integrate the two companies 
businesses in an efficient and effective manner. We may continue
to face difficulties integrating aspects of the combined
company s businesses that we have not historically focused
on, such as the master planned community business. Any inability
of management to integrate the operations of TRCLP successfully
could cause us to not fully achieve the expected benefits of the
TRC Merger.

Limitations on the sale of the TRCLP assets may affect our
    cash flow   

We may be restricted in our ability to dispose of certain TRCLP
assets until the ten-year period after TRC s election of
REIT status expires in 2008 due to the potential incurrence of
substantial tax liabilities on such dispositions due to
applicable REIT regulations.

We have significant obligations under a Contingent Stock
    Agreement we assumed in the TRC Merger   

We have assumed the obligations of TRC under a Contingent Stock
Agreement, which we refer to as the  CSA.  The
assumption includes the obligation under the CSA to issue shares
of common stock twice a year to the beneficiaries under the CSA
and certain indemnification obligations. The number of shares is
based upon our stock price and upon a formula set forth in the
CSA. In addition, the CSA requires a valuation of certain assets
that we own as of December 31, 2009, which could result in
the issuance of a significant number of additional shares to the
beneficiaries under the CSA. Such issuances could be dilutive to
our existing stockholders if we are unable to repurchase a
corresponding number of shares through our publicly announced
stock repurchase program.

14

Table of Contents   

Risks Related to our Common Stock 

Our common stock price may be volatile, and consequently
    investors may not be able to resell their common stock at or
    above their purchase price   

The price at which our common stock will trade may be volatile
and may fluctuate due to factors such as:

our historical and anticipated quarterly and annual operating
    results; 

variations between our actual results and analyst and investor
    expectations or changes in financial estimates and
    recommendations by securities analysts; 

the performance and prospects of our industry; 

the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; 

investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; 

domestic and international economic conditions; 

the extent of institutional investor interest in us; 

the reputation of REITs generally and the attractiveness of
    their equity securities in comparison to other equity
    securities, including securities issued by other real estate
    companies, and fixed income securities; 

our financial condition and performance; and 

general market conditions and trends. 

Fluctuations may be unrelated to or disproportionate to our
financial performance. These fluctuations may result in a
material decline in the trading price of our common stock.

Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock
    price   

As of December 31, 2005, approximately 59.6 million
shares of common stock were issuable upon exercise of conversion
and/or redemption rights as to units of limited partnership
interest in the Operating Partnership. Under our shelf
registration statement, we may offer from time to time up to
approximately $1.5 billion worth of common stock, preferred
stock, depositary shares, debt securities, warrants, stock
purchase contracts and/or purchase units. An additional
1.7 million shares of our common stock remain reserved for
issuance under the CSA we assumed in connection with the TRC
Merger. In addition, we have reserved a number of shares of
common stock for issuance under our option and other benefit
plans for employees and directors and in connection with certain
other obligations, and these shares will be available for sale
from time to time. Although we have publicly announced a stock
repurchase program which may offset the dilution resulting from
issuances pursuant to the CSA and our employee option plan,
there is no certainty that we will be successful in acquiring a
sufficient number of shares at an acceptable price to accomplish
this goal. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any,
that these and other future sales of our common stock, or the
availability of common stock for future sales, will have on the
market price of the stock. Sales in the public market of
substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that
such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market
prices for our common stock.

Increases in market interest rates may hurt the market
    price of our common stock   

We believe that investors consider the distribution rate on REIT
stocks, expressed as a percentage of the price of the stocks,
relative to market interest rates as an important factor in
deciding whether to buy or sell the stocks. If market interest
rates go up, prospective purchasers of REIT stocks may expect a
higher distribution rate. Higher interest rates would not,
however, result in more funds being available for us to
distribute and, in fact, would likely increase our borrowing
costs and might decrease our funds available for distribution.
Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price
of our common stock to decline.

15

Table of Contents   

Item 1B.  
     
      Unresolved Staff Comments   

None.

Item 2.  
     
      Properties   

Our investment in real estate as of December 31, 2005,
consisted of our interests in the properties in our Retail and
Other and Master Planned Communities segments. In most cases, we
also own the land underlying the retail properties. However, at
certain of the properties, all or part of the underlying land is
owned by a third party that leases the land to us pursuant to a
long-term ground lease. The leases generally contain various
purchase options and typically provide us with a right of first
refusal in the event of a proposed sale of the property by the
landlord. Information regarding encumbrances on these properties
is included in Schedule III of this Annual Report.

The following tables set forth certain information regarding the
Consolidated Properties and the Unconsolidated Properties in our
Retail Portfolio as of December 31, 2005. These tables do
not reflect subsequent activity in 2006 including purchases,
sales or consolidations of Anchor stores such as our 2006
purchase of six Mervyn s anchor locations. Anchors include
all stores with Gross Leasable Area greater than
30,000 square feet.

Consolidated Retail Properties 

16

Table of Contents   

17

Table of Contents   

18

Table of Contents   

19

Table of Contents   

20

Table of Contents   

21

Table of Contents   

22

Table of Contents   

(1)  
     
    In certain cases, where a center s location is part of a
    larger metropolitan area, the metropolitan area is identified in
    parenthesis. 

(2)  
     
    A portion of the property is subject to ground lease. 

(3)  
     
    Owned in a joint venture with independent, non-controlling
    minority investors. 

Unconsolidated Retail Properties 

23

Table of Contents   

24

Table of Contents   

(1)  
     
    In certain cases, where a center s location is part of a
    larger metropolitan area, the metropolitan area is identified in
    parenthesis. 

(2)  
     
    A portion of the property is subject to ground lease. 

25

Table of Contents   

Leasing 

The following schedule shows scheduled lease expirations in our
Retail Portfolio over the next five years.

*  
     
    Excludes Anchors, community centers and tenants paying overage
    rent in lieu of base minimum rent. Unconsolidated amounts
    reflected at our ownership share. 

Combined occupancy for Consolidated Properties and
Unconsolidated Properties as of December 31, 2005 was 92.5%.

Anchors 

Anchors have traditionally been a major component of a regional
shopping center. Anchors are frequently department stores whose
merchandise appeals to a broad range of shoppers. Anchors
generally either own their stores, the land under them and
adjacent parking areas, or enter into long-term leases at rates
that are generally lower than the rents charged to Mall Store
tenants. The centers in the Retail Portfolio receive a smaller
percentage of their operating income from Anchors than from Mall
Stores. While the market share of many traditional department
store Anchors has been declining, strong Anchors continue to
play an important role in maintaining customer traffic and
making the centers in the Retail Portfolio desirable locations
for Mall Store tenants.

26

Table of Contents   

The following table indicates the parent company of certain
Anchors and sets forth the number of stores and square feet
owned or leased by each Anchor in the Retail Portfolio as of
December 31, 2005.

27

Table of Contents   

(1)  
     
    In August 2005, Federated Department Stores, Inc. completed
    its merger with May Department Stores Company. In July and
    October, Federated announced planned store closings which
    included 15 of our Anchor stores. We may purchase some of these
    stores. 

(2)  
     
    In 2006, we acquired six Mervyn s anchor locations for an
    aggregate purchase price of approximately $76 million. 

Non-Retail Properties 

See Item 1  Narrative Description of Business 
for information regarding our other properties (office,
industrial and
 mixed-use  buildings)
and our Master Planned Communities segment.

Item 3.  
     
      Legal Proceedings   

Neither the Company nor any of the Unconsolidated Real Estate
Affiliates is currently involved in any material pending legal
proceedings nor, to our knowledge, is any material legal
proceeding currently threatened against the Company or any of
the Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates.

28

Table of Contents   

Item 4.  
     
      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

No matters were submitted to a vote of General Growth s
stockholders during the fourth quarter of 2005.

PART II 

Item 5.  
     
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities   

General Growth s common stock is listed on the New York
Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) and trades under the symbol
 GGP.  As of March 24, 2006, 241,005,634
outstanding shares of our common stock were held by 2,496
stockholders of record. The closing price per share of our
common stock on the NYSE on March 24, 2006, was
$49.64 per share.

On November 20, 2003, our stockholders approved a
three-for-one stock split which was effective on the same date.
All share and per share information is presented on a post-split
basis.

Reference is made to Item 12 for information regarding
shares of our common stock that may be issued under our equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2005.

The following table summarizes the quarterly high and low sales
prices per share of our common stock as reported by the NYSE.

29

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes quarterly distributions per share
of our common stock.

On August 3, 2005, we announced that our Board of Directors
authorized, effective immediately, a $200 million per
fiscal year common stock repurchase program. Stock repurchases
under this program are made through open market or privately
negotiated transactions through 2009, unless the program is
earlier terminated. The repurchase program gives us the ability
to acquire some or all of the shares of common stock to be
issued upon the exercise of certain employee stock options and
pursuant to the CSA. There were no repurchases under this
program during the quarter ended December 31, 2005.

See Note 12 for information regarding exchanges of Common
Units for common stock.

30

Table of Contents   

Item 6.                       Selected
    Financial Data   

The following table sets forth selected financial data which is
derived from, and should be read in conjunction with, the
Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes and
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations contained in this Annual Report.

Results for prior periods have been restated to reflect the
reclassification of disposed properties in 2005 to discontinued
operations (Note 4).

31

Table of Contents   

(1)  
     
    Funds From Operations ( FFO  as defined below) does
    not represent cash flow from operations as defined by Generally
    Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ). 

Funds From Operations 

Consistent with real estate industry and investment community
practices, we use Funds From Operations ( FFO ) as a
supplemental measure of our operating performance. The National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
( NAREIT ) defines FFO as net income (loss) (computed
in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains or losses from
cumulative effects of accounting changes, extraordinary items
and sales of operating rental properties, plus real estate
related depreciation and amortization and after adjustments for
unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.

We consider FFO a useful supplemental measure for equity REITs
and a complement to GAAP measures because it facilitates an
understanding of the operating performance of our properties.
FFO does not include real estate depreciation and amortization
required by GAAP since these amounts are computed to allocate
the cost of a property over its useful life. Since values for
well-maintained real estate assets have historically increased
or decreased based upon prevailing market conditions, we believe
that FFO provides investors with a clearer view of our operating
performance.

In order to provide a better understanding of the relationship
between FFO and net income available to common stockholders, a
reconciliation of FFO to net income available to common
stockholders has been provided. FFO does not represent cash flow
from operations as defined by GAAP, should not be considered as
an alternative to GAAP net income and is not necessarily
indicative of cash available to fund all cash requirements.

32

Table of Contents   

Reconciliation of FFO to Net Income Available to Common
Stockholders 

Item 7.  
     
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   

All references to numbered Notes are to specific footnotes to
our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual
Report and which descriptions are incorporated into the
applicable response by reference. The following discussion
should be read in conjunction with such Consolidated Financial
Statements and related Notes. Capitalized terms used, but not
defined, in this Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
( MD ) have the same meanings as in such Notes.
See also the Glossary at the end of this Item 7 for
definitions of selected terms used in this Annual Report.

Overview   Retail and Other Segment 

Our primary business is acquiring, owning, managing, leasing and
developing retail and office rental property. As of
December 31, 2005, we had ownership interest in or
management responsibility for a portfolio of over 200 regional
shopping malls in 44 states. We provide
 on-site  management and
other services to substantially all of our properties, including
properties which we own through joint venture arrangements and
which are unconsolidated for GAAP purposes. Our management
operating philosophies and strategies are generally the same
whether the properties are consolidated or unconsolidated. As a
result, we believe that financial information and operating
statistics with respect to all properties, both consolidated and
unconsolidated, provide important insights into our operating
results. Collectively, we refer to our Consolidated and
Unconsolidated Properties as our  Company Portfolio 
and the retail portion of the Company Portfolio as the
 Retail Company Portfolio. 

Prior year acquisitions were the most significant factor
affecting our cash flows and real estate net operating income in
2005, 2004 and 2003. Acquisitions have included single centers,
privately held portfolios and
 public-to -public
purchases such as the $14 billion TRC Merger in November
2004. Acquisitions in 2005, however, were not significant and
consisted primarily of interests in joint ventures which are
developing retail centers.

33

Table of Contents   

We seek to increase cash flow and real estate net operating
income of our retail and office rental properties through
proactive property management and leasing (including tenant
remerchandising), operating cost reductions, physical
expansions, redevelopments and capital reinvestment. Some of the
actions that we take to increase productivity include changing
the tenant mix, adding vendor carts or kiosks and full
expansions or renovations of centers.

We believe that the most significant operating factor affecting
incremental cash flow and real estate net operating income is
increased rents (either base rental revenue or overage rents)
earned from tenants at our properties. These rental revenue
increases are primarily achieved by:

Renewing expiring leases and re-leasing existing space at rates
    higher than expiring or existing rates. The average annual
    new/renewal lease rate for our Consolidated Retail Properties
    for 2005 was $37.72 per square foot which was
    $4.43 per square foot higher than the average annualized in
    place rent per square foot, as detailed in the table immediately
    below. 

Increasing occupancy at the properties so that more space is
    generating rent. The occupancy percentage at properties which
    are not under redevelopment in our Retail Company Portfolio was
    92.5 percent at December 31, 2005, compared to
    92.1 percent at December 31, 2004. 

Increased tenant sales in which we participate through overage
    rents. In 2005, tenant sales per square foot in our Retail
    Company Portfolio increased 6.4 percent over 2004 to
    $437 per square foot. 

The following table summarizes selected operating statistics as
of December 31, 2005.

(a) 

Excludes properties currently being redeveloped and/or
    remerchandised and miscellaneous (non-mall) properties. 

(b) 

Due to tenant sales reporting timelines, data presented is as of
    November. 

The expansion and renovation of a property may also result in
increased cash flows and operating income as a result of
increased customer traffic, trade area penetration and improved
competitive position of the property. As of December 31,
2005, we had 22 major approved redevelopment projects underway
(each with budgeted projected expenditures, at our ownership
share, in excess of $10 million).

We also develop retail centers from the ground-up. In September
2005, we opened the Shops at La Cantera in
San Antonio, Texas. This open air center is anchored by
Neiman Marcus, Nordstrom, Dillard s and Foley s. In
August 2004, we completed the
 ground-up  development
of Jordan Creek Town Center in West Des Moines, Iowa, a
1.9 million square foot enclosed regional shopping mall
with four anchor stores, a hotel and an amphitheater.

34

Table of Contents   

We have six retail center development projects currently under
construction, all of which are scheduled to open in late 2006 or
2007:

Lincolnshire Commons in Lincolnshire (Chicago), Illinois 

Otay Ranch Town Center in Chula Vista (San Diego),
    California 

Gateway Overlook in Benson, Maryland 

Natick West in Natick, Massachusetts 

The Shops at Fallen Timbers, Maumee (Toledo), Ohio 

Pinnacle Hills Promenade in Rogers, Arkansas 

In addition, we have agreed to acquire the new retail
development at The Palazzo in Las Vegas, Nevada, upon opening.
This is currently expected in late 2007, at an estimated
acquisition cost of $600 million. We also have 11 other
potential new retail or mixed-use developments that are
projected to open in 2006 through 2009.

Total projected expenditures (including our share of the
Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates) for the 22 redevelopment
projects and the six new retail center development projects were
approximately $2.0 billion as of December 31, 2005.
Such development and redevelopment expenditures, together with
expenditures for the 11 other potential new retail or mixed-use
developments are expected to result in approximately $450 to
$800 million of expenditures per year for the years 2006 to
2009.

Overview   Master Planned Communities Segment 

Our Master Planned Communities segment includes the development
and sale of residential and commercial land, primarily in
large-scale projects in and around Columbia, Maryland; Houston,
Texas and Summerlin, Nevada. We develop land and sell finished
and undeveloped land in such communities to builders and other
developers for residential, commercial and other uses. Our
Master Planned Communities segment reported NOI of
$95.7 million in 2005. Land sale activity at our newest
project, the Bridgelands in Houston, Texas, began in 2006.

Overview   Other 

We believe changes in interest rates are the most significant
external factor affecting our cash flows and net income. As
detailed in our discussion of economic conditions and market
risk (Item 7A), interest rates have risen in recent months
and could continue to rise in future months, which could
adversely impact our future cash flow and net income.

During 2005, we obtained approximately $3.9 billion of
consolidated debt through new financings and refinancings. Our
share of debt issued by our Unconsolidated Real Estate
Affiliates totaled approximately $840 million during the
same period. Proceeds from the issuances were used, in part, to
repay $2.7 billion of variable-rate debt.

Two of our operating retail properties (Oakwood Center in
Gretna, Louisiana and Riverwalk, located near the convention
center in downtown New Orleans) were closed in September 2005,
when a hurricane struck the area. Although property damage in
the New Orleans area was generally due to hurricane effects, the
damage to Oakwood Center and Riverwalk was from arson and
vandalism. Riverwalk partially re-opened on November 21,
2005 at a substantially reduced occupancy level. The Sears store
at Oakwood Center is operating at a reduced level. Two other
anchor stores at Oakwood Center are expected to re-open in 2006
and following repair and restoration, the remainder of the
property is expected to open on or before Fall 2007. We have
comprehensive insurance coverage for both property damage and
business interruption. The restoration effort at the properties
is expected to include replacing portions of the building,
landscaping and furnishings. The net book value of the property
damage is currently estimated to be approximately
$53 million; however, we are still assessing the damage
estimates and the actual net book value write-off could vary
from this estimate. Changes to these estimates will be recorded
in the periods in which they are determined. As of
December 31, 2005, we have recorded a net fixed asset
write-off and a corresponding insurance claim recovery

35

Table of Contents   

receivable for this net book value amount because we believe
that it is probable that the insurance recovery, net of
deductibles on a replacement cost basis, will exceed these
amounts. While we expect the insurance proceeds will be
sufficient to cover most of the replacement cost of the
restoration of the properties and certain business interruption
amounts, certain deductibles, limitations and exclusions are
expected to apply with respect to both current and future
matters. No determination has been made as to the total amount
or timing of those insurance payments. As of December 31,
2005, $5 million in insurance proceeds related to the
Oakwood property has been received, which has been offset
against this insurance recovery receivable. In January 2006, we
received an additional $5 million in insurance proceeds
with respect to Oakwood and $2.5 million in insurance
proceeds related to Riverwalk. As only a portion of the repairs
have taken place as of December 31, 2005, substantially all
of the remaining $63.4 million receivable recorded
represents the recovery of the net book value of fixed assets
written off. The cost recoveries have been recorded on the
expense line item to which they relate, and therefore there is
no significant impact to any line item or our overall results.
However, included in property operating expenses in 2005 are
approximately $1 million of costs which, when fully
expended, are not expected to be recoverable from insurance
proceeds due to insurance policy deductibles.

Seasonality 

Although we have a year-long temporary leasing program,
occupancies for short-term tenants and, therefore, rental income
recognized, are higher during the second half of the year. In
addition, the majority of our tenants have December or January
lease years for purposes of calculating annual overage rent
amounts. Accordingly, overage rent thresholds are most commonly
achieved in the fourth quarter. As a result, revenue production
is generally highest in the fourth quarter of each year.

Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America requires management to make estimates and assumptions.
These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. For example, significant estimates and assumptions have
been made with respect to useful lives of assets, capitalization
of development and leasing costs, provision for income taxes,
recoverable amounts of receivables, deferred taxes, initial
valuations and related amortization periods of deferred costs
and intangibles, particularly with respect to property
acquisitions and cost ratios and completion percentages used for
land sales. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Critical Accounting Policies 

Critical accounting policies are those that are both significant
to the overall presentation of our financial condition and
results of operations and require management to make difficult,
complex or subjective judgments. Our critical accounting
policies are those applicable to the following:

Initial valuations and estimated useful lives or amortization
periods for property and intangibles.  When we acquire a
property, we make an initial assessment of the initial valuation
and composition of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
These assessments consider fair values of the respective assets
and liabilities and are primarily determined based on estimated
future cash flows using appropriate discount and capitalization
rates, but may also be based on independent appraisals or other
market data. The estimated future cash flows that are used for
this analysis reflect the historical operations of the property,
known trends and changes expected in current market and economic
conditions which would impact the property s operations,
and our plans for such property. These estimates are
particularly important as they are used for the allocation of
purchase price between depreciable and non-depreciable real
estate and other identifiable intangibles including above, below
and at-market leases. As a result, the impact of these estimates
on our operations could be substantial.

36

Table of Contents   

Significant differences in annual depreciation or amortization
expense may result from the differing amortization periods
related to such purchased assets and liabilities. For example,
the TRC Merger increased land by $1.3 billion, buildings
and equipment by $8.2 billion, investment land and land
held for development and sale by $1.7 billion and other
tenant-related intangibles and liabilities, net, by
approximately $300 million. Buildings are depreciated over
40-45 years, equipment is depreciated over 5-15 years
and purchased intangibles are amortized over the related
remaining lease life which is, generally, 5 years. Land and
investment land and land held for development and sale are not
depreciated, however, the carrying value of such land will
affect the gain/ loss recognized on the sale of such land.
Therefore, the majority of the acquisition cost of
$14 billion is reflected over time in increased
depreciation and amortization charges.

Events or changes in circumstances concerning a property may
occur which could indicate that the carrying values or
amortization periods of the assets and liabilities may require
adjustment. The resulting recovery analysis also depends on an
analysis of future cash flows to be generated from a
property s assets and liabilities. Changes in our overall
plans (for example, the extent and nature of a proposed
redevelopment of a property) and our views on current market and
economic conditions may have a significant impact on the
resulting estimated future cash flows of a property that are
analyzed for these purposes.

Recoverable amounts of receivables and deferred taxes.  We
make periodic assessments of the collectibility of receivables
(including those resulting from the difference between rental
revenue recognized and rents currently due from tenants) and the
recoverability of deferred taxes based on a specific review of
the risk of loss on specific accounts or amounts. The receivable
analysis places particular emphasis on past-due accounts and
considers the nature and age of the receivables, the payment
history and financial condition of the payee, the basis for any
disputes or negotiations with the payee and other information
which may impact collectibility. For straight-line rents, the
analysis considers the probability of collection of the unbilled
deferred rent receivable given our experience regarding such
amounts. For deferred taxes, an assessment of the recoverability
of the current tax asset considers the current expiration
periods of the prior net operating loss carryforwards and the
estimated future taxable income of our taxable REIT
subsidiaries. The resulting estimates of any allowance or
reserve related to the recovery of these items is subject to
revision as these factors change and is sensitive to the effects
of economic and market conditions on such payees and our taxable
REIT subsidiaries.

Capitalization of development and leasing costs.  We
capitalize the costs of development and leasing activities of
our properties. These costs are incurred both at the property
location and at the regional and corporate office level. The
amount of capitalization depends, in part, on the identification
and justifiable allocation of certain activities to specific
projects and leases. Differences in methodologies of cost
identification and documentation, as well as differing
assumptions as to the time incurred on projects, can yield
significant differences in the amounts capitalized and, as a
result, the amount of depreciation recognized.

Revenue recognition and related matters.  Minimum rent
revenues are recognized on a
 straight-line  basis
over the terms of the related leases. Minimum rent revenues also
include amounts collected from tenants to allow the termination
of their leases prior to their scheduled termination dates and
accretion related to above and
 below-market  tenant
leases on acquired properties.
 Straight-line  rents
receivable represents the current net cumulative rents
recognized prior to when billed and collectible as provided by
the terms of the leases. Overage rents are recognized on an
accrual basis once tenant sales exceed contractual tenant lease
thresholds. Recoveries from tenants are established in the
leases or computed based upon a formula related to real estate
taxes, insurance and other shopping center operating expenses
and are generally recognized as revenues in the period the
related costs are incurred. Revenues from land sales are
recognized using the full accrual method provided that various
criteria relating to the terms of the transactions and our
subsequent involvement with the land sold are met. Revenues
relating to transactions that do not meet the established
criteria are deferred and recognized when the criteria are met
or using the installment or cost recovery methods, as
appropriate in the circumstances. For land sale transactions in
which we are required to perform additional services and incur
significant costs after title has passed, revenues and cost of
sales are recognized on a percentage of completion basis.

37

Table of Contents   

Cost of land sales is determined as a specified percentage of
land sales revenues recognized for each community development
project. The cost ratios used are based on actual costs incurred
and estimates of development costs and sales revenues to
completion of each project. The ratios are reviewed regularly
and revised for changes in sales and cost estimates or
development plans. Significant changes in these estimates or
development plans, whether due to changes in market conditions
or other factors, could result in changes to the cost ratio used
for a specific project. The increase in the basis of the land
due to purchase price accounting adjustments has resulted in a
significant increase in the cost ratios of our projects. The
specific identification method is used to determine cost of
sales for certain parcels of land, including acquired parcels we
do not intend to develop or for which development is complete at
the date of acquisition.

Acquisitions 

Acquisitions were as follows:

38

Table of Contents   

(1)  
     
    Additional funding, including for those acquisitions for which a
    specific and separate loan was not obtained, was paid from cash
    on hand or proceeds from borrowings under our credit facilities. 

(2)  
     
    Total commitment of approximately $32.0 million, all of
    which has been funded at December 31, 2005. 

(3)  
     
    Excludes approximately $130 million of purchase price
    adjustments which were recorded in 2005. 

Results of Operations 

General:  

Our revenues are primarily received from tenants in the form of
fixed minimum rents, overage rents and recoveries of operating
expenses. Our consolidated results of operations are also
impacted by acquisitions. For additional information regarding
our acquisitions, see the tables above and Note 3.

We provide  on-site 
management and other services to substantially all of our
properties, including properties which we own through joint
venture arrangements and which are unconsolidated for GAAP
purposes. Our management operating philosophies and strategies
are generally the same whether the properties are consolidated
or unconsolidated. As a result, we believe that financial
information and operating statistics with respect to all
properties, both consolidated and unconsolidated, provide
important insights into our operating results. As a result, we
have presented the following discussion of our results of
operations under the proportionate share method. Under the
proportionate share method, our share of the revenues and
expenses of the Unconsolidated Properties are combined with the
revenues and expenses of the Consolidated Properties. See
Note 16 for additional information including
reconciliations of our segment basis results to GAAP basis
results.

39

Table of Contents   

Retail and Other Segment 

Acquisitions were the main reason for the increases in property
revenues and expenses, on both a segment basis as detailed below
and on a GAAP basis as reported in our Consolidated Statements
of Income and Comprehensive Income:

Minimum rents increased $670 million as a result of
acquisitions and $42 million largely as a result of Jordan
Creek Town Center which opened in August 2004 and Ala Moana
Center which was recently redeveloped. Minimum rents also
include the net effect of above and below-market lease rent
accretion pursuant to SFAS 141 and 142 of
$41.8 million in 2005 and $34.5 million in 2004.

Tenant recoveries and overage rents increased primarily as a
result of acquisitions.

Substantially all of the increases in real estate taxes, repairs
and maintenance, marketing, other property operating costs and
provision for doubtful accounts were attributable to
acquisitions.

40

Table of Contents   

Minimum rents, tenant recoveries and other property revenues
increased primarily as a result of acquisitions. Minimum rents
also include the net effect of above and below-market lease rent
accretion pursuant to SFAS 141 and 142 of
$34.5 million in 2004 and $23.5 million in 2003.

Overage rents increased $17.0 million as a result of
acquisitions and $4.5 million as a result of higher tenant
sales, especially at Ala Moana Center.

Other property costs increased $78.9 million as a result of
acquisitions and decreased $10.6 million as a result of
lower operating costs at substantially all properties.

Real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, marketing, and
provision for doubtful accounts increased primarily due to
acquisitions.

Real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance and other property
operating expenses are generally recoverable from tenants and
the increases in these expenses are generally consistent with
the increase in tenant recovery revenues.

Master Planned Communities Segment 

Land sale revenues totaled $468.3 million in 2005 and
$105.8 million in 2004. Land sales operations expenses
totaled $372.6 million in 2005 and $103.3 million in
2004. The Master Planned Communities are comprised of
residential and commercial land, primarily in large-scale
projects, which were acquired in the TRC Merger in November
2004. As a result, revenues and expenses in 2004 reflect
operations for the six weeks following the acquisition only.

Certain Significant Consolidated Revenues and Expenses 

Substantially all of the increases in tenant rents (which
includes minimum rents, tenant recoveries and overage rents),
land sales, property operating expenses and land sales
operations was attributable to acquisitions.

The increase in management and other fees for 2005, as a result
of acquisitions, was offset by the loss of fees resulting from
our acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in Town East Mall
in March 2004. As Town East Mall is now wholly-owned and
consolidated in our results of operations, we no longer receive
management or other fees from this property.

Property management and other costs and depreciation and
amortization increased in 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily as
a result of acquisitions. Because acquisitions are initially
recorded at fair value, the depreciable basis and the
corresponding depreciation expense for recent acquisitions are
generally higher than for properties that we have owned for a
longer period of time.

Interest expense increased $496.5 million in 2005 as
compared to 2004 as a result of increased debt associated with
acquisitions and $62.6 million as a result of higher debt
levels primarily as a result of redevelopments, working capital
requirements and higher average interest rates during the
current year. These increases were

41

Table of Contents   

partially offset by lower debt extinguishment costs in 2005 as a
result of deferred finance cost write-offs in 2004 resulting
from TRC Merger funding. The weighted average interest rate on
our outstanding debt was 5.64% at December 31, 2005
compared to approximately 5.16% at December 31, 2004.
Amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, which increased
the fair value of our debt acquired in the TRC Merger, decreased
interest expense by approximately $51 million in 2005 and
$1 million in 2004. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for
information regarding 2006 financing activity and Item 7A,
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk,  for additional information regarding the potential
impact of future interest rate increases.

The increase in the provision for income taxes for 2005
primarily relates to operations acquired in the TRC Merger,
including the Master Planned Communities segment, which are
conducted by various taxable entities.

Substantially all of the increases in tenant rents (which
includes minimum rents, tenant recoveries and overage rents),
land sales, property operating expenses and land sales
operations was attributable to acquisitions. The increase in
property operating expenses attributable to acquisitions was
partially offset by a $3.1 million decrease in operating
costs at substantially all properties.

Management and other fees declined as a result of joint venture
partnership interest acquisitions. We acquired the remaining 49%
interest in GGP/ Ivanhoe III from our joint venture partner
in July 2003 and the remaining 50% interest in Town East in
March 2004. As these joint ventures are now consolidated in our
results of operations, we no longer receive a management fee
from these properties. These decreases were partially offset by
increased development fees resulting from renovations at certain
of our Unconsolidated Properties.

Property management and other costs decreased primarily as a
result of lower costs in 2004 as the threshold-vesting stock
options ( TSOs ) granted in 2002 vested in 2003 and
there were no other previous groups of TSO grants that vested in
2004.

Depreciation and amortization increased $107.2 million as a
result of acquisitions and $28.2 million as a result of
additional depreciation on completed developments and other
capitalized building and equipment costs.

Interest expense increased $173.8 million as a result of
increased debt associated with acquisitions and
$19.8 million as a result of higher debt levels primarily
as a result of redevelopments and other working capital
requirements. Interest expense also includes debt extinguishment
costs of $15.9 million in 2004 and $2.5 million in
2003. This increase is primarily due to the write-off of
unamortized deferred finance costs related to debt which was
repaid in conjunction with the TRC Merger.

The increase in the provision for income taxes for 2004
primarily relates to operations acquired in the TRC Merger,
including the Master Planned Communities segment, which are
conducted by various taxable entities.

42

Table of Contents   

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Our primary uses and sources of our consolidated cash are as
follows:

Uses  
       
      Sources  

Short-term liquidity and capital needs such as:

Tenant construction allowances 
      Minor improvements made to individual properties
    that are not recoverable through common area maintenance charges
    to tenants 
      Dividend payments 
      Debt repayment requirements, including both
    principal and interest 
      Stock repurchases 
      Corporate and administrative expenses 

Operating cash flow, including the distributions of
    our share of cash flow produced by our Unconsolidated Real
    Estate Affiliates 
      Land sales from the Master Planned Communities
    segment 
      Borrowings under revolving credit facilities 

Longer-term liquidity needs such as:

Acquisitions 
      New development, including our master planned
    communities 
      Major redevelopment, renovation or expansion
    programs at individual properties 
      Debt repayment requirements, including both
    principal and interest 
      Purchase of Anchor stores available as a result of
    consolidations, including the Federated/ May merger* 
      Income tax liabilities 

Secured loans collateralized by individual
    properties 
      Unsecured loans at either a venture or company
    level 
      Construction loans 
      Mini-permanent loans 
      Long-term project financing 
      Joint venture financing with institutional
    partners 
      Equity securities 
      Asset sales, including the sale of certain office
    and industrial property acquired in the TRC Merger 

*  
     
    In August 2005, Federated Department Stores, Inc. completed its
    merger with May Department Stores Company. In July and October,
    Federated announced planned store closings which included 15 of
    our Anchor stores. We may purchase some of these stores. In
    addition, in 2006, we acquired six Mervyn s anchor
    locations for an aggregate purchase price of approximately
    $76 million. 

Cash Flows from Operating Activities 

Net cash provided by operating activities was
$842.0 million in 2005, $719.4 million in 2004 and
$585.7 million in 2003. Substantially all of the increases
were attributable to acquisitions.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities 

Net cash used in investing activities was $159.6 million in
2005, $9.0 billion in 2004 and $1.8 billion in 2003.
Substantially all of the changes were attributable to
acquisitions, including the TRC Merger in 2004.

As of December 31, 2005, we had 22 major approved
redevelopment projects underway (each with budgeted projected
expenditures, at our ownership share, in excess of
$10 million). Total projected expenditures (including our
share of the Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates) for the
22 redevelopment projects and the six new retail center
development projects that are under construction were
approximately $2.0 billion as of December 31, 2005.
Such development and redevelopment expenditures, together with
expenditures for 11 other potential new retail or mixed-use
developments, are expected to result in approximately $450 to
$800 million of expenditures per year for the years 2006 to
2009.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities 

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities was
($619.2) million in 2005, $8.3 billion in 2004 and
$1.1 billion in 2003.

43

Table of Contents   

Our consolidated debt and our pro rata share of the debt of our
Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates, after giving effect to
interest rate swap agreements, were as follows:

During 2005, we obtained approximately $3.9 billion of
consolidated debt through new financings and refinancings. Our
share of debt issued by our Unconsolidated Real Estate
Affiliates totaled approximately $840 million during the
same period. Proceeds from the issuances were used, in part, to
repay $2.7 billion of variable-rate debt. The new debt,
substantially all of which is at fixed rates, bears interest at
a weighted-average rate of approximately 5.09%.

The rate on the four-year term loan was reduced by 25 basis
points in June 2005 and the rates on the revolving credit
facility and three-year term loan were reduced by 50 basis
points in September 2005. The 2004 Credit Facility bore
interest, until refinanced as discussed immediately below, at a
weighted-average rate of LIBOR plus approximately 184 basis
points.

In February 2006, we entered into several debt agreements. The
proceeds of these transactions were used to reduce the amounts
outstanding under the 2004 Credit Facility.

On February 24, 2006, we restated the 2004 Credit Facility
and entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
(the  2006 Credit Facility ). The 2006 Credit Facility
provides for a $2.85 billion term loan (the  Term
Loan ) and a $650 million revolving credit facility.

The 2006 Credit Facility has a four year term, with a one year
extension option. The interest rate ranges from LIBOR plus 1.15%
to LIBOR plus 1.5%, depending on our leverage ratio and assuming
we maintain our election to have these loans designated as
Eurodollar loans. The current interest rate is LIBOR plus 1.25%.
Quarterly principal payments of $12.5 million on the Term
Loan begin March 31, 2007, with the balance due at maturity.

Under the terms of the 2006 Credit Facility, we are subject to
customary affirmative and negative covenants as we were under
the 2004 Credit Facility. If a default occurs, the lenders will
have the option of declaring all

44

Table of Contents   

outstanding amounts immediately due and payable. These events of
default include a failure to maintain our REIT status under the
Internal Revenue Code, a failure to remain listed on the New
York Stock Exchange and such customary events as nonpayment of
principal, interest, fees or other amounts, breach of
representations and warranties, breach of covenant,
cross-default to other indebtedness and certain bankruptcy
events.

Concurrently with the 2006 Credit Facility, we also entered into
a $1.4 billion term loan (the  Short Term Loan ),
TRCLP entered into a $500 million term loan (the
 Bridge Loan ) and we issued $200 million of
trust preferred securities through GGP Capital Trust I. All
of these arrangements are subject to customary affirmative and
negative covenants and events of default.

The interest rate on the Short Term Loan is the same as on the
2006 Credit Facility (currently LIBOR plus 1.25%). An
$800 million principal payment is due under the Short Term
Loan on August 14, 2006, with the balance due on
December 31, 2006. We are required to apply the net
proceeds of the refinancing of Ala Moana Center toward
prepayment of the Short Term Loan.

The Bridge Loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.3% until
May 24, 2006, and at LIBOR plus 1.55% thereafter, (assuming
we maintain our election to have the loan designated as a
Eurodollar loan) and is due August 24, 2006. We intend to
repay the Bridge Loan with proceeds obtained from the sale of
bonds issued by TRCLP.

As mentioned above, GGP Capital Trust I, a Delaware
statutory trust (the  Trust ) and a wholly owned
subsidiary of GGPLP, completed a private placement of
$200 million of floating rate Preferred Securities. The
Trust also issued $6.2 million of Common Securities to
GGPLP. The Trust used the proceeds from the sale of the
Preferred and Common Securities to purchase $206.2 million
of floating rate Junior Subordinated Notes of GGPLP due 2036.
The Preferred Securities require distributions equal to LIBOR
plus 1.45%. Distributions are cumulative and accrue from the
date of original issuance. The Preferred Securities mature on
April 30, 2036, but may be redeemed beginning on
April 30, 2011 if we exercise our right to redeem a like
amount of the Junior Subordinated Notes. The Junior Subordinated
Notes bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.45%.

Although agreements to refinance debt maturing in 2006 have not
yet been reached, we currently anticipate that all of our debt
will be repaid or refinanced on a timely basis. We believe that
we have sufficient sources of funds to meet our cash needs and
that covenants in the 2006 Credit Facility will not materially
impact our liquidity or our ability to operate our business.
However, there can be no assurance that we can obtain such
financing on satisfactory terms. We will continue to monitor our
capital structure, investigate potential investments or joint
venture partnership arrangements and purchase additional
properties if they can be acquired and financed on terms that we
reasonably believe will enhance long-term stockholder value. We
intend to continue to evaluate the percentage of variable-rate
debt to total debt in 2006.

We have not generally guaranteed the debt of the Unconsolidated
Real Estate Affiliates, however, certain Consolidated Properties
are cross-collateralized with Unconsolidated Properties
(Note 5) and we have retained or agreed to be responsible
for a portion of certain debt of the Unconsolidated Real Estate
Affiliates (Note 5).

During May 2005, we also redeemed $183 million of perpetual
preferred units, which represented substantially all of the
preferred units which we were able to redeem at that time.

Treasury Stock 

On August 3, 2005, we announced that our Board of Directors
authorized, effective immediately, a $200 million per
fiscal year common stock repurchase program. Stock repurchases
under this program are made through open market or privately
negotiated transactions through 2009, unless the program is
earlier terminated. The repurchase program gives us the ability
to acquire some or all of the shares of common stock to be
issued upon the exercise of certain employee stock options and
pursuant to the CSA. During 2005, we repurchased
2,214,000 shares for $99.6 million under this program.

Warrant Offering 

On November 17, 2004, we sold 15.9 million shares of
our common stock for $32.23 per share pursuant to a warrant
offering.

45

Table of Contents   

Contractual Cash Obligations and Commitments 

The following table aggregates our contractual cash obligations
and commitments subsequent to December 31, 2005:

(1)  
     
    Excludes non-cash purchase accounting adjustments. 

(2)  
     
    Reflects $250 million minimum purchase price of the Palazzo
    (Note 3). We currently expect the actual purchase price to
    be approximately $600 million. 

(3)  
     
    Reflects accrued and incurred construction costs payable.
    Routine trade payables have been excluded. We expect development
    and redevelopment expenditures of $450 to $800 million per
    year for the years 2006 to 2009. 

(4)  
     
    Other long-term liabilities related to ongoing real estate taxes
    have not been included in the table as such amounts depend upon
    future applicable real estate tax rates. Real estate tax expense
    was $206.2 million in 2005, $128.3 million in 2004 and
    $88.3 million in 2003. 

We anticipate that all of our debt will be repaid or refinanced
on a timely basis. Other than as described above or in
conjunction with possible future new developments or
acquisitions, there are no current plans to incur additional
debt, increase the amounts available under our credit facilities
or raise equity capital.

We believe that we have adequate sources of funds if additional
capital is required for any of the above listed obligations or
for other purposes. However, there can be no assurance that we
can obtain such financing on satisfactory terms.

TRC acquired various assets, including Summerlin, a master
planned community in suburban Las Vegas, Nevada, in the
acquisition of The Hughes Corporation ( Hughes ) in
1996. In connection with the acquisition of Hughes, TRC entered
into a Contingent Stock Agreement ( CSA ) for the
benefit of the former Hughes owners or their successors
( beneficiaries ). Under the terms of the CSA, shares
of TRC common stock were issuable to the beneficiaries based on
the appraised values of defined asset groups, including
Summerlin, at specified termination dates through 2009 and/or
cash flows from the development and/or sale of those assets
prior to the termination dates. We assumed TRC s obligation
under the CSA to deliver shares of our common stock twice a year
to beneficiaries under the CSA. The amount of shares is based
upon a formula set forth in the CSA and upon our stock price.
Such issuances could be dilutive to our existing stockholders if
the delivery obligation is satisfied by the issuance of new
shares rather than from treasury stock or shares purchased on
the open market. We account for the beneficiaries  share of
earnings from the assets as an operating expense. We will
account for any distributions to the beneficiaries in 2009,
which could be significant, in connection with a valuation
related to assets that we own as of such date as additional
investments in the related assets (that is, contingent
consideration). A total of 1,552,385 shares of our common
stock were issued in 2005 pursuant to the CSA. At
December 31, 2005, 755,642 shares of common stock
($35.3 million) were issuable to the beneficiaries,
representing their share of cash flows for the semi-annual
period ended December 31, 2005.

46

Table of Contents   

Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements 

We do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements.

REIT Requirements 

In order to remain taxed as a real estate investment trust for
federal income tax purposes, we must distribute or pay tax on
100% of our capital gains and at least 90% of our ordinary
taxable income to stockholders. The following factors, among
others, will affect operating cash flow and, accordingly,
influence the decisions of the Board of Directors regarding
distributions:

Scheduled increases in base rents of existing leases 

Changes in minimum base rents and/or overage rents attributable
    to replacement of existing leases with new or renewal leases 

Changes in occupancy rates at existing centers and procurement
    of leases for newly developed centers 

Necessary capital improvement expenditures or debt repayments at
    existing properties 

Our share of distributions of operating cash flow generated by
    the Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates, less management costs
    and debt service on additional loans that have been or will be
    incurred 

Anticipated proceeds from sales in our Master Planned
    Communities segment 

We anticipate that our operating cash flow and potential new
debt or equity will provide adequate liquidity to conduct our
operations, fund general and administrative expenses, fund
operating costs and interest payments and allow distributions to
our stockholders in accordance with the requirements of the Code.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements and Developments 

As described in Note 15, new accounting pronouncements have
been issued which are effective for the current or subsequent
year. We do not expect a significant impact on our financial
statements due to the application of these new pronouncements.

Inflation 

Inflation has been relatively low in recent years and has not
had a significant detrimental impact on us. Should inflation
rates increase in the future, substantially all of our tenant
leases contain provisions designed to partially mitigate the
negative impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses
enabling us to receive overage rents based on tenants 
gross sales, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or
escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during
the terms of the leases. In addition, many of the leases expire
each year which may enable us to replace or renew such expiring
leases with new leases at higher base and/or overage rents, if
rents under the expiring leases are below the then-existing
market rates. Finally, many of the existing leases require the
tenants to pay amounts related to all, or substantially all, of
their share of certain operating expenses, including common area
maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby partially
reducing our exposure to increases in costs and operating
expenses resulting from inflation. In general, these amounts
either vary annually based on actual expenditures or are set on
an initial share of costs with provisions for annual increases.

Inflation also poses a risk to us due to the probability of
future increases in interest rates. Such increases would
adversely impact us due to our outstanding variable-rate debt
which increased substantially as a result of the TRC Merger. We
have limited our exposure to interest rate fluctuations related
to a portion of our variable-rate debt by the use of interest
rate cap and swap agreements. Finally, subject to current market
conditions, we have a policy of replacing variable-rate debt
with fixed-rate debt. However, in an increasing interest rate
environment (which generally follows improved market
conditions), the fixed rates we can obtain with such replacement
fixed-rate debt will also continue to increase.

47

Table of Contents   

Forward-Looking Information 

We may make forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and
in other reports and proxy statements which we file with the
SEC. In addition, our senior management might make
forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the
media and others.

Forward-looking statements include:

Projections of our revenues, income, earnings per share, Funds
    From Operations, capital expenditures, dividends, capital
    structure or other financial items 

Descriptions of plans or objectives of our management for future
    operations, including pending acquisitions 

Forecasts of our future economic performance 

Descriptions of assumptions underlying or relating to any of the
    foregoing 

In this Annual Report, for example, we make forward-looking
statements discussing our expectations about:

Future repayment of debt, including the ratio of variable to
    fixed-rate debt in our portfolio 

Future interest rates 

Forward-looking statements discuss matters that are not
historical facts. Because they discuss future events or
conditions, forward-looking statements often include words such
as  anticipate,   believe, 
 estimate,   expect,   intend, 
 plan,   project,   target, 
 can,   could,   may, 
 should,   will,   would  or
similar expressions. Forward-looking statements should not be
unduly relied upon. They give our expectations about the future
and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as
of the date they are made and we might not update them to
reflect changes that occur after the date they are made.

There are several factors, many beyond our control, which could
cause results to differ significantly from our expectations.
Factors such as credit, market, operational, liquidity, interest
rate and other risks, are described elsewhere in this Annual
Report. Any factor described in this Annual Report could by
itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely
affect our business, results of operations or financial
condition. There are also other factors that we have not
described in this Annual Report that could cause results to
differ from our expectations.

48

Table of Contents   

GLOSSARY 

Anchor:  A department store or other large retail store
with gross leaseable area greater than 30,000 square feet.

Code:  The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

Common Units:  The common units of GGP Limited Partnership
held by limited partners.

Company Portfolio:  Includes both the Unconsolidated
Properties and the Consolidated Properties.

Consolidated Properties:  Properties in which we own
either a majority or a controlling interest and, as a result,
are consolidated under GAAP.

CSA:  The Contingent Stock Agreement under which we
assumed the obligations of TRC to issue shares of common stock
twice a year to the beneficiaries thereunder.

Exchange Act:  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Freestanding GLA:  The gross leaseable area of
freestanding retail stores in locations that are not attached to
the primary complex of buildings that comprise a shopping
center, measured in square feet.

Funds From Operations or FFO:  A supplemental measure of
operating performance defined by NAREIT as net income (loss)
(computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains or losses
from cumulative effects of accounting changes, extraordinary
items and sales of properties, plus real estate related
depreciation and amortization and after adjustments for
unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.

GAAP:  Accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America.

GGMI:  General Growth Management, Inc., which manages,
leases, and performs various services for some of our
Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates and over 30 properties
owned by unaffiliated third parties, all located in the United
States.

GGPLP:  GGP Limited Partnership, also referred to herein
as the Operating Partnership, the partnership through which
substantially all of our business is conducted.

Gross Leaseable Area or GLA:  Gross leaseable retail
space, including Anchors and all other leaseable areas, measured
in square feet.

Mall GLA:  Gross leaseable retail space, excluding both
Anchors and Freestanding GLA, measured in square feet.

Mall Stores:  Stores (other than Anchors) that are
typically specialty retailers who lease space in the structure
including, or attached to, the primary complex of buildings that
comprise a shopping center.

MD&A:  The Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in
Item 7 of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

NAREIT:  The National Association of Real Estate
Investment Trusts.

NOI:  Real estate property net operating income, the
measure of property operating performance used by management.

Operating Partnership:  GGP Limited Partnership, also
referred to as GGPLP, the partnership through which
substantially all of our business is conducted.

Overage rent:  Rent paid by the tenant if its sales exceed
an agreed upon minimum amount. The amount is calculated by
multiplying the sales in excess of the minimum amount by a
percentage defined in the applicable lease.

REIT:  A real estate investment trust.

Retail Portfolio:  The retail centers and mixed-use and
other properties within our Retail and Other segment.

SEC:  The United States Securities and Exchange Commission.

49

Table of Contents   

Significant Tenants:  Any tenant at a community/ strip
center with gross leaseable area greater than 10,000 square
feet.

Total GLA:  The gross leaseable area of anchor stores plus
Mall and Freestanding GLA.

Total Mall Stores Sales:  The gross revenue from product
sales to customers generated by the Mall Stores.

TRC Merger:  The transaction in which we acquired The
Rouse Company, a real estate development and management company,
on November 12, 2004.

TRCLP:  The Rouse Company LP.

TRS:  An entity that has elected to be treated as taxable
REIT subsidiary.

Unconsolidated Properties:  Properties owned by
Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates and which are
unconsolidated under GAAP.

Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates:  Joint venture
entities in which we own a non-controlling interest.

Item 7A.  
     
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
    Risk   

We have not entered into any transactions using derivative
commodity instruments. We are subject to market risk associated
with changes in interest rates both in terms of variable-rate
debt and the price of new fixed-rate debt upon maturity of
existing debt and for acquisitions. As of December 31,
2005, we had consolidated debt of $20.4 billion, including
$6.5 billion of variable-rate debt of which approximately
$883.1 million was subject to interest rate swap
agreements, which fix the interest rate we are required to pay
on such debt at approximately 5.46% per annum. Although the
majority of the remaining variable-rate debt is subject to
interest rate cap agreements pursuant to the loan agreements and
financing terms, such interest rate caps generally limit our
interest rate exposure only if LIBOR exceeds a rate per annum
significantly higher (generally above 8% per annum) than
current LIBOR rates (4.39% at December 31, 2005). A
25 basis point movement in the interest rate on the
$5.6 billion of variable-rate debt which is not subject to
interest rate swap agreements would result in an approximately
$14.1 million annualized increase or decrease in
consolidated interest expense and operating cash flows.

In addition, we are subject to interest rate exposure as a
result of variable-rate debt collateralized by the
Unconsolidated Properties for which similar interest rate swap
agreements have not been obtained. Our share (based on our
respective equity ownership interests in the Unconsolidated Real
Estate Affiliates) of such remaining variable-rate debt was
approximately $455.6 million at December 31, 2005. A
similar 25 basis point annualized movement in the interest
rate on the variable-rate debt of the Unconsolidated Real Estate
Affiliates would result in an approximately $1.1 million
annualized increase or decrease in our equity in the income and
operating cash flows from Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates.

We are further subject to interest rate risk with respect to our
fixed-rate financing in that changes in interest rates will
impact the fair value of our fixed-rate financing. To determine
fair value, the fixed-rate debt is discounted at a rate based on
an estimate of current lending rates, assuming the debt is
outstanding through maturity and considering the collateral. At
December 31, 2005, the fair value of our debt is estimated
to be approximately $28.8 million lower than the carrying
value of $20.4 billion. If LIBOR were to increase by
25 basis points, the fair value of our debt would be
approximately $158.0 million lower than the carrying value
and the fair value of our swap agreements would increase by
approximately $1.6 million. For additional information
concerning our debt, reference is made to Item 7, Liquidity
and Capital Resources and Note 6.

Item 8.  
     
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

Reference is made to the Consolidated Financial Statements and
Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule beginning on page F-1
for the required information.

50

Table of Contents   

Item 9.  
     
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.  
     
      Controls and Procedures   

Disclosure Controls and Procedures.  As of the end of the
period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation,
under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including the Chief Executive Officer
( CEO ) and Chief Financial Officer ( CFO ),
of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and 15(d)-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, (the  Exchange Act )). Based on that
evaluation, the CEO and the CFO have concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that
information that we are required to disclose in the reports we
file or submit under the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms.

Internal Controls over Financing Reporting.  There have
been no changes in our internal controls during our most
recently completed fiscal quarter that have materially affected
or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal
control over financial reporting or in other factors that could
significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the end of
the period covered by this report.

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING 

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed under the
supervision of our principal executive and principal financial
officers to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and preparation of our
financial statements for external reporting purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
U.S.

As of December 31, 2005, we conducted an assessment of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
based on the framework utilizing the criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
in  Internal Controls   Integrated
Framework.  Based on this assessment management believes
that, as of December 31, 2005, the Company did not maintain
effective internal control over financial reporting because of
the effect of material weaknesses in the Company s system
of internal controls. During the closing process for the year
ended December 31, 2005, management determined that:

the Company did not maintain effective controls at the
    Company s subsidiary over the process of identifying,
    communicating, recording and tracking various items that create
    current and deferred income taxes; and 

the Company had insufficient personnel resources with technical
    accounting expertise to enable it to conduct a timely and
    accurate financial close process. 

Subsequent to the period covered by this report, management of
the Company reviewed and evaluated the design of the internal
control process for accounting for income taxes and the staffing
level with technical accounting expertise and is taking the
following actions to remediate these reported material
weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting by:

Reviewing the documentation for the income tax closing process
    and documentation procedures to determine if changes are
    appropriate to more clearly set forth the quarterly and annual
    income tax closing process requirements; 

Educating and training Company employees about accounting and
    reporting for income tax; 

51

Table of Contents   

Hiring employees to fill tax-related positions that were vacant
    at December 31, 2005; 

Creating additional positions to review and coordinate the
    implementation and maintenance of internal controls over
    accounting for income tax; 

Hiring additional accounting staff with requisite technical
    accounting expertise; 

Adhering to the Company s closing process, including
    monitoring controls and documentation procedures with the
    assistance and oversight of additional Company employees; 

The Company s management has discussed these material
weaknesses, initial corrective actions and both current and
future plans with the Audit Committee, who concurred with
management.

Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Company s independent
registered public accounting firm, audited management s
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 and, based on
that audit, issued the report set forth herein.

52

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

General Growth Properties, Inc.

Chicago, Illinois

We have audited management s assessment, included in the
accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting, that General Growth Properties, Inc. and
subsidiaries (the  Company ) did not maintain
effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005, because of the effect of the material
weaknesses identified in management s assessment, based on
criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on management s
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting based
on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
company s principal executive and principal financial
officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected
by the company s board of directors, management, and other
personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over
financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
improper management override of controls, material misstatements
due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a
timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness on the internal control over financial reporting
to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination
of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote
likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim
financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The
following material weaknesses have been identified and included
in management s assessment:

As of December 31, 2005, the Company did not maintain
    effective controls at the Company s The Rouse Company LP
    subsidiary over the process of identifying, communicating and
    tracking various items that create current and deferred income
    taxes. Specifically, the current portion of the tax provision
    was not accurately determined and the Company did not adequately
    review the differences between the income tax basis and
    financial reporting basis of assets and liabilities and
    reconcile the differences to recorded deferred income tax assets
    and liabilities. In addition, the tax department was not
    appropriately staffed to 

53

Table of Contents   

conduct a timely and accurate review of the tax provision. The
    consolidated financial statements were adjusted prior to the
    Company filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K to properly
    reflect several financial statement line items, including
    current and deferred taxes, as well as goodwill. 

As of December 31, 2005, the Company s controls over
    the financial close process did not operate effectively. There
    are insufficient personnel resources with technical accounting
    expertise to conduct a timely and accurate financial close. The
    consolidated financial statements were corrected prior to the
    Company filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These error
    corrections affected various items within the consolidated
    statement of cash flows and a number of financial statement line
    items, including buildings and equipment, goodwill, investment
    in unconsolidated real estate affiliates, accounts payable and
    accrued expenses, equity in net income of unconsolidated
    affiliates and interest expense. 

These material weaknesses were considered in determining the
nature, timing and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of
the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial
statement schedule as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2005, of the Company and this report does not
affect our report on such consolidated financial statements and
consolidated financial statement schedule.

In our opinion, management s assessment that the Company
did not maintain effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all
material respects, based on the criteria established in
 Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Also in our opinion, because of the effect of the
material weaknesses described above on the achievement of the
objections of the control criteria, the Company has not
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on
the criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial
statement schedule as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2005 of the Company and our reports dated
March 31, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those
consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial
statement schedule.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE
LLP

Chicago, Illinois

March 31, 2006

54

Table of Contents   

Item 9B.  
     
      Other Information   

None.

PART III 

Item 10.  
     
      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

The information which appears under the captions  Election
of Directors,   Executive Officers, 
 Governance of the Company   Committees of
the Board of Directors   Audit Committee 
and    Nominating & Governance
Committee  and  Stock
Ownership   Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our proxy statement for
our 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated by
reference into this Item 10.

We have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which applies to
all of our employees, officers and directors, including our
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on the
Corporate Governance page of our website at
 www.generalgrowth.com  and we will provide a copy of the
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics without charge to any person
who requests it in writing to: General Growth Properties, Inc.,
110 N. Wacker Dr., Chicago, IL 60606, Attn: Director
of Investor Relations. We will post on our website amendments to
or waivers of our Code of Ethics for executive officers, in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have
signed certificates under Sections 302 and 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which are filed as Exhibits 31.1 and
31.2 and 32.1 and 32.2, respectively, to this Annual Report. In
addition, our Chief Executive Officer submitted his most recent
annual certification to the NYSE pursuant to
Section 303A 12(a) of the NYSE listing standards on
May 25, 2005, in which he indicated that he was not aware
of any violations of NYSE corporate governance listing standards.

Item 11.  
     
      Executive Compensation   

The information which appears under the caption  Executive
Compensation  in our proxy statement for our 2006 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated by reference into this
Item 11; provided, however, that the Report of the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on Executive
Compensation shall not be incorporated by reference herein, in
any of our previous filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, or the Exchange Act, or in any of our future filings.

Item 12.  
     
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

The information which appears under the captions  Stock
Ownership   Common Stock Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners  and    Equity Ownership
of Management  in our proxy statement for our 2006 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated by reference into this
Item 12.

55

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth certain information with respect
to shares of our common stock that may be issued under our
equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2005.

(1)  
     
    Includes shares of common stock under the 1993 Stock Incentive
    Plan (which terminated on April 4, 2003), the 1998
    Incentive Stock Plan and the 2003 Incentive Stock Plan. 

(2)  
     
    Includes 6,645,500 shares of common stock available for
    issuance under the 2003 Incentive Stock Plan and
    5,562,235 shares of common stock available for issuance
    under the 1998 Incentive Stock Plan. 

(3)  
     
    Represents shares of common stock under our Employee Stock
    Purchase Plan, which was adopted by the Board of Directors in
    November 1998. Under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, eligible
    employees make payroll deductions over a six-month period, at
    which time the amounts withheld are used to purchase shares of
    common stock at a purchase price equal to 85% of the lesser of
    the closing price of a share of common stock on the first or
    last trading day of the purchase period. Purchases of common
    stock under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan are made on the
    first business day of the next month after the close of the
    purchase period. Under New York Stock Exchange rules then in
    effect, stockholder approval was not required for the Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan because it is a broad-based plan available
    generally to all employees. 

Item 13.  
     
      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   

The information which appears under the caption  Certain
Relationships and Related Party Transactions  in our proxy
statement for our 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is
incorporated by reference into this Item 13.

Item 14.  
     
      Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

The information which appears under the caption
 Independent Public Accountants   Fees Billed by
Independent Public Accountants and  Independent Public
Accountants   Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies
and Procedures  in our proxy statement for our 2006 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated by reference into this
Item 14.

56

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

Item 15.  
     
      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a)  Financial Statements and Financial Statement
Schedules. 

The consolidated financial statements and schedule listed in the
    accompanying Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and
    Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule are filed as part of
    this Annual Report. 

(b)  Exhibits. 

See Exhibit Index on page S-1. 

(c)  Separate financial statements. 

Not applicable. 

57

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

General Growth Properties,
    Inc.

By:  
     
    /s/  John Bucksbaum

John Bucksbaum 

Chief Executive Officer  

March 31, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  
       
      Date  

/s/  Matthew Bucksbaum 
     
     Matthew Bucksbaum 

Chairman of the Board 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  John Bucksbaum 
     
     John Bucksbaum 

Director and Chief Executive Officer 
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Robert Michaels 
     
     Robert Michaels 

Director, President and 
    Chief Operating Officer 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Bernard Freibaum 
     
     Bernard Freibaum 

Director, Executive Vice President 
    and Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial 
    and Accounting Officer) 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Alan Cohen 
     
     Alan Cohen 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Anthony Downs 
     
     Anthony Downs 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Adam Metz 
     
     Adam Metz 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Thomas Nolan 
     
     Thomas Nolan 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  John Riordan 
     
     John Riordan 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Beth Stewart 
     
     Beth Stewart 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

58

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND 

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE 

The following consolidated financial statements and consolidated
financial statement schedule are included in Item 8 of this
Annual Report on
Form  10-K: 

Page    

Consolidated Financial Statements 

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm   General Growth Properties,
    Inc.  

F-2 

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm   GGP/ Homart, Inc.  

F-3 

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm   GGP/ Homart II L.L.C.  

F-4 

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm   GGP-TRS, L.L.C.  

F-5 

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
    December 31, 2005 and 2004 

F-6 

Consolidated Statements of Income and
    Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2005,
    2004 and 2003 

F-7 

Consolidated Statements of
    Stockholders  Equity for the years ended December 31,
    2005, 2004 and 2003 

F-8 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
    the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

F-9 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements 

F-10 

Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule 

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm 

F-55 

Schedule III   Real Estate
    and Accumulated Depreciation 

F-56 

All other schedules are omitted since the required information
is either not present in any amounts, is not present in amounts
sufficient to require submission of the schedule or because the
information required is included in the consolidated financial
statements and related notes.

F-1

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

General Growth Properties, Inc.

Chicago, Illinois

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
General Growth Properties, Inc. and subsidiaries (the
 Company ) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and
the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive
income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
did not audit the consolidated financial statements of GGP/
Homart, Inc., GGP/ Homart II L.L.C., and
 GGP-TRS  L.L.C., the
Company s investments in which are accounted for by use of
the equity method. The Company s equity of $70,175,000 and
$126,855,000 in GGP/ Homart Inc. s net assets as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and of
$31,425,000, $21,148,000 and $23,815,000 in GGP/ Homart
Inc. s net income for each of the three years in the
respective period ended December 31, 2005 are included in
the accompanying financial statements. The Company s equity
of $259,716,000 and $319,537,000 in GGP/ Homart II
L.L.C. s net assets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, and of $33,849,000, $36,724,000 and $33,448,000 in
GGP/ Homart II L.L.C. s net income for each of the
three years in the respective period ended December 31,
2005 are included in the accompanying financial statements. The
Company s equity of $3,764,000 in
 GGP-TRS  L.L.C. s
net assets as of December 31, 2005, and of $19,308,000 in
 GGP-TRS  L.L.C. s
net income for the year then ended are included in the
accompanying financial statements. The financial statements of
GGP/ Homart, Inc., GGP/ Homart II L.L.C., and GGP-TRS
L.L.C. were audited by other auditors related to the periods
listed above whose reports have been furnished to us, and our
opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for such
companies, is based solely on the reports of such other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits and the
reports of the other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of the other
auditors, such consolidated financial statements present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of General
Growth Properties, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31,
2005 and 2004, and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on the
criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and our
report dated March 31, 2006 expressed an unqualified
opinion on management s assessment on the effectiveness of
the Company s internal control over financial reporting and
an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting because of material
weaknesses.

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Chicago, Illinois

March 31, 2006

F-2

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

The Stockholders

GGP/ Homart, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of GGP/ Homart,
Inc. (a Delaware Corporation) and subsidiaries (the Company) as
of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated
statements of income and comprehensive income,
stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005 (not
presented separately herein). These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of GGP/ Homart, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

KPMG LLP

Chicago, Illinois

March 17, 2006

F-3

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To Members

GGP/ Homart II L.L.C.:

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of GGP/
Homart II L.L.C. (a Delaware Limited Liability Company) and
subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2005 and
2004, and the related consolidated statements of income and
comprehensive income, changes in members  capital, and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2005 (not presented separately herein). These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of GGP/ Homart II L.L.C. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

KPMG LLP

Chicago, Illinois

March 17, 2006

F-4

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Members GGP-TRS, L.L.C.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of
GGP   TRS L.L.C. (a Deleware limited liability
company) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005, and the
related consolidated statement of operations, changes in
members  capital, and cash flow for the then year ended
(not presented separately herein). These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of GGP   TRS L.L.C. and subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2005, and the result of their operations
and their cash flow for the year then ended, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

KPMG LLP

Chicago, Illinois

March 17, 2006

F-5

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.

F-7

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.

F-8

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.

F-9

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Note 1     Organization 

General   

General Growth Properties, Inc. ( General Growth ), a
Delaware corporation, is a self-administered and self-managed
real estate investment trust, referred to as a  REIT. 
General Growth was organized in 1986 and through its
subsidiaries and affiliates owns, operates, manages, leases,
acquires, develops, expands and finances operating properties
located primarily throughout the United States and develops and
sells land for residential, commercial and other uses primarily
in master planned communities. The operating properties consist
of retail centers, office and industrial buildings and mixed-use
and other properties. Land development and sales operations are
predominantly related to large-scale, long-term community
development projects in and around Columbia, Maryland;
Summerlin, Nevada; and Houston, Texas. In these notes, the terms
 we,   us  and  our  refer to
General Growth and its subsidiaries (the  Company ).

Substantially all of our business is conducted through GGP
Limited Partnership (the  Operating Partnership  or
 GGPLP ). As of December 31, 2005, ownership of
the Operating Partnership was as follows:

82 
     % 

General Growth, as sole general partner 

16 

Limited partners that indirectly include family members of the
    original stockholders of the Company. Represented by common
    units of limited partnership interest (the  Common
    Units ) 

2 

Limited partners that include subsequent contributors of
    properties to the Operating Partnership which are also
    represented by Common Units. 

100 
     % 

The Operating Partnership also has preferred units of limited
partnership interest (the  Preferred Units )
outstanding. Under certain circumstances, the Preferred Units
are convertible into Common Units which are redeemable for
shares of our common stock on a
 one-for-one  basis.

In addition to holding ownership interests in various joint
ventures, the Operating Partnership generally conducts its
operations through the following subsidiaries:

GGPLP L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (the
     LLC ), has ownership interests in the majority of our
    properties (other than those acquired in The Rouse Company
    merger (the  TRC Merger,  Note 3)). 

The Rouse Company LP ( TRCLP ), successor to The Rouse
    Company ( TRC ), which includes both REIT and taxable
    REIT subsidiaries ( TRSs ), has ownership interests in
    Consolidated Properties and Unconsolidated Properties (each as
    defined below). 

General Growth Management, Inc. ( GGMI ), a TRS,
    manages, leases, and performs various other services for some of
    our Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates (as defined below) and
    approximately 30 properties owned by unaffiliated third
    parties. 

In this report, we refer to our ownership interests in
majority-owned or controlled properties as  Consolidated
Properties,  to joint ventures in which we own a
non-controlling interest as  Unconsolidated Real Estate
Affiliates  and the properties owned by such joint ventures
as the  Unconsolidated Properties.  Our  Company
Portfolio  includes both our Consolidated Properties and
our Unconsolidated Properties.

Shareholder Rights Plan   

We have a shareholder rights plan pursuant to which one
preferred share purchase right (a  Right ) is attached
to each currently outstanding or subsequently issued share of
our common stock. Prior to becoming exercisable, the Rights
trade together with our common stock. In general, the Rights
will become exercisable

F-10

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

if a person or group acquires or announces a tender or exchange
offer for 15% or more of our common stock. Each Right will
initially entitle the holder to purchase from General Growth
one-third of one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock, par value $100 per share (the
 Preferred Stock ), at an exercise price of $148 per
one one-thousandth of a share, subject to adjustment. If a
person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock, each
Right will entitle the holder (other than the acquirer) to
purchase shares of our common stock (or, in certain
circumstances, cash or other securities) having a market value
of twice the exercise price of a Right at such time. Under
certain circumstances, each Right will entitle the holder (other
than the acquirer) to purchase the common stock of the acquirer
having a market value of twice the exercise price of a Right at
such time. In addition, under certain circumstances, our Board
of Directors may exchange each Right (other than those held by
the acquirer) for one share of our common stock, subject to
adjustment. If the Rights become exercisable, holders of common
units of partnership interest in the Operating Partnership,
other than General Growth, will receive the number of Rights
they would have received if their units had been redeemed and
the purchase price paid in our common stock. The Rights expire
on November 18, 2008, unless earlier redeemed by our Board
of Directors for one-third of $0.01 per Right or such expiration
date is extended.

Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan   

We have reserved up to 3.0 million shares of our common
stock for issuance under the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock
Purchase Plan ( DRSP ). In general, the DRSP allows
participants to make purchases of our common stock from
dividends received or additional cash investments. Although the
purchase price of the common stock is determined by the current
market price, the purchases are made without fees or commissions
charged to the participant. We have and will continue to satisfy
DRSP common stock purchase needs through the issuance of new
shares of our common stock or by repurchases of currently
outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2005, an
aggregate of 535,528 shares of our common stock have been issued
under the DRSP.

Note 2  
     
     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

Principles of Consolidation   

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of General Growth, our subsidiaries and joint ventures
in which we have a controlling interest. Income allocated to
minority interests in these joint ventures includes the share of
such properties  operations (generally computed as the
respective joint venture partner ownership percentage)
applicable to such non-controlling venturers. All significant
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.

Properties   

Real estate assets are stated at cost. Construction and
improvement costs incurred in connection with the development of
new properties or the redevelopment of existing properties are
capitalized to the extent the total carrying value of the
property does not exceed the estimated fair value of the
completed property. Real estate taxes and interest costs
incurred during construction periods are capitalized.
Capitalized interest costs are based on qualified expenditures
and interest rates in place during the construction period.
Capitalized real estate taxes and interest costs are amortized
over lives which are consistent with the constructed assets.

Pre-development costs, which generally include legal and
professional fees and other directly-related third-party costs,
are capitalized as part of the property being developed. In the
event a development is no longer deemed to be probable, the
costs previously capitalized are expensed.

F-11

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Tenant improvements, either paid directly or in the form of
construction allowances paid to tenants, are capitalized and
depreciated over the average lease term. Maintenance and repairs
are charged to expense when incurred. Expenditures for
significant betterments and improvements are capitalized.

Our real estate assets, including developments in progress, are
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
recoverable. A real estate asset is considered to be impaired
when the estimated future undiscounted operating cash flow is
less than its carrying value. To the extent an impairment has
occurred, the excess of the carrying value of the asset over its
estimated fair value will be expensed to operations.

Depreciation or amortization expense is computed using the
straight-line method based upon the following estimated useful
lives:

Years    

Buildings and improvements

40-45 

Equipment, tenant improvements and fixtures

5-10 

Acquisitions of Operating Properties   

Acquisitions of properties are accounted for utilizing the
purchase method and, accordingly, the results of operations of
acquired properties are included in our results of operations
from the respective dates of acquisition. Estimates of future
cash flows and other valuation techniques are used to allocate
the purchase price of acquired property between land, buildings
and improvements, equipment and identifiable intangible assets
and liabilities such as amounts related to in-place at-market
tenant leases, acquired above and below-market tenant and ground
leases and tenant relationships. Initial valuations are subject
to change until such information is finalized no later than
12 months from the acquisition date.

The fair values of tangible assets are determined on an  if
vacant  basis. The  if-vacant  fair value is
allocated to land, where applicable, buildings, tenant
improvements and equipment based on comparable sales and other
relevant information obtained in connection with the acquisition
of the property.

The estimated fair value of acquired in-place at-market tenant
leases are the costs we would have incurred to lease the
property to the occupancy level of the property at the date of
acquisition. Such estimate includes the fair value of leasing
commissions, legal costs and tenant coordination costs that
would be incurred to lease the property to this occupancy level.
Additionally, we evaluate the time period over which such
occupancy level would be achieved and include an estimate of the
net operating costs (primarily real estate taxes, insurance and
utilities) incurred during the lease-up period, which generally
ranges up to one year. Acquired in-place at-market tenant leases
are amortized over the average lease term.

Intangible assets and liabilities are also recorded for
above-market and below-market in-place tenant and ground leases
where we are either the lessor or the lessee. Above-market and
below-market in-place tenant and ground lease values are
recorded based on the present value (using an interest rate
which reflects the risks associated with the leases acquired) of
the difference between the contractual amounts to be received or
paid pursuant to the in-place leases and our estimate of fair
market lease rates for the corresponding in-place leases,
measured over a period equal to the remaining non-cancelable
term of the leases. Above and below-market lease values are
amortized over the remaining non-cancelable terms of the
respective leases (approximately five years for tenant leases
and approximately 50 years for ground leases).

Due to existing contacts and relationships with tenants at our
currently owned properties and at properties currently managed
for others, no significant value has been ascribed to the tenant
relationships at the acquired properties.

F-12

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

The excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the net of the
amounts assigned to assets acquired (including identified
intangible assets) and liabilities assumed is recorded as
goodwill. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment
on an annual basis, or more frequently if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. An
impairment loss for an asset group is allocated to the
long-lived assets of the group on a pro-rata basis using the
relative carrying amounts of those assets, unless the fair value
of specific components of the reporting group are determinable
without undue cost and effort.

Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate
    Affiliates   

We account for investments in joint ventures where we own a
non-controlling joint interest using the equity method. Under
the equity method, the cost of our investment is adjusted for
our share of the equity in earnings of such Unconsolidated Real
Estate Affiliates from the date of acquisition and reduced by
distributions received. Generally, the operating agreements with
respect to our Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates provide
that assets, liabilities and funding obligations are shared in
accordance with our ownership percentages. Therefore, we
generally also share in the profit and losses, cash flows and
other matters relating to our Unconsolidated Real Estate
Affiliates in accordance with our respective ownership
percentages. Except for Retained Debt (as described in
Note 5), differences between the carrying value of our
investment in the Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates and our
share of the underlying equity of such Unconsolidated Real
Estate Affiliates are amortized over lives ranging from five to
forty years.

For those joint ventures where we own less than a 5% interest
and have virtually no influence on the joint venture s
operating and financial policies, we account for our investments
using the cost method.

Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments in Marketable
    Securities   

Highly-liquid investments with maturities at dates of purchase
of three months or less are classified as cash equivalents.

Investments in marketable securities with maturities at dates of
purchase in excess of three months are carried at amortized cost
as it is our intention to hold these investments until maturity.
Most investments in marketable securities are held in an
irrevocable trust for participants in our non-qualified defined
contribution plans which were acquired with the TRC Merger, are
classified as trading securities and are carried at market value
with changes in values recognized in earnings. Other investments
in marketable equity securities subject to significant
restrictions on sale or transfer are classified as
available-for-sale and are carried at market value with
unrealized changes in values recognized in other comprehensive
income.

Leases   

Leases which transfer substantially all the risks and benefits
of ownership to tenants are considered finance leases and the
present values of the minimum lease payments and the estimated
residual values of the leased properties, if any, are accounted
for as receivables. Leases which transfer substantially all the
risks and benefits of ownership to us are considered capital
leases and the present values of the minimum lease payments are
accounted for as assets and liabilities.

Deferred Expenses   

Deferred expenses consist principally of financing fees and
leasing costs and commissions. Deferred financing fees are
amortized to interest expense using the interest method (or
other methods which approximate the interest method) over the
terms of the respective agreements. Deferred leasing costs and
commissions are amortized using the straight-line method over
the average life of the tenant leases. Deferred expenses in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets are shown at cost, net of
accumulated amortization of $147.5 million as of
December 31, 2005 and $128.3 million as of
December 31, 2004.

F-13

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Minority Interests   Common
    (Note 12)   

Income is allocated to the holders of the Common Units (the
 OP Minority Interests ) based on their ownership
percentage of the Operating Partnership. This ownership
percentage, as well as the total net assets of the Operating
Partnership, change when additional shares of our common stock
or Common Units are issued. Such changes result in an allocation
between stockholders  equity and Minority
Interests   Common in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Due to the number of such capital transactions that occur each
period, we have presented a single net effect of all such
allocations for the period as the  Adjustment for Minority
Interest in Operating Partnership  in our Consolidated
Statements of Stockholders  Equity (rather than separately
allocating the minority interest for each individual capital
transaction).

Treasury Stock   

We account for repurchases of common stock using the cost method
with common stock in treasury classified in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets as a reduction of stockholders  equity.
Treasury stock is reissued at average cost.

Revenue Recognition and Related Matters   

Minimum rent revenues are recognized on a straight-line basis
over the terms of the related leases. Minimum rent revenues also
include amounts collected from tenants to allow the termination
of their leases prior to their scheduled termination dates and
accretion related to above and below-market tenant leases on
acquired properties as follows:

Straight-line rents receivable, which represent the current net
cumulative rents recognized prior to when billed and collectible
as provided by the terms of the leases, of approximately
$123.5 million as of December 31, 2005 and
$91.8 million as of December 31, 2004 are included in
accounts and notes receivable, net in our Consolidated Balance
Sheets.

We provide an allowance for doubtful accounts against the
portion of accounts receivable, including straight-line rents,
which is estimated to be uncollectible. Such allowances are
reviewed periodically based upon our recovery experience. We
also evaluate the probability of collecting future rent which is
recognized currently under a straight-line methodology. This
analysis considers the long-term nature of our leases, as a
certain portion of the straight-line rent currently recognizable
will not be billed to the tenant until many years into the
future. Our experience relative to unbilled deferred rent
receivable is that a certain portion of the amounts
straight-lined into revenue are never collected from (or billed
to) the tenant due to early lease terminations. For that portion
of the otherwise recognizable deferred rent that is not deemed
to be probable of collection, no revenue is recognized. Accounts
receivable in our Consolidated Balance Sheets are shown net of
an allowance for doubtful accounts of $54.6 million as of
December 31, 2005 and $48.6 million as of
December 31, 2004.

Overage rents are recognized on an accrual basis once tenant
sales exceed contractual tenant lease thresholds. Recoveries
from tenants are established in the leases or computed based
upon a formula related to real estate taxes, insurance and other
shopping center operating expenses and are generally recognized
as revenues in the period the related costs are incurred.

Management and other fees primarily represent management and
leasing fees, construction fees financing fees and fees for
other ancillary services performed by GGMI and other
subsidiaries (generally TRS entities owned

F-14

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

by TRCLP) for the benefit of the Unconsolidated Real Estate
Affiliates and for independent third-party investors. Such fees
are recognized as revenue as the services are rendered.

Revenues from land sales are recognized using the full accrual
method provided that various criteria relating to the terms of
the transactions and our subsequent involvement with the land
sold are met. Revenues relating to transactions that do not meet
the established criteria are deferred and recognized when the
criteria are met or using the installment or cost recovery
methods, as appropriate in the circumstances. For land sale
transactions in which we are required to perform additional
services and incur significant costs after title has passed,
revenues and cost of sales are recognized on a percentage of
completion basis.

Cost of land sales is determined as a specified percentage of
land sales revenues recognized for each community development
project. The cost ratios used are based on actual costs incurred
and estimates of development costs and sales revenues to
completion of each project. The ratios are reviewed regularly
and revised for changes in sales and cost estimates or
development plans. Significant changes in these estimates or
future development plans, whether due to changes in market
conditions or other factors, could result in changes to the cost
ratio used for a specific project. The specific identification
method is used to determine cost of sales for certain parcels of
land, including acquired parcels we do not intend to develop or
for which development is complete at the date of acquisition.

Income Taxes (Note 7)   

Deferred income taxes are accounted for using the asset and
liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events
that have been included in the financial statements or tax
returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities
are determined based on the differences between the financial
reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted
tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are
expected to reverse. Deferred income taxes also reflect the
impact of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A
valuation allowance is provided if we believe it is more likely
than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will
not be realized. An increase or decrease in the valuation
allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and which
causes a change in our judgment about the realizability of the
related deferred tax asset, is included in the current tax
provision.

Earnings Per Share ( EPS )   

Basic earnings per share ( EPS ) is computed by
dividing net income available to common stockholders by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted
EPS is computed after adjusting the numerator and denominator of
the basic EPS computation for the effects of all potentially
dilutive common shares. The dilutive effects of convertible
securities are computed using the  if-converted 
method and the dilutive effects of options, warrants and their
equivalents (including fixed awards and nonvested stock issued
under stock-based compensation plans) are computed using the
 treasury stock  method.

Dilutive EPS excludes anti-dilutive options where the exercise
price was higher than the average market price of our common
stock and options for which conditions for issuance were not
achieved. Such options totaled 1,026,777 in 2005, 1,590,974 in
2004 and 21,000 in 2003. Outstanding Common Units have also been
excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation because
there would be no effect on EPS as the minority interests 
share of income would also be added back to net income.

F-15

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Information related to our EPS calculations is summarized as
follows:

*  
     
    For the year ended December 31, 2003, the effect of the
    issuance of the PIERS is dilutive and, therefore, no adjustment
    of net income is made as the PIERS dilution is reflected in the
    denominator of the diluted EPS calculation. 

Derivative Financial Instruments  

We use derivative financial instruments to reduce risk
associated with movements in interest rates. We may choose or be
required by lenders to reduce cash flow and earnings volatility
associated with interest rate risk exposure on variable-rate
borrowings and/or forecasted fixed-rate borrowings by entering
into interest rate swaps or interest rate caps. We do not use
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.

Under interest rate cap agreements, we make initial premium
payments to the counterparties in exchange for the right to
receive payments from them if interest rates exceed specified
levels during the agreement period. Under interest rate swap
agreements, we and the counterparties agree to exchange the
difference between fixed-rate and variable-rate interest amounts
calculated by reference to specified notional principal amounts
during the agreement period. Notional principal amounts are used
to express the volume of these transactions, but the cash
requirements and amounts subject to credit risk are
substantially less.

Parties to interest rate exchange agreements are subject to
market risk for changes in interest rates and risk of credit
loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparty. We do
not require any collateral under these agreements, but deal only
with highly-rated financial institution counterparties (which,
in certain cases, are also the lenders on the related debt) and
expect that all counterparties will meet their obligations.

F-16

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Substantially all of our interest rate swap and other derivative
financial instruments that we used in 2005, 2004 and 2003
qualified as cash flow hedges and hedged our exposure to
forecasted interest payments on variable-rate LIBOR-based debt.
Accordingly, the effective portion of the instruments 
gains or losses is reported as a component of other
comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings when the
related forecasted transactions affect earnings. If we
discontinue a cash flow hedge because it is no longer probable
that the original forecasted transaction will occur, the net
gain or loss in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is
immediately reclassified into earnings. If we discontinue a cash
flow hedge because the variability of the probable forecasted
transaction has been eliminated, the net gain or loss in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is reclassified to
earnings.

We have not recognized any losses as a result of hedge
discontinuance and the expense that we recognized related to
changes in the time value of interest rate cap agreements and
ineffective hedges was insignificant for 2005, 2004 and 2003.

Amounts receivable or payable under interest rate cap and swap
agreements are accounted for as adjustments to interest expense
on the related debt.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

The fair values of our financial instruments approximate their
carrying value in our financial statements except for debt. We
estimated the fair value of our debt based on quoted market
prices for publicly-traded debt and on the discounted estimated
future cash payments to be made for other debt. The discount
rates used approximate current lending rates for loans or groups
of loans with similar maturities and credit quality, assume the
debt is outstanding through maturity and consider the
debt s collateral (if applicable). We have utilized market
information as available or present value techniques to estimate
the amounts required to be disclosed. Since such amounts are
estimates, there can be no assurance that the disclosed value of
any financial instrument could be realized by immediate
settlement of the instrument.

During the second quarter of 2002, we elected to prospectively
adopt the fair value based employee stock-based compensation
expense recognition provisions of FASB Statement No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation 
( SFAS 123 ). We had previously applied the
intrinsic value based expense recognition provisions set forth
in APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees  ( APB 25 ). Under APB 25,
compensation cost is recognized for awards of shares of common
stock or stock options only if the quoted market price of the
stock as of the grant date (or other measurement date, if later)
is greater than the amount the grantee must pay to acquire the
stock. Had compensation costs for options granted prior to
second quarter of 2002 been determined in accordance with
SFAS 123, our net income available to common stockholders
would have been nominally reduced but there would have been no
effect on reported basic or diluted earnings per share.

F-17

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Foreign Currency Translation   

The functional currency for our joint venture in Brazil is its
local currency. Assets and liabilities of this investment are
translated at the rate of exchange in effect on the balance
sheet date. Translation adjustments resulting from this process
are accumulated in stockholders  equity as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Use of Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America requires management to make estimates and assumptions.
These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. For example, significant estimates and assumptions have
been made with respect to useful lives of assets, capitalization
of development and leasing costs, provision for income taxes,
recoverable amounts of receivables, deferred taxes, initial
valuations and related amortization periods of deferred costs
and intangibles, particularly with respect to acquisitions, and
cost ratios and completion percentages used for land sales.
Actual results could differ from these and other estimates.

Reclassifications   

Certain amounts in the 2004 and 2003 consolidated financial
statements, including discontinued operations (Note 4),
have been reclassified to conform to the current year
presentation. In addition, in the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows for the year ended December 31, 2005, certain
expenditures relating to our master planned communities are
presented as operating activities. Such changes were previously
presented as investing activities. Additionally, proceeds from
the sale of marketable securities designated as trading, have
been presented as operating activities. Such proceeds were
previously presented as investing activities. The accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 2004, have been restated for such land sales
amounts, and proceeds from the sale of marketable securities
designated as trading and certain other minor items consistent
with the 2005 presentation. This restatement resulted in a
$32.5 million decrease to operating cash flows and
corresponding increases to investing and financing cash flows
from the amounts previously reported in 2004.

Note 3  
     
     Acquisitions and Intangibles  

The Rouse Company   

We acquired TRC, a real estate development and management
company, on November 12, 2004 through the TRC Merger.
Immediately following the TRC Merger, TRC was, through a series
of transactions, converted to a limited partnership
( TRCLP ) wholly-owned by the Operating Partnership
and its subsidiaries. The results of TRCLP s operations
have been included in our consolidated financial statements
since that date.

The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the
assets acquired at the date of acquisition, including
adjustments made during 2005 based on additional information.
The TRC merger was effected by

F-18

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

the purchase of all of TRC s outstanding stock at a cost of
approximately $6.8 billion and the assumption of TRC
liabilities (approximately $7.5 billion, including
approximately $5.1 billion of existing TRC debt).

The estimated fair value of liabilities assumed were also
reduced by approximately $126 million as additional
information became available.

Other Acquisitions  

In 2005, we made the following acquisitions, with a total
purchase price of approximately $130 million.

Acquisition Date    

20% ownership interest in Zaratustra Mall 
    (through Cencom, S.A. (Brazil))

August 3 

50% ownership interest in Pinnacle Hills Promenade 
    (through Rogers Retail L.L.C.)

September 30 

50% ownership interest in Circle T Power Center 
    (through 170 Retail Associates, LTD)

October 31 

50% ownership interest in Whalers Village 
    (through GGP-TRS, L.L.C.)

November 1 

F-19

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Additional acquisitions in 2004 included the following:

In addition to the acquisitions discussed above, we have entered
into a separate agreement (the  Phase II
Agreement ) to acquire the multi-level retail space that is
planned to be part of The Palazzo in Las Vegas, Nevada that
will be connected to the existing Venetian and the Sands Expo
and Convention Center facilities (the  Phase II
Acquisition ) and the Grand Canal Shoppes listed above. The
Palazzo is currently under construction and is expected to be
completed in 2007. If completed as specified under the terms of
the Phase II Agreement, we will purchase, payable upon
grand opening, the Phase II Acquisition retail space at a
price computed on a 6% capitalization rate on the projected net
operating income of the Phase II retail space, as defined
by the Phase II Agreement ( Phase II NOI ),
up to $38 million and on a capitalization rate of 8% on
Phase II NOI in excess of $38 million, all subject to a
minimum purchase price of $250 million. Based on current
construction plans, progress and estimated rents, we believe the
actual purchase price will be approximately $600 million.
The Phase II Agreement is subject to the satisfaction of
customary closing conditions.

Accounting for Acquisitions and Intangibles  

Acquisitions of properties are accounted for utilizing the
purchase method and, accordingly, the results of operations of
the acquired properties are included in our results of
operations subsequent to the respective dates of acquisition.
The purchase prices for all property acquisitions are subject to
certain prorations and adjustments. Estimates of future cash
flows and other valuation techniques are used to allocate the
purchase price of acquired property between land, buildings and
improvements, equipment and identifiable intangible assets and
liabilities.

F-20

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

The following table summarizes our intangible assets and
liabilities:

Amortization of these intangible assets and liabilities, and
similar assets and liabilities from our Unconsolidated Real
Estate Affiliates, increased (decreased) net income by
approximately $(157.5) million in 2005, $8.4 million in
2004 and $19.6 million in 2003.

Future amortization, including our share of such items from
Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates, is estimated to decrease
net income by approximately $190 million in 2006,
$160 million in 2007, $110 million in 2008,
$50 million in 2009, and $20 million in 2010.

Note 4  
     
     Discontinued Operations and Gains on Dispositions of
    Interests in Operating Properties  

On December 21, 2005, as approved in December 2005 by our
Board of Directors, we sold 7 buildings totaling approximately
705,000 square feet located in the Hunt Valley Business
Community in Hunt Valley, Maryland and 14 office buildings
totaling approximately 402,000 square feet in the Rutherford
Business Center, Woodlawn, Maryland. These 21 properties in
Baltimore County were sold at an aggregate sale price of
approximately $124.5 million, which was paid in cash at
closing. We recognized approximately $4.9 million in gain,
before minority interest, on the disposition of these office
properties.

On December 23, 2005, as approved in December 2005 by our
Board of Directors, we sold a sixteen building, 952,000 square
foot portfolio of industrial buildings for approximately $57
million, which was paid in cash at closing. The portfolio is
comprised of 10 buildings totaling 582,000 square feet in the
Hunt Valley Business Community and six buildings totaling
370,000 square feet in the Rutherford Business Center in
suburban Baltimore. The portfolio also includes three land
parcels totaling more than 18 acres. We recognized gain of
approximately $1.4 million, before minority interest, on
the disposition of these industrial properties.

F-21

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

The carrying amounts for these properties as of
December 31, 2004 were as follows:

In August 2004, our Board of Directors approved plans to dispose
of certain of the commercial/ business properties originally
acquired in the JP Realty acquisition in July 2002. The
sale closed on November 1, 2004 for $67.4 million and
a gain of approximately $11.2 million was recognized.

In March, 2003, our Board of Directors approved and we sold
McCreless Mall in San Antonio, Texas for $15.0 million and
a gain of approximately $4.0 million. McCreless Mall was
purchased in 1998 as part of a portfolio of eight shopping
centers.

Pursuant to SFAS No. 144, the operations of these
properties (net of minority interests) have been reported as
discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements. Revenues and income before minority
interests were as follows:

Note 5  
     
     Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates  

The Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates constitute our
 non-controlling 
investment in real estate joint ventures that own and/or develop
shopping centers, residential and commercial land, and other
retail and investment property. Generally, we share in the
profits and losses, cash flows and other matters relating to our
investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates in
accordance with our respective ownership percentages. We manage
most of the properties owned by these joint ventures. Some of
the joint ventures have elected to be taxed as REITs. Since we
have joint interest and control of the Unconsolidated Properties
with our venture partners, we account for these joint ventures
using the equity method.

In certain circumstances, we are obligated (or can elect) to
fund debt ( Retained Debt ) in excess of our pro rata
share of the debt of our Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates.
In general, we elect to have retained debt in exchange for a
reduced capital contribution by us when properties are acquired
subject to existing financing.

F-22

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

We are obligated to fund all amounts related to Retained Debt,
including any shortfalls in subsequent sales or refinancing
proceeds to the extent of such Retained Debt. Such Retained Debt
totaled $302.7 million as of December 31, 2005 and
$148.7 million as of December 31, 2004, and has been
reflected as a reduction in our investment in Unconsolidated
Real Estate Affiliates.

The significant accounting policies used by the Unconsolidated
Real Estate Affiliates are the same as ours.

New York State Common Retirement Fund ( NYSCRF ), our
partner in GGP/ Homart, Inc. ( GGP/ Homart ), has an
exchange right which permits it to convert its ownership
interest in GGP/ Homart to shares of General Growth common
stock. If this exchange right is exercised, we may alternatively
satisfy it in cash.

During certain periods in 2006 or 2009, our partner in GGP
Ivanhoe IV, Inc. has the right to require us to purchase
all of its GGP Ivanhoe IV, Inc. common stock for a purchase
price equal to the fair value of such stock. We can, at our
election, satisfy this obligation in any combination of cash or
General Growth common stock.

Condensed Combined Financial Information of Unconsolidated
    Real Estate Affiliates   

Following is summarized financial information for our
Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates as of December 31,
2005 and 2004 and for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003.

F-23

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

F-24

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Condensed Financial Information of Individually
Significant Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates  

The following is summarized financial information for certain
individually significant Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates
as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.

We own 50% of the common stock of GGP/ Homart Inc. ( GGP/
Homart ), a REIT. The remaining 50% interest in GGP/ Homart
is owned by NYSCRF. GGP/Homart owns 23 retail properties. We own
50% of the membership interest of GGP/ Homart II L.L.C.
( GGP/ Homart II ), a limited liability company.
The remaining 50% interest in GGP/ Homart II is owned by NYSCRF.
GGP/Homart II owns 12 retail properties. In addition, we own 50%
of the membership interest in
 GGP-TRS,  L.L.C.
( GGP/ Teachers ), a limited liability company. The
remaining 50% interest in GGP/ Teachers is owned by the
Teachers  Retirement System of the State of Illinois. GGP/
Teachers owns six retail properties. Our investment in such
affiliates varies from a strict 50% ownership due to capital or
basis differences on loans and related amortization.

F-25

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

F-26

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

F-27

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

F-28

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

F-29

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

F-30

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Note 6     Mortgage Notes and
Other Property Debt Payable 

Mortgage notes and other property debt payable are summarized as
follows:

As of December 31, 2005, approximately $20.1 billion
of land, buildings and equipment and investment land and land
held for development and sale (before accumulated depreciation)
have been pledged as collateral for our mortgage notes and other
debt payable. Certain properties, including those within the
portfolios collateralized by commercial mortgage-backed
securities, are subject to financial performance covenants,
primarily debt service coverage ratios.

Our mortgage notes and other debt payable have various
maturities through 2095. The weighted-average remaining term of
our mortgage notes and other property debt payable was
4.2 years as of December 31, 2005.

Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities  

In December 2001, the Operating Partnership and certain
Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates completed the placement of
non-recourse commercial mortgage pass-through certificates (the
 GGP MPTC ). The principal amount of the GGP MPTC is
attributed to the Operating Partnership, GGP/Homart,
GGP/Homart II and GGP Ivanhoe III. In addition, in
November 1997 (refinanced in November 2004), the Operating
Partnership and GGP Ivanhoe I completed the placement of
non-recourse commercial mortgage backed securities (the
 CMBS 13 ).

The commercial mortgage-backed securities have cross-default
provisions and are cross-collateralized. Under certain
cross-default provisions, a default under any mortgage note
included in a cross-defaulted package may constitute a default
under all such mortgage notes in the package and may lead to
acceleration of the indebtedness due on each property within the
collateral package. In general, the cross-defaulted properties
are

F-31

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

under common ownership, however, certain unconsolidated debt is
cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized by consolidated debt as
follows:

As of December 31, 2005, the weighted-average interest rate
on the fixed-rate commercial mortgage-backed securities was
5.38% (range of 4.15% to 6.71%). The weighted-average interest
rate on variable-rate commercial mortgage-backed securities,
excluding the impact of interest rate swaps, was 5.29% (range of
LIBOR (4.39% at December 31, 2005) plus 80 to 92 basis
points).

Other Collateralized Mortgage Notes and Other Property
Debt Payable  

Collateralized mortgage notes and other property debt payable
consist primarily of non-recourse notes collateralized by
individual properties and equipment. Substantially all of the
mortgage notes are non-recourse to us. Certain mortgage notes
payable may be prepaid but are generally subject to a prepayment
penalty equal to a yield-maintenance premium or a percentage of
the loan balance.

The fixed-rate collateralized mortgage notes and other debt
payable bear interest ranging, excluding the impact of interest
rate swaps, from 3.13% to 11.27%. The variable-rate
collateralized mortgage notes and other debt payable bear
interest at LIBOR plus 75 to 213 basis points.

2004 Credit Facility  

We entered into a credit agreement on November 12, 2004 to
fund the cash portion of the TRC Merger consideration and, with
other cash and financing sources, fund other costs of the merger
transaction. The terms of the notes that comprised the 2004
Credit Facility are as follows:

The rate on the four-year term loan was reduced by 25 basis
points in June 2005 and the rates on the revolving credit
facility and three-year term loan were reduced by 50 basis
points in September 2005. The weighted-average interest rate on
the 2004 Credit Facility, which was refinanced in February 2006
as described below, was LIBOR plus 184 basis points at
December 31, 2005.

In February 2006, we entered into several debt agreements. The
proceeds of these transactions were used to reduce the amounts
outstanding under the 2004 Credit Facility.

On February 24, 2006, we restated the 2004 Credit Facility
and entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
(the  2006 Credit Facility ). The 2006 Credit Facility
provides for a $2.85 billion term loan (the  Term
Loan ) and a $650 million revolving credit facility.

F-32

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

The 2006 Credit Facility has a four year term, with a one year
extension option. The interest rate ranges from LIBOR plus 1.15%
to LIBOR plus 1.5%, depending on our leverage ratio and assuming
we maintain our election to have these loans designated as
Eurodollar loans. The current interest rate is LIBOR plus 1.25%.
Quarterly principal payments of $12.5 million on the Term
Loan begin March 31, 2007, with the balance due at maturity.

Under the terms of the 2006 Credit Facility, we are subject to
customary affirmative and negative covenants as we were under
the 2004 Credit Facility. If a default occurs, the lenders will
have the option of declaring all outstanding amounts immediately
due and payable. These events of default include a failure to
maintain our REIT status under the Internal Revenue Code, a
failure to remain listed on the New York Stock Exchange and such
customary events as nonpayment of principal, interest, fees or
other amounts, breach of representations and warranties, breach
of covenant, cross-default to other indebtedness and certain
bankruptcy events.

Concurrently with the 2006 Credit Facility, we also entered into
a $1.4 billion term loan (the  Short Term Loan ),
TRCLP entered into a $500 million term loan (the
 Bridge Loan ) and we issued $200 million of
trust preferred securities through GGP Capital Trust I. All
of these arrangements are subject to customary affirmative and
negative covenants and events of default.

The interest rate on the Short Term Loan is the same as on the
2006 Credit Facility (currently LIBOR plus 1.25%). An
$800 million principal payment is due under the Short Term
Loan on August 14, 2006, with the balance due on
December 31, 2006. We are required to apply the net
proceeds of the refinancing of Ala Moana Center toward
prepayment of the Short Term Loan.

The Bridge Loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.3% until
May 24, 2006, and at LIBOR plus 1.55% thereafter, (assuming
we maintain our election to have the loan designated as a
Eurodollar loan) and is due August 24, 2006. We intend to
repay the Bridge Loan with proceeds obtained from the sale of
bonds issued by TRCLP.

As mentioned above, GGP Capital Trust I, a Delaware
statutory trust (the  Trust ) and a wholly owned
subsidiary of GGPLP, completed a private placement of
$200 million of floating rate Preferred Securities. The
Trust also issued $6.2 million of Common Securities to
GGPLP. The Trust used the proceeds from the sale of the
Preferred and Common Securities to purchase $206.2 million
of floating rate Junior Subordinated Notes of GGPLP due 2036.
The Preferred Securities require distributions equal to LIBOR
plus 1.45%. Distributions are cumulative and accrue from the
date of original issuance. The Preferred Securities mature on
April 30, 2036, but may be redeemed beginning on
April 30, 2011 if we exercise our right to redeem a like
amount of the Junior Subordinated Notes. The Junior Subordinated
Notes bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.45%.

Unsecured Term Loans   

In conjunction with the TRC Merger, we assumed certain
publicly-traded unsecured debt. This debt totaled
$1.5 billion at December 31, 2005 and
$1.6 billion at December 31, 2004, bears interest at
fixed rates ranging from 3.63% to 8.00% and matures at various
dates from 2009 to 2013.

In conjunction with our acquisition of JP Realty in 2002, we
assumed $100 million of ten-year senior unsecured notes
which bear interest at a fixed rate of 7.29% and were issued by
PDC in March 1998. The notes require semi-annual interest
payments. Annual principal payments of $25 million began in
March 2005 and continue until the loan is fully repaid in March
2008.

F-33

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Interest Rate Swaps   

To achieve a more desirable balance between fixed and
variable-rate debt, we have also entered into certain swap
agreements as follows:

Such swap agreements have been designated as cash flow hedges
and are intended to hedge our exposure to future interest
payments on the related variable-rate debt.

Letters of Credit and Surety Bonds   

We had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds of
approximately $210 million as of December 31, 2005.
These letters of credit and bonds were issued primarily in
connection with insurance requirements, special real estate
assessments and construction obligations.

Note 7     Income Taxes 

We elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856-860 of the
Internal Revenue Code, commencing with our taxable year
beginning January 1, 1993. To be taxed as a REIT, we must
meet a number of organizational and operational requirements,
including requirements to distribute at least 90% of our
ordinary taxable income and to distribute to stockholders or pay
tax on 100% of capital gains and to meet certain asset and
income tests. It is management s current intention to
adhere to these requirements.

As a REIT, we will generally not be subject to corporate level
Federal income tax on taxable income we distribute currently to
our stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable
year, we will be subject to Federal income taxes at regular
corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum
tax) and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for four
subsequent taxable years. Even if we qualify for taxation as a
REIT, we may be subject to certain state and local taxes on our
income or property, and to federal income and excise taxes on
our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we are subject to
rules which may impose corporate income tax on certain built-in
gains recognized upon the disposition of assets owned by our
subsidiaries where such subsidiaries (or other predecessors) had
formerly been C corporations. These rules apply only where the
disposition occurs within certain specified recognition periods.
Specifically, in the case of the TRC assets, we may be subject
to tax on built-in gain recognized upon the disposition prior to
January 1, 2008 of assets owned by TRC on January 1,
1998, the effective date of TRC s REIT election. At
December 31, 2005, the total amount of built-in gains with
respect to our assets is substantial. However, to the extent
that any such properties are to be sold, we intend to utilize
tax strategies such as dispositions through like-kind exchanges
and the use of net operating loss carryforwards to limit or
offset the amount of such gains and therefore the amount of tax
paid.

We also have subsidiaries which we have elected to be treated as
taxable real estate investment trust subsidiaries (a
 TRS  or  TRS entities ) and which are,
therefore, subject to federal and state income taxes. Our
primary TRS entities include GGMI, entities which own our master
planned community properties and other TRS entities acquired in
the TRC Merger. Current federal income taxes of certain of these
TRS entities are likely to increase in future years as we
exhaust the net loss carry-forwards of these entities and as
certain master planned community developments are completed.
Such increases could be significant.

F-34

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

The income tax provision (benefit) for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 primarily related to the TRS
entities acquired in the TRC Merger.

Income tax expense computed by applying the federal corporate
tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 is
reconciled to the provision for income taxes as follows:

The income tax provision was insignificant in 2003.

As part of the TRC merger, we acquired a controlling interest in
an entity whose assets included a deferred tax asset of
approximately $140 million related to $464.5 million
of temporary differences (primarily interest deduction
carryforwards with no expiration date).

Realization of a deferred tax asset is dependent upon generating
sufficient taxable income in future periods. Our net operating
loss carryforwards are currently scheduled to expire in
subsequent years through 2025. Some of the net operating loss
carryforward amounts are subject to annual limitations under
Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. This annual
limitation under Section 382 is subject to modification if
a taxpayer recognizes what are called  built-in gain
items.  For 2004, the benefit of the entire amount of the
net operating loss was recorded and a reserve was established to
reflect the limitations caused by Section 382. For 2005,
the presentation has changed, but the net amount has remained
the same. For 2005, the benefit amount has been reduced to
reflect the sum of the annual Section 382 limitations. The
valuation amount has likewise been reduced, thereby maintaining
the same net deferred tax benefit amount for the net operating
loss carryforwards.

F-35

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Each TRS is a tax paying component for purposes of classifying
deferred tax assets and liabilities. Net deferred tax assets
(liabilities) are summarized as follows:

Due to the uncertainty of the realization of certain tax
carryforwards, we established valuation allowances. The majority
of the valuation allowances related to net operating loss
carryforwards where there was uncertainty regarding their
realizability or limitations under Internal Revenue Code
Section 382.

The tax effects of temporary differences and carryforwards
included in the net deferred tax assets (liabilities) at
December 31, 2005 and 2004 are summarized as follows:

Several of our subsidiaries or partnerships in which we have an
interest are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue
Service. Although we believe our tax returns are correct, the
final determination of tax audits and any related litigation
could be different than that which was reported on the returns.
In the opinion of management, we have made adequate tax
provisions for years subject to examination.

Earnings and profits, which determine the taxability of
dividends to stockholders, differ from net income reported for
financial reporting purposes due to differences for federal
income tax reporting purposes in, among other things, estimated
useful lives, depreciable basis of properties and permanent and
temporary differences on the inclusion of deductibility of
elements of income and deductibility of expense for such
purposes.

Distributions paid on our common and preferred stock and their
tax status are presented in the following table. The tax status
of General Growth distributions in 2005, 2004 and 2003 may not
be indicative of future periods.

F-36

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

The portion of distributions shown below as unrecaptured
Section 1250 capital gains are designated as capital gain
distributions for tax purposes.

*All outstanding preferred shares of General Growth were
redeemed in 2003.

Note 8     Rentals Under
Operating Leases 

We receive rental income from the leasing of retail and other
space under operating leases. The minimum future rentals based
on operating leases of our Consolidated Properties held as of
December 31, 2005 are as follows:

Minimum future rentals exclude amounts which are payable by
certain tenants based upon a percentage of their gross sales or
as reimbursement of operating expenses and amortization of above
and below-market tenant leases.

Such operating leases are with a variety of tenants, the
majority of which are national and regional retail chains and
local retailers, and consequently, our credit risk is
concentrated in the retail industry.

Note 9  
     
     Transactions with Affiliates  

Property Management and Other Fees   

GGMI and other TRS entities recognized fees from the
Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates of $87.5 million in
2005, $61.8 million in 2004 and $63.0 million in 2003.

F-37

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Notes Receivable   Officers   

Notes receivable   officers were fully repaid at
December 31, 2005 and at December 31, 2004 were as
follows:

Between 1998 and April 30, 2002, some of our officers
issued $25.0 million of promissory notes to us. The notes
were issued in connection with the officers  exercises of
options to purchase 2,703,000 shares of our common stock.
The notes bore interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus 50 basis
points, were full recourse to the officers, were collateralized
by the shares of our common stock issued upon exercise of such
options, provided for quarterly payments of interest and were
payable to us on demand.

As of April 30, 2002, our Board of Directors terminated the
availability of such loans to officers. In conjunction with this
decision, the terms of the promissory notes, including
approximately $2.8 million related to income tax
withholding payments which we had made on behalf of the
officers, were restructured. As of April 30, 2002, each
officer repaid at least 60% of the principal and 100% of the
interest due under such officer s note and the remaining
amounts, approximately $10.1 million, were represented by
amended and restated promissory notes. These amended and
restated, full recourse notes were payable in monthly
installments of principal and interest (at a market rate which
varied monthly computed at LIBOR plus 125 basis points) and
were scheduled to be fully repaid in May 2009 (or within
90 days of the officer s separation from the Company,
if earlier). In 2005, voluntary repayments of $.6 million
were received in December, $.5 million in September and
$4.2 million in February and, therefore, all amounts have
been repaid as of December 31, 2005.

Other   

In May and June 2005, we purchased the interests in two
airplanes from a company whose sole shareholder is one of our
directors. The purchase was approved by our Board of Directors.
The purchase price was $2.8 million and was based on an
independent third party fair market valuation from Net Jets,
Inc. As a result of the purchase, we will no longer incur or pay
aircraft expenses to this company.

Note 10  
     
     Employee Benefit and Stock Plans  

Incentive Stock Plans   

We grant stock options and restricted stock to attract and
retain officers and key employees through the 2003 Incentive
Stock Plan and, prior to April 2003, the 1993 Stock Incentive
Plan. Stock options are granted by the Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors at an exercise price of not less than
100% of the fair market value of our common stock on the date of
the grant. The terms of the options are fixed by the
Compensation Committee. Options granted to officers and key
employees under the 2003 Incentive Stock Plan are for
 5-year  terms and under
the 1993 Incentive Stock Plan are for
 10-year  terms. Stock
options are generally exercisable in either
33  1  / 3
 % or 20% annual increments beginning on the date of the
grants. Options granted to non-employee directors are
exercisable in full commencing on the date of grant and are
scheduled to expire on the fifth anniversary of the date of the
grant. The 2003 Incentive Stock Plan provides for the issuance
of up to 9.0 million shares of our common stock.

F-38

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

A summary of the status of options granted under the 2003 and
1993 Stock Incentive Plans is presented below.

The following table summarizes information about stock options
outstanding pursuant to the 2003 and 1993 Stock Incentive Plans
as of December 31, 2005:

Threshold-Vesting Stock Options   

Under the 1998 Incentive Stock Plan (the  1998 Incentive
Plan ), we may also grant stock incentive awards to
employees in the form of threshold-vesting stock options
( TSOs ). The exercise price of the TSO is the Fair
Market Value ( FMV ) of a share of our common stock on
the date the TSO is granted. The threshold price (the
 Threshold Price ) which must be achieved for the TSO
to vest is determined by multiplying the FMV on the date of
grant by the Estimated Annual Growth Rate (currently 7%) and
compounding the product over a five-year period. Shares of our
common stock must achieve and sustain the Threshold Price for at
least 20 consecutive trading days at any time over the five
years following the date of grant for the TSO to vest. TSOs
granted in 2004 and thereafter must be exercised within
30 days of the vesting date. TSOs granted prior to 2004,
all of which have vested, have a term of up to 10 years. As
of December 31, 2005, 5,562,235 shares were available for
future grants, subject to certain customary adjustments to
prevent dilution.

F-39

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

The following is a summary of the options under the 1998
Incentive Plan that have been awarded as of December 31,
2005:

The fair values of all stock options and of TSOs granted in 2003
were estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option pricing model. The fair values of TSOs granted in 2005
and 2004 were estimated using the binomial method. The following
assumptions were used in determining these values:

Compensation expense related to incentive stock plans and TSOs
totaled $11.1 million in 2005, $6.5 million in 2004
and $17.4 million in 2003.

Restricted Stock  

Restricted stock grants to certain officers pursuant to the 2003
and 1993 Stock Incentive Plans were as follows:

(1) Stock vested immediately

As this restricted stock represents an incentive for future
periods, we are recognizing the related compensation expense
ratably over the applicable vesting periods.

F-40

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Employee Stock Purchase Plan  

The General Growth Properties, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan
(the  ESPP ) was established to assist eligible
employees in acquiring stock ownership interest in General
Growth. Under the ESPP, eligible employees make payroll
deductions over a six-month purchase period. At the end of the
six-month purchase period, the amounts withheld are used to
purchase shares of our common stock at a purchase price equal to
85% of the lesser of the closing price of a share of our common
stock on the first or last trading day of the purchase period. A
maximum of 1.5 million shares of our common stock are
reserved for issuance under the ESPP. Since the inception of the
ESPP, an aggregate of 1,215,661 shares of our common stock have
been sold under the ESPP, including 65,395 shares for the
purchase period ending December 31, 2005 which were
purchased at a price of $35.54 per share.

Management Savings Plan   

We sponsor the General Growth Management Savings and Employee
Stock Ownership Plan (the  401(k) Plan ) which permits
all eligible employees to defer a portion of their compensation
in accordance with the provisions of Section 401(k) of the
Internal Revenue Code. Subject to certain limitations (including
an annual limit imposed by the Internal Revenue Code), each
participant is allowed to make before-tax contributions up to
50% of gross earnings, as defined. We add to a
participant s account through a matching contribution up to
5% of the participant s annual earnings contributed to the
401(k) Plan. We match 100% of the first 4% of earnings
contributed by each participant and 50% of the next 2% of
earnings contributed by each participant. We made matching
contributions of approximately $7.5 million in 2005,
$5.3 million in 2004, and $4.4 million in 2003.

TRC Plan   

As a result of the TRC Merger, we assumed a retiree benefits
plan that provides postretirement medical and life insurance
benefits to former TRC employees who met minimum age and service
requirements. We pay a portion of the cost of participants 
life insurance coverage and make contributions to the cost of
participants  medical coverage based on years of service,
subject to a maximum annual contribution. Amounts related to
this plan, which was terminated as of December 31, 2005, as
to all unvested participants were not material as of or for the
period ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.

F-41

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Note 11  
     
     Other Assets & Liabilities  

The following table summarizes the significant components of
 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets. 

The following table summarizes the significant components of
 Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses. 

F-42

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Note 12  
     
     Minority Interests  

Common   

Changes in outstanding Operating Partnership Common Units for
the three years ended December 31, 2005 are as follows:

Under certain circumstances, the Common Units can be redeemed at
the option of the holders for cash or, at our election, for
shares of General Growth common stock on a one-for-one basis.
The holders of the Common Units also share equally with our
common stockholders on a per share basis in any distributions by
the Operating Partnership on the basis that one Common Unit is
equivalent to one share of General Growth common stock.

Also included in minority interests-common is minority interest
in consolidated joint ventures of approximately
$13.6 million as of December 31, 2005 and
$66.6 million as of December 31, 2004.

F-43

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Preferred   

Components of minority interest   preferred as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:

(1)  
     
    Includes $175 million which was redeemed in May 2005 as
    permitted under the terms of the applicable RPUs. 

Holders of the RPUs and CPUs are entitled to receive cumulative
preferential cash distributions prior to any distributions by
the LLC to the Operating Partnership. Subject to certain
limitations, the RPUs may be redeemed in cash by the LLC in
April 2007 for the liquidation preference amount plus
accrued and unpaid distributions and may be exchanged by the
holders of the RPUs for an equivalent amount of redeemable
preferred stock of General Growth. Such preferred stock provides
for an equivalent 8.95% annual preferred distribution and is
redeemable at our option for cash equal to the liquidation
preference amount plus accrued and unpaid distributions.

The Convertible Preferred Units are convertible, with certain
restrictions, at any time by the holder into Common Units of the
Operating Partnership at the following rates:

F-44

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Note 13     Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income (Loss) 

Components of accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:

Note 14     Commitments and
Contingencies 

In the normal course of business, from time to time, we are
involved in legal actions relating to the ownership and
operations of our properties. In management s opinion, the
liabilities, if any, that may ultimately result from such legal
actions are not expected to have a material adverse effect on
our consolidated financial position, results of operations or
liquidity.

We lease land or buildings at certain properties from third
parties. The leases generally provide us with a right of first
refusal in the event of a proposed sale of the property by the
landlord. All of our ground leases are classified as operating
leases. Accordingly, rental payments are expensed as incurred
and have, to the extent applicable, been straight-lined over the
term of the lease. Rental expense, including participation rent
and excluding amortization of above and below-market ground
leases, was $10.5 million in 2005, $3.6 million in
2004 and $2.5 million in 2003.

We periodically enter into contingent agreements for the
acquisition of properties. Each acquisition is subject to
satisfactory completion of due diligence and, in the case of
property acquired under development, completion of the project.

TRC acquired various assets, including Summerlin, a master
planned community in suburban Las Vegas, Nevada, in the
acquisition of The Hughes Corporation ( Hughes ) in
1996. In connection with the acquisition of Hughes, TRC entered
into a Contingent Stock Agreement ( CSA ) for the
benefit of the former Hughes owners or their successors
( beneficiaries ). Under the terms of the CSA, shares
of TRC common stock are issuable to the beneficiaries based on
the appraised values of defined asset groups, including
Summerlin, at specified termination dates through 2009 and/or
cash flows from the development and/or sale of those assets
prior to the termination dates.

We assumed TRC s obligation under the CSA to deliver shares
of General Growth common stock twice a year to beneficiaries
under the CSA and certain indemnification obligations. The
amount of shares is based upon a formula set forth in the CSA
and upon our stock price. Such issuances could be dilutive to
our existing stockholders if the delivery obligation is
satisfied by the issuance of shares, new or treasury, rather
than from shares purchased on the open market. We account for
the beneficiaries  share of earnings from the assets as an
operating expense. We will account for any distributions to the
beneficiaries in 2009, which are likely to be significant, in
connection with a valuation related to assets that we own as of
such termination date as additional investments in the related
assets (that is, contingent consideration). A total of
1,552,385 shares of our common stock were issued in 2005
pursuant to the CSA. At December 31, 2005,
755,642 shares of common stock were issuable to the
beneficiaries, representing their share of cash flows for the
semi-annual period ending December 31, 2005.

F-45

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Two of our operating retail properties (Oakwood Center in
Gretna, Louisiana and Riverwalk, located near the convention
center in downtown New Orleans) were closed in September 2005,
when a hurricane struck the area. Although property damage in
the New Orleans area was generally due to hurricane effects, the
damage to Oakwood Center and Riverwalk was from arson and
vandalism. Riverwalk partially re-opened on November 21,
2005 at a substantially reduced occupancy level. The Sears store
at Oakwood Center is operating at a reduced level. Two other
anchor stores at Oakwood Center are expected to re-open in 2006
and following repair and restoration, the remainder of the
property is expected to open on or before Fall 2007. We have
comprehensive insurance coverage for both property damage and
business interruption. The restoration effort at the properties
is expected to include replacing portions of the building,
landscaping and furnishings. The net book value of the property
damage is currently estimated to be approximately
$53 million; however, we are still assessing the damage
estimates and the actual net book value write-off could vary
from this estimate. Changes to these estimates will be recorded
in the periods in which they are determined. As of
December 31, 2005, we have recorded a net fixed asset
write-off and a corresponding insurance claim recovery
receivable for this net book value amount because we believe
that it is probable that the insurance recovery, net of
deductibles on a replacement cost basis, will exceed these
amounts. While we expect the insurance proceeds will be
sufficient to cover most of the replacement cost of the
restoration of the properties and certain business interruption
amounts, certain deductibles, limitations and exclusions are
expected to apply with respect to both current and future
matters. No determination has been made as to the total amount
or timing of those insurance payments. As of December 31,
2005, $5 million in insurance proceeds related to the
Oakwood property has been received, which has been offset
against this insurance recovery receivable. In January 2006, we
received an additional $5 million in insurance proceeds
with respect to Oakwood and $2.5 million in insurance
proceeds related to Riverwalk. As only a portion of the repairs
have taken place as of December 31, 2005, substantially all
of the remaining $63.4 million receivable recorded
represents the recovery of the net book value of fixed assets
written off. The cost recoveries have been recorded on the
expense line item to which they relate, and therefore there is
no significant impact to any line item or our overall results.
However, included in property operating expenses in 2005 are
approximately $1 million of costs which, when fully
expended, are not expected to be recoverable from insurance
proceeds due to insurance policy deductibles.

The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of our
long-term and retained debt and commitments under ground leases
as of December 31, 2005. Both long-term debt and ground
leases include the related purchase accounting fair value
adjustments:

Note 15     Recently Issued
Accounting Pronouncements 

In October 2005, the FASB Issued Staff Position No. FAS
13-1,  Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred during a
Construction Period  ( FSP 13-1 ). This FSP
requires that rental costs associated with ground or building
operating leases incurred during a construction period be
recognized as rental expense. However, FSP 13-1 does not address
lessees that account for the sale or rental of real estate
projects under FASB Statement No. 67,  Accounting for
Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate
Projects.  As we generally own rather than lease property
upon which we construct new real estate ventures and our policy
would be to capitalize rental costs associated with ground
leases incurred during construction periods under Statement
No. 67, FSP 13-1 will not have a material effect on our
results of operations when it becomes effective in 2006.

F-46

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

In June 2005, the Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF )
reached a consensus on EITF 04-05,  Investor s
Accounting for an Investment in a Limited Partnership When the
Investor Is the Sole General Partner and the Limited Partners
Have Certain Rights  ( EITF 04-05 ) which
provides guidance on when a sole general partner should
consolidate a limited partnership. A sole general partner in a
limited partnership is presumed to control that limited
partnership and therefore should include the limited partnership
in its consolidated financial statements, regardless of the sole
general partner s ownership interest in the limited
partnership. The control presumption may be overcome if the
limited partners have the ability to remove the sole general
partner or otherwise dissolve the limited partnership. Other
substantive participating rights by the limited partners may
also overcome the control presumption. This consensus is
effective for general partners of all newly formed limited
partnerships and existing limited partnerships for which the
partnership agreements are modified. For general partners in all
other limited partnerships, this consensus is effective no later
than the beginning of the first reporting period in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect EITF
04-05 to have a significant impact on our financial statements.

In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ( SFAS ) No. 154,  Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections   A Replacement of APB
Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 
( SFAS 154 ). Among other changes, SFAS 154
requires that a voluntary change in accounting principle be
applied retrospectively with all prior period financial
statements presented on the new accounting principle, unless it
is impracticable to do so. SFAS 154 also provides that:

A change in method of depreciating or amortizing a long-lived
    nonfinancial asset be accounted for as a change in estimate
    (prospectively) that was effected by a change in accounting
    principle, and 

Correction of errors in previously issued financial statements
    should be termed a  restatement.  

SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and correction
of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2005. Early adoption of this standard is permitted for
accounting changes and correction of errors made in fiscal years
beginning after June 1, 2005.

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47
( FIN 47 )  Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of
SFAS No. 143  which clarifies that a liability
for the performance of an asset retirement activity should be
recorded if the obligation to perform such activity is
unconditional, whether or not the timing or method of settlement
may be conditional on a future event. FIN 47 is effective
no later than the end of fiscal years ending after
December 15, 2005, and therefore, is applicable to our
December 31, 2005 consolidated financial statements. Under
previous guidance, it was generally accepted that if the
enterprise had no current plans or present obligation to perform
such asset retirement activity, the liability could not
reasonably be estimated and only a disclosure obligation, if
material, was present. Although we may have an ultimate legal
obligation to remediate any asbestos contained in any of our
investment properties, either in the course of future
remodeling, demolition or tenant construction, or as a
transferred liability to a buyer, we do not believe that the
current estimation of that liability, and the related asset and
cumulative catch-up of any accretion or depreciation, is
material to our consolidated financial statements. The time
period for any of this work is indeterminate as we are not
obligated to perform any amount of such work that is material to
our consolidated financial statements in conjunction with any
current renovation or construction project. Accordingly, amounts
recorded relating to FIN 47 are not material to our
consolidated financial statements.

On February 7, 2005, the SEC staff published certain views
concerning the accounting by lessees for leasehold improvements,
rent holidays, lessor funding of lessee expenditures and other
tenant inducements. Although the application of these views to
lessors was not specified by the SEC and a formal accounting
standard modifying existing practice on these items has not been
issued or proposed, we have conducted a review of our accounting
relative to such items. We believe that our leasing practices
and agreements with a majority of our tenants provide that
leasehold improvements that we fund represent fixed assets that
we own and control. We

F-47

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

also believe that leases with such arrangements are properly
accounted for as commencing at the completion of construction of
such assets. A smaller percentage of our tenant leases do not
provide for landlord funding but rather provide for tenant
funded construction and furnishing of the leased premises prior
to the formal commencement of the lease. We have concluded that
the cumulative incremental straight-line rental revenue that
would have been recognized on such leases if they had commenced
on tenant possession of such space rather than the
lease-specified commencement date to be approximately
$10.1 million at December 31, 2004 which was
recognized in the three months ended March 31, 2005. The
recognition of straight-line rental revenue on this accelerated
basis will have no effect on periodic or cumulative cash flows
to be received pursuant to a tenant lease.

On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 153,  Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets-An
Amendment of APB Opinion No. 29 
( SFAS 153 ). The amendments made by
SFAS 153 are based on the principle that exchanges of
nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of
the assets exchanged. Further, the amendments eliminate the
narrow exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive
assets and replace it with a broader exception for exchanges of
nonmonetary assets that do not have  commercial
substance.  SFAS 153 is effective for nonmonetary
asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after
June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 153 on
June 15, 2005 did not have a material effect on our
consolidated financial statements.

On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004),  Share-Based
Payment  ( SFAS 123R ). SFAS 123R
replaces SFAS 123, which we adopted in the second quarter
of 2002. SFAS 123R requires that compensation cost relating
to share-based payment transactions be recognized in financial
statements and measured based on the fair value of the equity or
liability instruments used. SFAS 123R, as provided by SEC
regulation, is not required to be adopted until the first
interim or annual reporting period that begins after
December 15, 2005. Although we are still evaluating the
provisions of SFAS 123R, we do not expect its adoption to
have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.

In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150,
 Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity, 
( SFAS 150 ) which establishes standards for how
an issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments
with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. It requires
that an issuer classify a financial instrument that is within
its scope as a liability. The effective date of a portion of
SFAS 150 has been indefinitely postponed by the FASB. We
did not enter into new financial instruments subsequent to May
2003 which would fall within the scope of this statement. None
of our transactions, arrangements or financial instruments,
except for certain ventures acquired in the TRC Merger, have
been identified that appear to meet the criteria for liability
recognition in accordance with paragraphs 9 and 10 under
SFAS 150 due to the indefinite life of the joint venture
arrangements. Therefore, if the effectiveness of the measurement
and classification provisions is no longer postponed, we would
reclassify to liabilities approximately $15 million of
minority interest with respect to such TRC Merger acquired
ventures, but no amount for any of our other ventures.

Note 16     Segments 

We have two business segments which offer different products and
services. Our segments are managed separately because each
requires different operating strategies or management expertise.
We do not distinguish or group our consolidated operations on a
geographic basis. Further, all material operations are within
the United States and no customer or tenant comprises more than
10% of consolidated revenues. Our reportable segments are as
follows:

Retail and Other    includes the operation,
    development and management of regional shopping centers, office
    and industrial properties, downtown specialty marketplaces, the
    retail and non-retail rental components of mixed-use projects
    and community retail centers 

F-48

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Master Planned Communities    includes the
    development and sale of land, primarily in large-scale,
    long-term community development projects in and around Columbia,
    Maryland; Summerlin, Nevada; and Houston, Texas 

Prior to the TRC Merger, substantially all of our business
involved ownership and operation of shopping centers. As we
evaluated operating results and resource allocation on a
property-by-property basis, we had concluded that we had a
single reportable segment.

The operating measure used to assess operating results for the
business segments is Real Estate Property Net Operating Income
( NOI ). Management believes that NOI provides useful
information about a property s operating performance.

The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those
described in Note 2, except that we account for
unconsolidated real estate ventures using the proportionate
share method rather than the equity method. Under the
proportionate share method, our share of the revenues and
expenses of the Unconsolidated Properties are combined with the
revenues and expenses of the Consolidated Properties. Under the
equity method, our share of the net revenues and expenses of the
Unconsolidated Properties are reported as a single line item,
 Equity in income of unconsolidated affiliates,  in
our Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income.

Segment operating results are as follows:

F-49

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

F-50

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

The following reconciles NOI to GAAP-basis operating income and
income from continuing operations:

F-51

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

The following reconciles segment revenues to GAAP-basis
consolidated revenues

The assets by segment and the reconciliation of total segment
assets to the total assets in the consolidated financial
statements at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are summarized as
follows:

F-52

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

Note 17     Quarterly Financial
Information (Unaudited) 

(a)  
     
    Earnings (loss) per share for the quarters do not add up to
    the annual earnings per share due to the issuance of additional
    common stock during the year. 

(b)  
     
    Amounts reported herein differ from previously reported amounts
    as a result of reclassification of results of operations of sold
    properties to discontinued operations. Total revenues also
    reflect changes to conform to current period presentation. 

F-53

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(Continued) 

(a)  
     
    Earnings (loss) per share for the quarters do not add up to
    the annual earnings per share due to the issuance of additional
    common stock during the year. 

(b)  
     
    Amounts reported herein differ from previously reported amounts
    as a result of reclassification of results of operations of sold
    properties to discontinued operations. Total revenues also
    reflect changes to conform to current period presentation. 

F-54

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

General Growth Properties, Inc.

Chicago, Illinois

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of General
Growth Properties, Inc. and subsidiaries (the
 Company ) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and
for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2005, management s assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, and the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, and have
issued our reports thereon dated March 31, 2006 (which
report expresses an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting because
of material weaknesses); such consolidated financial statements
and reports are included elsewhere in this
Form  10-K.  Our
audits also included the consolidated financial statement
schedule of the Company listed in the Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements and Consolidated Financial Statement
Schedule on
page  F-1  of this
Form  10-K.  This
consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility
of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such
consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Chicago, Illinois

March 31, 2006

F-55

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

SCHEDULE III   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION 

DECEMBER 31, 2005 

F-56

Table of Contents   

F-57

Table of Contents   

F-58

Table of Contents   

F-59

Table of Contents   

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC. 

NOTES TO SCHEDULE III 

(Dollars in thousands) 

(a) 

See description of mortgage notes and other debt payable in
    Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(b) 

Initial cost for constructed malls is cost at end of first
    complete calendar year subsequent to opening. 

(c) 

Carrying costs consist of capitalized construction-period
    interest and taxes. 

(d) 

The aggregate cost of land, buildings and equipment for federal
    income tax purposes is approximately $15,704,085. 

Reconciliation of Real Estate 

Reconciliation of Accumulated Depreciation 

(e) 

Depreciation is computed based upon the following estimated
    lives: 

Years  

Buildings, improvements and carrying costs

40-45 

Equipment, tenant improvements and fixtures

5-10 

(f) 

Carrying costs reduced for hurricane property damage
    (Note 14) 

(g) 

Primarily dispositions in 2005 and 2004 and purchase of interest
    in GGP Ivanhoe III in 2003. 

(h) 

Decrease in Costs Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition is
    primarily attributable to land sales in these Master Planned
    Communities. 

F-60

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

3 
     .1 

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of General Growth
    Properties, Inc. filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
    February 10, 2006 (filed herewith). 

3 
     .2 

Bylaws of General Growth Properties, Inc., as amended (filed
    herewith). 

4 
     .1 

Form of Common Stock Certificate (filed herewith). 

4 
     .2 

Rights Agreement dated July 27, 1993, between General
    Growth Properties, Inc. and certain other parties named therein
    (filed herewith). 

4 
     .3 

Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of February 1, 2000,
    between General Growth Properties, Inc. and certain other
    parties named therein (previously filed as Exhibit 10.11 to
    the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 2003, incorporated herein by reference). 

4 
     .4 

Redemption Rights Agreement dated July 13, 1995, by and
    among GGP Limited Partnership (the  Operating
    Partnership ), General Growth Properties, Inc. and the
    persons listed on the signature pages thereof (filed herewith). 

4 
     .5 

Redemption Rights Agreement dated December 6, 1996, among
    the Operating Partnership, Forbes/ Cohen Properties, Lakeview
    Square Associates, and Jackson Properties (filed herewith). 

4 
     .6 

Redemption Rights Agreement dated June 19, 1997, among the
    Operating Partnership, General Growth Properties, Inc., and
    CA Southlake Investors, Ltd. (filed herewith). 

4 
     .7 

Redemption Rights Agreement dated October 23, 1997, among
    General Growth Properties, Inc., the Operating Partnership and
    Peter Leibowits (filed herewith). 

4 
     .8 

Redemption Rights Agreement dated April 2, 1998, among the
    Operating Partnership, General Growth Properties, Inc. and
    Southwest Properties Venture (filed herewith). 

4 
     .9 

Redemption Rights Agreement dated July 21, 1998, among the
    Operating Partnership, General Growth Properties, Inc., Nashland
    Associates, and HRE Altamonte, Inc. (filed herewith). 

4 
     .10 

Redemption Rights Agreement dated October 21, 1998, among
    the Operating Partnership, General Growth Properties, Inc. and
    the persons on the signature pages thereof (filed herewith). 

4 
     .11 

Redemption Rights Agreement (PDC Common Units) dated
    July 10, 2002, by and among the Operating Partnership,
    General Growth Properties, Inc. and the persons listed on the
    signature pages thereof (previously filed as Exhibit 10.6
    to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 10, 2002
    which was filed with the SEC on July 24, 2002, incorporated
    herein by reference). 

4 
     .12 

Redemption Rights Agreement (PDC Series B Preferred Units)
    dated July 10, 2002, by and among the Operating
    Partnership, General Growth Properties, Inc. and the persons
    listed on the signature pages thereof (previously filed as
    Exhibit 10.7 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated
    July 10, 2002 which was filed with the SEC on July 24,
    2002, incorporated herein by reference). 

4 
     .13 

Redemption Rights Agreement (Series C Preferred Units)
    dated November 27, 2002, by and among the Operating
    Partnership, General Growth Properties, Inc. and JSG, LLC
    (previously filed as Exhibit 10(LLL) to the Annual Report
    on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002
    which was filed with the SEC on March 14, 2003,
    incorporated herein by reference). 

4 
     .14 

Redemption Rights Agreement (PDC Common Units) dated
    November 27, 2002, by and among the Operating Partnership,
    General Growth Properties, Inc. and JSG, LLC (previously filed
    as Exhibit 10(MMM) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
    for the year ended December 31, 2002 which was filed with
    the SEC on March 14, 2003, incorporated herein by
    reference). 

4 
     .15 

Redemption Rights Agreement dated December 11, 2003, by and
    among the Operating Partnership, General Growth Properties, Inc.
    and Everitt Enterprises, Inc. (previously filed as
    Exhibit 10.44 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for
    the year ended December 31, 2003 which was filed with the
    SEC on March 12, 2004, incorporated herein by reference). 

4 
     .16 

Form of Registration Rights Agreement dated April 15, 1993,
    between General Growth Properties, Inc., Martin Bucksbaum,
    Matthew Bucksbaum and the other parties named therein (filed
    herewith). 

4 
     .17 

Amendment to Registration Rights Agreement dated
    February 1, 2000, among General Growth Properties, Inc. and
    certain other parties named therein (previously filed as
    Exhibit 10.16 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for
    the year ended December 31, 2003 which was filed with the
    SEC on March 12, 2004, incorporated herein by reference). 

S-1

Table of Contents   

4 
     .18 

Registration Rights Agreement dated April 17, 2002, between
    General Growth Properties, Inc. and GSEP 2002 Realty Corp.
    (previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report
    on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31,
    2002 which was filed with the SEC on May 13, 2002,
    incorporated herein by reference). 

4 
     .19 

Rights Agreement dated November 18, 1998, between General
    Growth Properties, Inc. and Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., as
    Rights Agent (including the Form of Certificate of Designation
    of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock attached
    thereto as Exhibit A, the Form of Right Certificate
    attached thereto as Exhibit B and the Summary of Rights to
    Purchase Preferred Shares attached thereto as Exhibit C)
    (filed herewith). 

4 
     .20 

First Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of
    November 10, 1999, between General Growth Properties, Inc.
    and Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. (filed herewith). 

4 
     .21 

Second Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of
    December 31, 2001, between General Growth Properties, Inc.
    and Mellon Investor Services, LLC, successor to Norwest Bank
    Minnesota, N.A. (previously filed as Exhibit 4.13 to the
    Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-82134) dated
    February 4, 2002 which was filed with the SEC on
    February 5, 2002, incorporated herein by reference). 

4 
     .22 

Letter Agreement concerning Rights Agreement dated
    November 10, 1999, between the Operating Partnership and
    NYSCRF (filed herewith). 

4 
     .23 

The Rouse Company and The First National Bank of Chicago
    (Trustee) Indenture dated as of February 24, 1995
    (previously filed as Exhibit 4.23 to the Annual Report on
    Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 which
    was filed with the SEC on March 22, 2005, incorporated
    herein by reference). 

4 
     .24 

Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of
    February 24, 2006 among General Growth Properties, Inc.,
    Operating Partnership and GGPLP L.L.C., as Borrowers; the
    several lenders from time to time parties thereto; Banc of
    America Securities LLC, Eurohypo AG, New York Branch
    ( Eurohypo ) and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as
    Arrangers; Eurohypo, as Administrative Agent; Bank of America,
    N.A., and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Syndication
    Agents; and Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc., as Documentation
    Agent (previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Current
    Report on Form 8-K dated February 24, 2006 which was
    filed with the SEC on March 2, 2006, incorporated herein by
    reference). 

10 
     .1 

Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of
    the Operating Partnership dated April 1, 1998 (the  LP
    Agreement ) (filed herewith). 

10 
     .2 

First Amendment to the LP Agreement dated as of June 10,
    1998 (previously filed as Exhibit 10(B) to the Annual
    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
    2002 which was filed with the SEC on March 14, 2003,
    incorporated herein by reference). 

10 
     .3 

Second Amendment to the LP Agreement dated as of June 29,
    1998 (previously filed as Exhibit 10(C) to the Annual
    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
    2002 which was filed with the SEC on March 14, 2003,
    incorporated herein by reference). 

10 
     .4 

Third Amendment to the LP Agreement dated as of
    February 15, 2002 (previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to
    the Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 10, 2002
    which was filed with the SEC on July 24, 2002, incorporated
    herein by reference). 

10 
     .5 

Amendment to the LP Agreement dated as of April 24, 2002
    (previously filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Current Report on
    Form 8-K dated July 10, 2002 which was filed with the
    SEC on July 24, 2002, incorporated herein by reference). 

10 
     .6 

Fourth Amendment to the LP Agreement dated as of July 10,
    2002 (previously filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Current
    Report on Form 8-K dated July 10, 2002 which was filed
    with the SEC on July 24, 2002, incorporated herein by
    reference). 

10 
     .7 

Amendment to the LP Agreement dated as of November 27, 2002
    (previously filed as Exhibit 10(G) to the Annual Report on
    Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 which
    was filed with the SEC on March 14, 2003, incorporated
    herein by reference). 

10 
     .8 

Sixth Amendment to the LP Agreement and Exhibit A to the
    Amendment dated as of November 20, 2003 (previously filed
    as Exhibit 10.8 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for
    the year ended December 31, 2003 which was filed with the
    SEC on March 12, 2004, incorporated herein by reference). 

S-2

Table of Contents   

S-3

Table of Contents   

(*)  
     
    A compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed. 

Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of
Regulation  S-K, 
the registrant has not filed debt instruments relating to
long-term debt that is not registered and for which the total
amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10%
of total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis as of December 31, 2005. The registrant
agrees to furnish a copy of such agreements to the Commission
upon request.

S-4

<EX-3.1>
 2
 c02442exv3w1.txt
 RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION

EXHIBIT 3.1

                      RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION

                                        OF

                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

                  ------------------------------------------

      1. The name of the corporation (which is hereinafter referred to as the
"Corporation") is "General Growth Properties, Inc."

      2. The Corporation's original Certificate of Incorporation was filed with
the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on September 22, 1986, under the
name "General Growth Partners, Inc."

      3. An Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the
Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on April 6, 1993.

      4. A Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was filed
with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 24, 1995 (the
"Original Certificate").

      5. The provisions of the Original Certificate as heretofore amended and/or
supplemented are hereby restated and integrated into the single instrument which
is hereinafter set forth, and which is entitled Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of General Growth Properties, Inc., without further amendment and
without any discrepancy between the provisions of the Original Certificate as
heretofore amended and/or supplemented and the provisions of the said single
instrument hereinafter set forth.

      6. The Board of Directors of the Corporation has duly adopted this
Restated Certificate of Incorporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 245
of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware in the form set forth as
follows:

                                    ARTICLE I

      The name of the corporation (which is hereinafter referred to as the
"Corporation") shall be General Growth Properties, Inc.

                                   ARTICLE II

      The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of
Delaware is 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, 19808. The
name of the Corporation's registered agent at such address is The Prentice-Hall
Corporation System, Inc.

ARTICLE III

      The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity
for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware (the "GCL").

                                   ARTICLE IV

      A. Classes and Number of Shares. The total number of shares of all classes
of capital stock that the Corporation shall have authority to issue is Eight
Hundred Eighty Million (880,000,000) shares, consisting of (i) Five Million
(5,000,000) shares of preferred stock, par value $100.00 per share (the
"Preferred Stock") and (ii) Eight Hundred Seventy-Five Million (875,000,000)
shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock").

      B. Preferred Stock. The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in
one or more series. The Board of Directors is hereby authorized to provide for
the issuance of shares of Preferred Stock in series and, by filing a certificate
pursuant to the applicable law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter referred to
as a "Preferred Stock Designation"), to establish from time to time the number
of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the designation,
powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof. The authority of the Board
of Directors with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to,
determination of the following:

                  (i) The designation of the series, which may be by
      distinguishing number, letter or title.

                  (ii) The number of shares of the series, which number the
      Board of Directors may thereafter (except where otherwise provided in the
      Preferred Stock Designation) increase or decrease (but not below the
      number of shares thereof then outstanding).

                  (iii) Whether dividends, if any, shall be cumulative or
      noncumulative and the dividend rate of the series.

                  (iv) Dates at which dividends, if any, shall be payable.

                  (v) The redemption rights and price or prices, if any, for
      shares of the series.

                  (vi) The terms and amounts of any sinking fund provided for
      the purchase or redemption of shares of the series.

                  (vii) The amounts payable on shares of the series in the event
      of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
      the affairs of the Corporation.

                                       2

(viii) Whether the shares of the series shall be convertible
      into shares of any other class or series, or any other security, of the
      Corporation or any other corporation, and, if so, the specification of
      such other class or series of such other security, the conversion price or
      prices, or rate or rates, any adjustments thereof, the date or dates of
      which such shares shall be convertible and all other terms and conditions
      upon which such conversion may be made.

                  (ix) Restrictions on the issuance of shares of the same series
      or of any other class or series.

                  (x) The voting rights, if any, of the holders of shares of the
      series.

            The powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating,
optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions
thereof, of the Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock as
originally filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on
November 18, 1998 are as set forth in Appendix A hereto and are incorporated by
reference.

            The powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating,
optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions
thereof, of the Corporation's 8.5% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock,
Series C as originally filed with the Secretary of State of the State of
Delaware on July 10, 2002 are as set forth in Appendix B hereto and are
incorporated by reference.

            The powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating,
optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions
thereof, of the Corporation's 8.95% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
Series G as originally filed with the Secretary of State of the State of
Delaware on April 17, 2002 and as subsequently corrected are as set forth in
Appendix C hereto and are incorporated by reference.

            The powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating,
optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions
thereof, of the Corporation's 7% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series
H as originally filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on
November 27, 2002 are as set forth in Appendix D hereto and are incorporated by
reference.

      C.    Common Stock.

            (1) Common Stock Subject to Terms of Preferred Stock. The Common
Stock shall be subject to the express terms of the Preferred Stock and any
series thereof.

            (2) Dividend Rights. Except as otherwise provided in this
Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of shares of the Common Stock shall be
entitled to receive such dividends as may be declared by the Board of Directors
of the Corporation out of funds legally available therefor.

                                       3

(3) Rights Upon Liquidation. In the event of any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of, or any distribution of
the assets of, the Corporation, each holder of shares of the Common Stock shall
be entitled to receive, ratably with each other holder of shares of Common
Stock, that portion of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution
to the holders of its Common Stock, as the number of shares of the Common Stock
held by such holder bears to the total number of shares of Common Stock then
outstanding.

            (4) Voting Rights. Except as may be provided in this Certificate of
Incorporation or in a Preferred Stock Designation, the holders of shares of the
Common Stock shall have the exclusive right to vote on all matters (for which a
common stockholder shall be entitled to vote thereon) at all meetings of the
stockholders of the Corporation, and shall be entitled to one vote for each
share of the Common Stock entitled to vote at such meeting.

      D.    Restrictions on Transfer: Designation of Shares-in-Trust.

            (1)   Definitions. The following terms shall have the following
meanings:

                  "Beneficial Ownership" shall mean ownership of Equity Stock by
a Person who would be treated as an owner of such shares of Equity Stock either
directly or indirectly through the application of Section 544 of the Code, as
modified by Section 856(h)(1)(B) of the Code. The terms "Beneficial Owner",
"Beneficially Owns", and "Beneficially Owned" shall have correlative meanings.

                  "Beneficiary" shall mean, with respect to any Trust, one or
more organizations described in each of Section 170(b)(1)(A) and Section 170(c)
of the Code which are named by the Corporation as the beneficiary or
beneficiaries of such Trust, in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph
E(1) of this Article IV.

                  "Board of Directors" shall mean the Board of Directors of the
Corporation.

                  "Bucksbaum Group" shall mean (i) Martin Bucksbaum and Matthew
Bucksbaum (the "Bucksbaums"); and (ii) any stockholder of the Corporation whose
shares of Equity Stock are Beneficially Owned and/or Constructively Owned by the
Bucksbaums.

                  "Bylaws" shall mean the Bylaws of the Corporation.

                  "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended from time to time.

                  "Constructive Ownership" shall mean ownership of Equity Stock
by a Person who would be treated as an owner of such shares of Equity Stock
either directly or indirectly through the application of Section 318 of the
Code, as modified by Section 856(d)(5) of the Code. The terms "Constructive
Owner", "Constructively Owns" and "Constructively Owned" shall have correlative
meanings.

                                       4

"Equity Stock" shall mean stock that is either Preferred Stock
or Common Stock and shall include all shares of Preferred Stock or Common Stock
that are held as Shares-in-Trust in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
E of this Article IV.

                  "Existing Holder" shall mean the Bucksbaum Group.

                  "Existing Holder Limit" shall mean, initially, the greater of
the Ownership Limit and the percentage of the value of the outstanding Common
Stock Beneficially Owned by the Existing Holder immediately after the Initial
Public Offering, and after any adjustment pursuant to subparagraph D(10) of this
Article IV, shall mean such percentage of the outstanding Equity Stock as so
adjusted.

                  "GGP Partnership Agreement" shall mean the agreement of
limited partnership establishing GGP Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited
partnership.

                  "Initial Public Offering" means the sale of shares of Common
Stock pursuant to the Corporation's first effective registration statement for
such Common Stock filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

                  "Market Price" on any date shall mean the average of the
Closing Price for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on such date. The
"Closing Price" on any date shall mean the last sale price, or, in case no such
sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices,
in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting
system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York
Stock Exchange or, if the Equity Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on
the New York Stock Exchange, as reported in the principal consolidated
transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal
national securities exchange on which the Equity Stock is listed or admitted to
trading or, if the Equity Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on any
national securities exchange the last quoted price, or if not so quoted, the
average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as
reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated
Quotation System or, if such system is no longer in use, the principal other
automated quotations system that may then be in use or, if the Equity Stock is
not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked
prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the Equity
Stock selected by the Board of Directors of the Company. "Trading Day" shall
mean a day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the
Equity Stock is listed or admitted to trading is open for the transaction of
business or, if the Equity Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on any
national securities exchange, shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday
or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York are authorized
or obligated by law or executive order to close.

                  "Non-Transfer Event" shall mean an event other than a
purported Transfer that would cause any Person to Beneficially Own or
Constructively Own shares of Equity Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit (in
the case of any Person other than an Existing Holder) or the applicable Existing
Holder Limit (in the case of an Existing Holder), including, but not limited to,
the granting of any option or entering into any agreement for the sale, transfer
or other

                                       5

disposition of Equity Stock or the sale, transfer, assignment or other
disposition of any securities or rights convertible into or exchangeable for
Equity Stock.

                  "Ownership Limit" shall initially mean 7.5% of the value of
the outstanding Equity Stock of the Corporation, and after any adjustment as set
forth in subparagraph D(11) of this Article IV, shall mean such greater
percentage (but not more than 9.8%) of the value of the outstanding Equity Stock
as so adjusted.

                  "Permitted Transferee" shall mean any Person designated as a
Permitted Transferee in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph E(5)
hereof.

                  "Person" shall mean an individual, corporation, partnership,
estate, trust (other than a trust qualified under Section 401(a) or 501(c)(17)
of the Code), a portion of a trust permanently set aside for or to be used
exclusively for the purposes described in Section 642(c) of the Code,
association, private foundation within the meaning of Section 509(a) of the
Code, joint stock company or other entity and also includes a group as that term
is used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended.

                  "Prohibited Owner" shall mean, with respect to any purported
Transfer or Non-Transfer Event, any Person who, but for the provisions of
subparagraph (D)(3) of this Article IV, would own record title to shares of
Equity Stock.

                  "REIT" shall mean a Real Estate Investment Trust under Section
856 of the Code.

                  "Restriction Termination Date" shall mean the first day after
the date of the Initial Public Offering on which the Board of Directors and the
stockholders of the Corporation determine that it is no longer in the best
interests of the Corporation to attempt to, or continue to, qualify as a REIT.

                  "Rights" shall mean the rights granted under the GGP
Partnership Agreement to the limited partners, including members of the
Bucksbaum Group, to acquire Common Stock.

                  "Transfer" shall mean any sale, transfer, gift, assignment,
devise or other disposition of Equity Stock, whether voluntary or involuntary,
whether of record, constructively or beneficially and whether by operation of
law or otherwise.

                  "Trust" shall mean any separate trust created pursuant to
subparagraph D(3) of this Article IV and administered in accordance with the
terms of subparagraph E of this Article IV, for the exclusive benefit of any
Beneficiary.

                  "Trustee" shall mean any person or entity unaffiliated with
both the Corporation and any Prohibited Owner, such Trustee to be designated by
the Corporation to act as trustee of any Trust, or any successor trustee
thereof.

                                       6

"Voting Stock" shall mean the outstanding shares of capital
stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of
directors.

            (2)   Restriction on Transfers.

                  (a) Except as provided in subparagraph D(9) of this Article
IV, from the date of the Initial Public Offering and prior to the Restriction
Termination Date, no Person (other than an Existing Holder) shall Beneficially
Own or Constructively Own shares of the outstanding Equity Stock in excess of
the Ownership Limit, and no Existing Holder shall Beneficially Own or
Constructively Own shares of Equity Stock in excess of the Existing Holder Limit
for such Existing Holder.

                  (b) Except as provided in subparagraph D(9) of this Article
IV, from the date of the Initial Public Offering and prior to the Restriction
Termination Date, any Transfer that, if effective, would result in any Person
(other than an Existing Holder) Beneficially Owning or Constructively Owning
Equity Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit shall be void ab initio as to the
Transfer of that number of shares of Equity Stock which would be otherwise
Beneficially Owned or Constructively Owned by such Person in excess of the
Ownership Limit; and the intended transferee shall acquire no rights in such
excess shares of Equity Stock.

                  (c) Except as provided in subparagraph D(9) of this Article
IV, from the date of the Initial Public Offering and prior to the Restriction
Termination Date, any Transfer that, if effective, would result in any Existing
Holder Beneficially Owning or Constructively Owning Equity Stock in excess of
the applicable Existing Holder Limit shall be void ab initio as to the Transfer
of that number of shares of Equity Stock which would be otherwise Beneficially
Owned or Constructively Owned by such Person in excess of the applicable
Existing Holder Limit; and such Existing Holder shall acquire no rights in such
excess shares of Equity Stock.

                  (d) Except as provided in subparagraph D(9) of this Article
IV, from the date of the Initial Public Offering and prior to the Restriction
Termination Date, any Transfer that, if effective, would result in the Equity
Stock being Beneficially Owned by fewer than 100 Persons (determined without
reference to any rules of attribution) shall be void ab initio as to the
Transfer of that number of shares which would be otherwise Beneficially or
Constructively Owned (determined without reference to any rules of attribution)
by the transferee; and the intended transferee shall acquire no rights in such
excess shares of Equity Stock.

                  (e) From the date of the Initial Public Offering and prior to
the Restriction Termination Date, any Transfer of shares of Equity Stock that,
if effective, would result in the Corporation being "closely held" within the
meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code shall be void ab initio as to the Transfer
of that number of shares of Equity Stock which would cause the Corporation to be
"closely held" within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code; and the
intended transferee shall acquire no rights in such excess shares of Equity
Stock.

                                       7

(3)   Transfer in Trust.

                  (a) If, notwithstanding the other provisions contained in this
Article IV, at any time after the date of the Initial Public Offering and prior
to the Restriction Termination Date, there is a purported Transfer or
Non-Transfer Event such that any Person would either Beneficially Own or
Constructively Own Equity Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit (in the case of
any Person other than an Existing Holder) or Existing Holder Limit (in the case
of an Existing Holder), then, (i) except as otherwise provided in subparagraph
D(9), the purported transferee shall acquire no right or interest (or, in the
case of a Non-Transfer Event, the person holding record title to the Equity
Shares Beneficially Owned or Constructively Owned by such Beneficial Owner or
Constructive Owner, shall cease to own any right or interest) in such number of
shares of Equity Stock which would cause such Beneficial Owner or Constructive
Owner to Beneficially Own or Constructively Own shares of Equity Stock in excess
of the Ownership Limit or the Existing Holder Limit, as the case may be; and
(ii) such number of shares of Equity Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit or
the Existing Holder Limit (rounded up to the nearest whole share) shall be
designated Shares-in-Trust and, in accordance with subparagraph E of this
Article IV, transferred automatically and by operation of law to a Trust. Such
transfer to a Trust and the designation of the shares as Shares-in-Trust shall
be effective as of the close of business on the business day prior to the date
of the purported Transfer or Non-Transfer Event, as the case may be.

                  (b) If, notwithstanding the other provisions contained in this
Article IV, at any time after the date of the Initial Public Offering and prior
to the Restriction Termination Date, there is a purported Transfer or
Non-Transfer Event that, if effective, would cause the Corporation to become
"closely held" within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code, then (i) the
purported transferee shall not acquire any right or interest (or, in the case of
a Non-Transfer Event, the person holding record title of the Equity Stock with
respect to which such Non-Transfer Event occurred, shall cease to own any right
or interest) in such number of shares of Equity Stock, the ownership of which by
such purported transferee or record holder would cause the Corporation to be
"closely held" within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code; and (ii) such
number of shares of Equity Stock (rounded up to the nearest whole share) shall
be designated Shares-in-Trust and, in accordance with the provisions of
subparagraph E of this Article IV, transferred automatically and by operation of
law to the Trust to be held in accordance with that subparagraph E. Such
transfer to a Trust and the designation of shares as Shares-in-Trust shall be
effective as of the close of business on the business day prior to the date of
the Transfer or Non-Transfer Event, as the case may be.

            (4)   Remedies for Breach. If the Corporation or its designees shall
at any time determine in good faith that a Transfer has taken place in violation
of subparagraph D(2) of this Article IV or that a Person intends to acquire or
has attempted to acquire Beneficial Ownership or Constructive Ownership of any
shares of Equity Stock in violation of subparagraph D(2) of this Article IV, the
Corporation or its designees shall take such action as it or they deem advisable
to refuse to give effect to or to prevent such Transfer or acquisition,
including but not limited to, refusing to give effect to such Transfer or
acquisition on the books of the Corporation or instituting proceedings to enjoin
such Transfer or acquisition.

                                       8

(5)   Notice of Restricted Transfer. Any Person who acquires or
attempts to acquire shares of Equity Stock in violation of subparagraph D(2) of
this Article IV, or any Person who owned shares of Equity Stock that were
transferred to the Trust pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph D(3) of this
Article IV, shall immediately give written notice to the Corporation of such
event and shall provide to the Corporation such other information as the
Corporation may request in order to determine the effect, if any, of such
Transfer or the Non-Transfer Event, as the case may be, on the Corporation's
status as a REIT.

            (6)   Owners Required to Provide Information. From the date of the
Initial Public Offering and prior to the Restriction Termination Date:

                  (a) every Beneficial Owner or Constructive Owner of more than
1%, or such lower percentages as required pursuant to regulations under the
Code, of the outstanding Equity Stock of the Corporation shall, within 30 days
after each of January 1 and June 30 of each year, give written notice to the
Corporation stating the name and address of such Beneficial Owner or
Constructive Owner, the number of shares of Equity Stock Beneficially Owned or
Constructively Owned, and a description of how such shares are held. Each such
Beneficial Owner or Constructive Owner shall provide to the Corporation such
additional information as the Corporation may request in order to determine the
effect, if any, of such Beneficial Ownership on the Corporation's status as a
REIT and to ensure compliance with the Ownership Limit and Existing Holder
Limit.

                  (b) each Person who is a Beneficial Owner or Constructive
Owner of Equity Stock and each Person (including the stockholder of record) who
is holding Equity Stock for a Beneficial Owner or Constructive Owner shall
provide to the Corporation such information as the Corporation may request in
order to determine the Corporation's status as a REIT and to ensure compliance
with the Ownership Limit and Existing Holder Limit.

            (7)   Remedies Not Limited. Nothing contained in this Article IV
shall limit the authority of the Corporation to take such other action as it
deems necessary or advisable to protect the Corporation and the interests of its
stockholders by preservation of the Corporation's status as a REIT and ensure
compliance with the Ownership Limit and Existing Holder Limit.

            (8)   Ambiguity. In the case of an ambiguity in the application of
any of the provisions of subparagraph D of this Article IV, including any
definition contained in subparagraph D(1), the Board of Directors shall have the
power to determine the application of the provisions of this subparagraph D with
respect to any situation based on the facts known to it.

            (9)   Exception. The Corporation, upon receipt of a ruling from the
Internal Revenue Service or an opinion of counsel in each case to the effect
that the restrictions contained in subparagraph D(2)(d) and/or subparagraph
D(2)(e) will not be violated, may exempt a Person from the Ownership Limit or
Existing Holder Limit, as the case may be, if such Person is not an individual
for purposes of Section 542(a)(2) of the Code or is an underwriter which
participates in a public offering of the Equity Stock for a period of 90 days
following the purchase by such underwriter of the Equity Stock and the
Corporation obtains such representations and undertakings from such Person as
are reasonably necessary to ascertain that no individual's

                                       9

Beneficial Ownership of Equity Stock will violate the Ownership Limit or
Existing Holder Limit, as the case may be, and agrees that any violation or
attempted violation will result in such transfer to the Trust of shares of
Equity Stock pursuant to subparagraph D(3) of this Article IV.

            (10)  Modifications of Existing Holding Limits. The Existing Holder
Limit shall be modified as follows:

                  (a) Upon any exercise of Rights pursuant to the GGP
Partnership Agreement, or the acquisition of Equity Stock by the Bucksbaum
Group, the Ownership Limit and/or the Existing Holder Limit for each affected
Person shall be increased, pro rata in accordance with the number of shares of
Common Stock to be received by such Person, to the maximum extent possible under
subparagraph D(12) to permit the Beneficial Ownership or Constructive Ownership
of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such exercise or acquisition.

                  (b) Subject to the limitations contained in subparagraph
D(12), the Board of Directors may grant stock options which result in Beneficial
Ownership or Constructive Ownership of Equity Stock by an Existing Holder
pursuant to a stock option plan approved by the stockholders of the Corporation.
Any such grant of stock options shall increase the Existing Holder Limit for the
affected Existing Holder to the maximum extent possible under subparagraph D(12)
to permit the Beneficial Ownership or Constructive Ownership of the shares of
Equity Stock issuable upon exercise of such stock options.

                  (c) The Board of Directors may reduce the Existing Holder
Limit for any Existing Holder, with the written consent of such Existing Holder,
after any Transfer permitted in this subparagraph D by such Existing Holder to a
Person other than an Existing Holder or after the lapse (without exercise) of a
stock option described in subparagraph D(10)(b).

            (11)  Modification of Ownership Limit. Subject to the limitations
contained in subparagraph D(12), the Board of Directors may from time to time
increase or decrease the Ownership Limit.

            (12)  Limitations on Modifications.

                  (a) Neither the Ownership Limit nor any Existing Holder Limit
may be increased or decreased (nor may any additional Existing Holder Limit be
created) if, after giving effect to such increase (or creation), five Beneficial
Owners of Equity Stock (including all of the then Existing Holders) could
(assuming ownership of shares by all Persons other than Existing Holders equal
to the Ownership Limit) Beneficially Own, in the aggregate, more than 50% of the
outstanding Equity Stock.

                  (b) Prior to any modifications of any Existing Holder Limit or
Ownership Limit, the Board of Directors of the Corporation may require such
opinions of counsel, affidavits, undertakings or agreements as it may deem
necessary or advisable in order to determine or ensure the Corporation's status
as a REIT.

                                       10

(c) No Existing Holder Limit shall be reduced to a percentage
that is less than the Ownership Limit.

                  (d) The Ownership Limit may not be increased to a percentage
that is greater than 9.8%.

            (13)  Legend. Each certificate for Equity Stock shall bear the
following legend:

            "The shares of Equity Stock represented by this certificate are
subject to restrictions on transfer for the purpose of the Corporation's
maintenance of its status as a real estate investment trust under the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). No Person may (1) Beneficially
Own or Constructively Own shares of Equity Stock in excess of 7.5% (or such
other percentage as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the
Corporation) of the value of the outstanding Equity Stock of the Corporation
unless such Person is an Existing Holder (in which case the Existing Holder
Limit shall be applicable); or (2) Beneficially Own Equity Stock which would
result in the Corporation being "closely held" under Section 856(h) of the Code.
Any Person who attempts to Beneficially Own or Constructively Own shares of
Equity Stock in excess of the above limitations must immediately notify the
Corporation in writing. If the restrictions above are violated, the shares of
Equity Stock represented hereby will be transferred automatically and by
operation of law to a Trust and shall be designated Shares-in-Trust. All
capitalized terms in this legend have the meanings defined in the Corporation's
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as the same may be further
amended from time to time, a copy of which, including the restrictions on
transfer, will be sent without charge to each stockholder who so requests."

            (14)  Severability. If any provision of this Article IV or any
application of any such provision is determined to be invalid by any Federal or
state court having jurisdiction over the issues, the validity of the remaining
provisions shall not be affected and other applications of such provision shall
be affected only to the extent necessary to comply with the determination of
such court.

      E.    Shares-in-Trust.

            (1)   Trust. Any shares of Equity Stock transferred to a Trust and
designated Shares-in-Trust pursuant to subparagraph D(3) of this Article IV
shall be held for the exclusive benefit of the Beneficiary. The Corporation
shall name a beneficiary of each Trust within five (5) days after discovery of
the existence thereof. Any transfer to a Trust, and subsequent designation of
shares of Equity Stock as Shares-in-Trust, pursuant to subparagraph D(3) of this
Article IV shall be effective as of the close of business on the business day
prior to the date of the Transfer or Non-Transfer Event that results in the
transfer to the Trust. Shares-in-Trust shall remain issued and outstanding
shares of Equity Stock of the Corporation and shall be entitled to the same
rights and privileges on identical terms and conditions as are all other issued
and outstanding shares of Equity Stock of the same class and series. When
transferred to the Permitted Transferee in accordance with the provisions of
subparagraph E(5) of this Article IV, such Shares-in-Trust shall cease to be
designated as Shares-in-Trust.

                                       11

(2)   Dividend Rights. The Trustee, as record holder of
Shares-in-Trust, shall be entitled to receive all dividends and distributions as
may be declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation on such shares of
Equity Stock and shall hold such dividends or distributions in trust for the
benefit of the Beneficiary. The Prohibited Owner with respect to Shares-in-Trust
shall repay to the Trustee the amount of any dividends or distributions received
by it that (i) are attributable to any shares of Equity Stock designated
Shares-in-Trust and (ii) the record date of which was on or after the date that
such shares became Shares-in-Trust. The Corporation shall take all measures that
it determines reasonably necessary to recover the amount of any such dividend or
distribution paid to a Prohibited Owner, including, if necessary, withholding
any portion of future dividends or distributions payable on shares of Equity
Stock Beneficially Owned or Constructively Owned by the Person who, but for the
provisions of subparagraph D(3) of this Article IV, would Constructively Own or
Beneficially Own the Shares-in-Trust; and, as soon as reasonably practicable
following the Corporation's receipt or withholding thereof, shall pay over to
the Trustee for the benefit of the Beneficiary the dividends so received or
withheld, as the case may be.

            (3)   Rights Upon Liquidation. In the event of any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of, or any distribution of
the assets of, the Corporation, each holder of Shares-in-Trust shall be entitled
to receive, ratably with each other holder of Equity Stock of the same class or
series, that portion of the assets of the Corporation which is available for
distribution to the holders of such class and series of Equity Stock. The
Trustee shall distribute to the Prohibited Owner the amounts received upon such
liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, or distribution; provided, however,
that the Prohibited Owner shall not be entitled to receive amounts pursuant to
this subparagraph E(3) in excess of, in the case of a purported Transfer in
which the Prohibited Owner gave value for shares of Equity Stock and which
Transfer resulted in the transfer of the shares to the Trust, the price per
share, if any, such Prohibited Owner paid for the Equity Stock and, in the case
of a Non-Transfer Event or Transfer in which the Prohibited Owner did not give
value for such shares (e.g., if the shares were received through a gift or
devise) and which Non-Transfer Event or Transfer, as the case may be, resulted
in the transfer of shares to the Trust, the price per share equal to the Market
Price on the date of such Non-Transfer Event or Transfer. Any remaining amount
in such Trust shall be distributed to the Beneficiary.

            (4)   Voting Rights. The Trustee shall be entitled to vote all
Shares-in-Trust. Any vote by a Prohibited Owner as a holder of shares of Equity
Stock prior to the discovery by the Corporation that the shares of Equity Stock
are Shares-in-Trust shall, subject to applicable law, be rescinded and shall be
void ab initio with respect to such Shares-in-Trust and the Prohibited Owner
shall be deemed to have given, as of the close of business on the business day
prior to the date of the purported Transfer or Non-Transfer Event that results
in the transfer to the Trust of the shares of Equity Stock under subparagraph
D(3) of this Article IV, an irrevocable proxy to the Trustee to vote the
Shares-in-Trust in the manner in which the Trustee, in its sole and absolute
discretion, desires.

            (5)  Designation of Permitted Transferee. The Trustee shall have the
exclusive and absolute right to designate a Permitted Transferee of any and all
Shares-in-Trust. As reasonably practicable as possible, in an orderly fashion so
as not to materially adversely affect

                                       12

the Market Price of the Shares-in-Trust, the Trustee shall designate any Person
as Permitted Transferee, provided, however, that (i) the Permitted Transferee so
designated purchases for valuable consideration (whether in a public or private
sale) the Shares-in-Trust and (ii) the Permitted Transferee so designated may
acquire such Shares-in-Trust without such acquisition resulting in a transfer to
a Trust and the redesignation of such shares of the Equity Stock so acquired as
Shares-in-Trust under subparagraph D(3) of this Article IV. Upon the designation
by the Trustee of a Permitted Transferee in accordance with the provisions of
this subparagraph, the Trustee of a Trust shall (i) cause to be transferred to
the Permitted Transferee that number of Shares-in-Trust acquired by the
Permitted Transferee; (ii) cause to be recorded on the books of the Corporation
that the Permitted Transferee is the holder of record of such number of shares
of Equity Stock; and (iii) distribute to the Beneficiary any and all amounts
held with respect to the Shares-in-Trust after making that payment to the
Prohibited Owner pursuant to subparagraph E(6) of this Article IV.

            (6)   Compensation to Record Holder of Shares of Equity Stock that
Become Shares-In-Trust. Any Prohibited Owner shall be entitled (following
discovery of the Shares-In-Trust and subsequent designation of the Permitted
Transferee in accordance with subparagraph D(5) of this Article IV) to receive
from the Trustee the lesser of (i) in the case of (a) a purported Transfer in
which the Prohibited Owner gave value for shares of Equity Stock and which
Transfer resulted in the transfer of the shares to the Trust, the price per
share, if any, such Prohibited Owner paid for the Equity Stock, or (b) a
Non-Transfer Event or Transfer in which the Prohibited Owner did not give value
for such shares (e.g., if the shares were received through a gift or devise) and
which Non-Transfer Event or Transfer, as the case may be, resulted in the
transfer of shares to the Trust, the price per share equal to the Market Price
on the date of such Non-Transfer Event or Transfer, and (ii) the price per share
received by the Trustee of the Trust from the sale or other disposition of such
Shares-in-Trust in accordance with subparagraph E(5) of this Article IV. Any
amounts received by the Trustee in respect of such Shares-in-Trust and in excess
of such amounts to be paid the Prohibited Owner pursuant to this subparagraph
E(6) of this Article IV shall be distributed to the Beneficiary in accordance
with the provisions of subparagraph E(5) of this Article IV. Each Beneficiary
and Prohibited Owner waive any and all claims that they may have against the
Trustee and the Corporation arising out of the disposition of Shares-in-Trust,
except for claims arising out of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of,
or any failure to make payments in accordance with paragraph E of this Article
IV by, such Trustee or the Corporation.

            (7)   Purchase Right in Shares-in-Trust. Shares-in-Trust shall be
deemed to have been offered for sale to the Corporation, or its designee, at a
price per share equal to the lesser of (i) the price per share in the
transaction that created such Shares-in-Trust (or, in the case of devise, gift
or Non-Transfer Event, the Market Price at the time of such devise, gift or
Non-Transfer Event) and (ii) the Market Price on the date the Corporation, or
its designee, accepts such offer. The Corporation shall have the right to accept
such offer for a period of ninety days after the later of (i) the date of the
Non-Transfer Event or purported Transfer which resulted in such Shares-in-Trust
and (ii) the date the Corporation determines in good faith that a Transfer or
Non-Transfer Event resulting in Shares-in-Trust has occurred, if the Corporation
does not receive a notice of such Transfer or Non-Transfer Event pursuant to
subparagraph D(5) of this Article IV.

                                       13

F.   Issuance of Rights to Purchase Securities and Other Property. Subject
to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, the Board of
Directors is hereby authorized to create and to authorize and direct the
issuance (on either a pro rata or a non-pro rata basis) by the Corporation of
rights, options and warrants for the purchase of shares of capital stock of the
Corporation, other securities of the Corporation, or shares or other securities
of any successor in interest of the Corporation (a "Successor"), at such times,
in such amounts, to such persons, for such consideration (if any), with such
form and content (including without limitation the consideration for which any
shares of capital stock of the Corporation, other securities of the Corporation,
or shares or other securities of any Successor are to be issued) and upon such
terms and conditions as it may, from time to time, determine upon, subject only
to the restrictions, limitations, conditions and requirements imposed by the
GCL, other applicable laws and this Certificate.

                                    ARTICLE V

                  (a) In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers
conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to (i)
make, alter, amend or repeal the By-laws of the Corporation; provided, however,
that a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting
together as a single class, may alter, amend or repeal any provision of the
By-laws, and (ii) from time to time determine whether and to what extent, and at
what times and places, and under what conditions and regulations, the accounts
and books of the Corporation, or any of them, shall be open to inspection of
stockholders; and, except as so determined or as provided in any Preferred Stock
Designation, no stockholder shall have any right to inspect any account, book or
document of the Corporation other than such rights as may be conferred by
applicable law.

                  (b) The Corporation may in its By-laws confer powers upon the
Board of Directors in addition to the foregoing and in addition to the powers
and authorities expressly conferred upon the Board of Directors by applicable
law. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to
the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the then
outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required
to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with paragraph (a) of this
Article V.

                                   ARTICLE VI

                  (a) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of
Preferred Stock as set forth in a Preferred Stock Designation to elect
additional directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors of
the Corporation shall be fixed by the By-laws of the Corporation and may be
increased or decreased from time to time in such a manner as may be prescribed
by the By-laws.

                  (b) Unless and except to the extent that the By-laws of the
Corporation shall so require, the election of directors of the Corporation need
not be by written ballot.

                                       14

(c) The directors, other than those who may be elected by the
holders of any series of Preferred Stock, shall be divided into three classes,
as nearly equal in number as possible. One class of directors shall be initially
elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in
1994, another class shall be initially elected for a term expiring at the annual
meeting of stockholders to be held in 1995, and another class shall be initially
elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in
1996. Members of each class shall hold office until their successors are elected
and qualified. At each succeeding annual meeting of the stockholders of the
Corporation, the successors of the class of directors whose term expires at that
meeting shall be elected by a plurality vote of all votes cast at such meeting
to hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in
the third year following the year of their election.

                  (d) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of
Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, any
director may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and only by
the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% of the then outstanding Voting Stock,
voting together as a single class.

                  (e) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of
Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority
of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall
be required to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with this
Article VI.

                  (f) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of
Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority
of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting as a single class, and the approval
of the Board of Directors shall be required to terminate the Corporation's
status as a real estate investment trust.

                                   ARTICLE VII

      Each person who is or was or who agrees to become a director or officer of
the Corporation, or each such person who is or was serving or who agrees to
serve at the request of the Board of Directors or an officer of the Corporation
as an employee or agent of the Corporation or as a director, officer, employee
or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other
enterprise (including the heirs, executor, administrators or estate of such
person), shall be indemnified by the Corporation, in accordance with the Bylaws
of the Corporation, to the full extent permitted from time to time by the GCL as
the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such
amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to
provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation
to provide prior to such amendment) or any other applicable laws presently or
hereafter in effect. Without limiting the generality or the effect of the
foregoing, the Corporation may enter into one or more agreements with any person
which provide for indemnification greater or different than that provided in
this Article VII. Any amendment or repeal of this Article VII shall not
adversely affect any right or protection existing hereunder immediately prior to
such amendment or repeal.

                                       15

ARTICLE VIII

      No director of the Corporation shall be personally liable to the
Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary
duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's
duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or
omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing
violation of law, (iii) pursuant to Section 174 of the GCL or (iv) for any
transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.

                                   ARTICLE IX

      In determining what is in the best interest of the Corporation, a director
of the Corporation shall consider the interests of the stockholders of the
Corporation and, in his or her discretion, may consider (a) the interests of the
Corporation's employees, suppliers, creditors and customers, (b) the economy of
the nation, (c) community and societal interests and (d) the long-term as well
as short-term interests of the Corporation and its stockholders, including the
possibility that these interests may be best served by the continued
independence of the Corporation.

                                    ARTICLE X

      The Corporation reserves the right at any time and from time to time to
amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of
Incorporation or a Preferred Stock Designation, and any other provisions
authorized by the laws of the State of Delaware at the time in force may be
added or inserted in the manner now or hereafter prescribed herein or by
applicable law, and all rights, preferences and privileges of whatsoever nature
conferred upon stockholders, directors or any other persons whomsoever by and
pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation in its present form or as
hereafter amended are granted subject to the rights reserved in this Article IX,
provided, however, that any amendment or repeal of Article VII or Article VIII
of this Certificate of Incorporation shall not adversely affect any right or
protection existing hereunder immediately prior to such amendment or repeal.

                                   ARTICLE XI

      Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock as
set forth on a Preferred Stock Designation to elect additional directors under
specific circumstances, any action required or permitted to be taken by the
stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or
special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by
any consent in writing of such stockholders. Notwithstanding anything contained
in this Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of at
least 80% of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single
class, shall be required to amend, repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent
with this Article XI.

                                       16

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Restated Certificate
of Incorporation to be signed by its Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer this 9th day of February, 2006.

                                        GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

                                        By:  /s/ Bernard Freibaum
                                           -------------------------------------
                                           Bernard Freibaum, Executive Vice
                                           President and Chief Financial Officer

                                       17

APPENDIX A

                           CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION

                                       of

                  SERIES A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK

                                       of

                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

                    ----------------------------------------------

                         (Pursuant to Section 151 of the
                        Delaware General Corporation Law)

                    ----------------------------------------------

General Growth Properties, Inc., a corporation organized and existing
under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called
the "Company"), hereby certifies that the following resolution was adopted by
the Board of Directors of the Company as required by Section 151 of the General
Corporation Law at a meeting duly called and held on November 18, 1998:

      RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the
Board of Directors of this Company (hereinafter called the "Board of Directors"
or the "Board") in accordance with the provisions of the Second Amended Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended (the "Restated
Certificate of Incorporation"), the Board of Directors hereby creates a series
of Preferred Stock, par value $100.00 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), of the
Company and hereby states the designation and number of shares, and fixes the
relative rights, preferences and limitations thereof as follows:

      Section 1. Designation and Amount. The shares of this series shall be
designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "Series A
Preferred Stock") and the number of shares constituting the Series A Preferred
Stock shall be 100,000. Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by
resolution of the Board of Directors; provided, that no decrease shall reduce
the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the
number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for
issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon
the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Company convertible
into Series A Preferred Stock.

      Section 2. Dividends and Distributions.

            (A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series
of Preferred Stock (or any other stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series
A Preferred Stock with respect

                                      A-1

to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of
funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on
the last day of March, June, September and December in each year (each such date
being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on
the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or
fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount (if any) per share
(rounded to the nearest cent), subject to the provision for adjustment
hereinafter set forth, equal to 1000 times the aggregate per share amount of all
cash dividends, and 1000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind)
of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable
in shares of Common Stock, par value $.10 per share (the "Common Stock"), of the
Company or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the
immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the
first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or
fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Company shall
at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of
Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by
payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number
of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of
shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event
under the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the
number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such
event.

            (B) The Company shall declare a dividend or distribution on the
Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section
immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock
(other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock).

            (C) Dividends due pursuant to paragraph (A) of this Section shall
begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred
Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue
of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record
date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on
such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or
unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after
the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly
Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to
accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but
unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series
A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at
the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a
share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of
Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or
distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days
prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.

                                      A-2

Section 3.  Voting Rights. The holders of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock shall have the following voting rights:-

                  (A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set
forth, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof
to 1000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the
Company. In the event the Company shall at any time declare or pay any dividend
on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision
or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common
Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each
such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted
by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number
of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the
denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to such event.

                  (B) Except as otherwise provided the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, including any other Certificate of Designations creating a series
of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other
capital stock of the Company having general voting rights shall vote together as
one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Company.

                  (C) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise required by
law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and
their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to
vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate
action.

      Section 4.  Certain Restrictions.

            (A) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions
payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears,
thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether
or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have
been paid in full, the Company shall not:

                  (i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions,
on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;

                  (ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other
distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A
Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock
and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in
proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then
entitled; or

                  (iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for
consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to

                                       A-3

the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Company may at any time redeem,
purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for
shares of any stock of the Company ranking junior (as to dividends and upon
dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock.

            (B)   The Company shall not permit any subsidiary of the Company to
purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the
Company unless the Company could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4,
purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.

      Section 5. Reacquired Shares. Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock
purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company in any manner whatsoever shall be
retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares
shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred
Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to
the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein or in the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, including any Certificate of Designations creating
a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or as otherwise required by
law.

      Section 6. Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up. Upon any liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Company the holders of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share,
subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1000
times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of
Common Stock plus an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends. In the
event the Company shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common
Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination
or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification
or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a
greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the
aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were
entitled immediately prior to such event under the preceding sentence shall be
adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the
number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and
the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to such event.

      Section 7. Consolidation, Merger, etc. In case the Company shall enter
into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the
shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or
securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of
Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or
changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment
hereinafter set forth, equal to 1000 times the aggregate amount of stock,
securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may
be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged.
In the event the Company shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the
Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or
combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common
Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each
such case the amount set forth

                                      A-4

in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the
number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such
event.

      Section 8. Amendment. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall not
be amended in any manner, including in a merger or consolidation, which would
alter, change or repeal the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series
A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of
the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series A
Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class.

      Section 9. Rank. The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect to
the payment of dividends and upon liquidation, dissolution and winding up,
junior to all series of Preferred Stock.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designation is executed on behalf
of the Company by its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer this
18th day of November, 1998.

                                           GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

                                           By:  /s/ Bernard Freibaum
                                                ------------------------------
                                                Bernard Freibaum
                                                Executive Vice President
                                                 and Chief Financial Officer

                                      A-5

APPENDIX B

               CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS, PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS

                                       OF

              8.5% CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES C

                                       OF

                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

     Pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State Of
                                    Delaware

      General Growth Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"),
hereby certifies that the following resolution creating a series of its
preferred stock, par value $100 per share, liquidation preference $1,000 per
share, designated as the 8.5% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C,
has been adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") on
June 28, 2002 pursuant to the authority contained in Article IV of its Second
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (the "Certificate
of Incorporation"), and in accordance with Section 151 of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL") and by the Preferred Stock
Pricing Committee of the Board on July 9, 2002 pursuant to the authority
conferred upon such Committee by the Board in accordance with Section 141(c) of
the DGCL.

      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company is authorized, within the
limitations and restrictions stated in its Certificate of Incorporation, to
provide for the issuance of preferred stock in series and to establish the
number of shares to be included in such series and to fix the designation,
powers, preferences and rights of the shares of such series and the
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof; and

      WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board of Directors, pursuant to its
authority as aforesaid, to authorize and fix the terms of the preferred stock to
be designated the "8.5% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C" and
the number of shares constituting such preferred stock.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that there is hereby authorized the 8.5%
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C on the terms and with the
provisions herein set forth :

I.    Certain Definitions

      As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings
(with terms defined in the singular having comparable meanings when used in the
plural and vice versa), unless the context otherwise requires:

                                      B-1

"Capital Stock" shall mean Common Stock or Preferred Stock. The term
"Capital Stock" shall not include convertible debt securities.

      "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock, par value $.10 per share, of
the Company.

      "Dividend Payment Date" shall mean, with respect to any Dividend Period,
the payment date for the dividend declared by the Company on its shares of
Common Stock for such Dividend Period or, if no such payment date is
established, the last business day of such Dividend Period.

      "Dividend Period" shall mean the quarterly period that is then the
dividend period with respect to the Common Stock or, if no such dividend period
is established, the calendar quarter shall be the Dividend Period; provided that
the initial dividend period with respect to any share of Series C Preferred
Stock shall commence on the date of issuance thereof and end on and include the
last day of the then current quarterly period that is then the dividend period
with respect to the Common Stock and the dividend period in which the final
liquidation payment is made shall commence on the first day following the
immediately preceding Dividend Period and end on the date of such final
liquidation payment).

      "Fair Market Value" shall mean the average of the daily Closing Price
during the five consecutive Trading Days selected by the Company commencing not
more than 20 Trading Days before, and ending not later than, the day in question
with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation.

      "Fifteenth Anniversary Date" shall mean July 10, 2017.

      "Ownership Limitations" shall mean the restrictions on transferability and
ownership described in Article IV of the Certificate of Incorporation,
specifically, that ownership of more than 7.5% of the value of the outstanding
shares of Capital Stock of the Company, including the Series C Preferred Stock,
is restricted.

      "Preferred Stock" shall mean the preferred stock, par value $100 per
share, of the Company.

      "Series A Preferred Stock" shall mean the Preferred Stock designated as
7.25% Preferred Income Equity Redeemable Stock, Series A.

      "Series B Preferred Stock" shall mean the Preferred Stock designated as
8.95% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B.

      "Series G Preferred Stock" shall mean the Preferred Stock designated as
8.95% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series G.

                                      B-2

"Series B Preferred Units" shall mean the 8.5% Series B Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Units of limited partnership in GGP Limited Partnership, a
Delaware limited partnership.

      Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings
set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation.

II.   Designation and Number of Shares

         A series of Preferred Stock, designated the "8.5% Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C" (the "Series C Preferred Stock"), is
hereby established. The par value of the Series C Preferred Stock is $100 per
share, which is not a change in the par value of the shares of Preferred Stock
as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation. The authorized number of
shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be 71,320.

III.  Rank

      The Series C Preferred Stock, with respect to payment of dividends and
amounts upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of
the Company, shall be deemed to rank:

      (a) senior to all classes or series of Common Stock and to all Capital
Stock of the Company the terms of which provide that such Capital Stock shall
rank junior to the Series C Preferred Stock;

      (b) on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, the Series B Preferred
Stock, the Series G Preferred Stock and each other series of Preferred Stock
issued by the Company which does not provide by its express terms that it ranks
junior in right of payment to the Series C Preferred Stock with respect to
payment of dividends or amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up; and

      (c) junior to any class or series of Capital Stock issued by the Company
that ranks senior to the Series C Preferred Stock in accordance with Section
IV(d).

IV.   Voting

      (a) Holders of shares of the Series C Preferred Stock shall not have any
voting rights, except as provided by applicable law and as described below in
this Section IV.

      (b) If and whenever six quarterly dividends on the Series C Preferred
Stock, whether or not earned or declared, shall be in arrears (which shall, with
respect to any such quarterly dividend, mean that any such dividend has not been
paid in full) (a "Preferred Dividend Default"), the number of directors then
constituting the Board shall be increased by two and the holders of shares of
the Series C Preferred Stock (voting separately as a single class (regardless of
series) with all other Capital Stock of the Company upon which like voting
rights have been conferred and are exercisable ("Parity Preferred Stock")) shall
be entitled to elect two additional directors (the "Preferred Stock Directors")
to serve on the Board at any annual meeting of

                                      B-3

stockholders or special meeting held in place thereof, or at a special meeting
of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock and the Parity Preferred Stock
called as hereinafter provided. Whenever all arrears in dividends on the Series
C Preferred Stock and the Parity Preferred Stock then outstanding shall have
been paid and dividends thereon for the current Dividend Period shall have been
paid or declared and set apart for payment, then the right of the holders of the
Series C Preferred Stock and the Parity Preferred Stock to elect such additional
two directors shall cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the
vesting of such voting rights in the case of any similar future arrearages in
six quarterly dividends), and the terms of office of all persons elected as
directors by the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock and the Parity
Preferred Stock shall forthwith terminate and the number of the Board shall be
reduced accordingly. At any time after such voting power shall have been so
vested in the holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock and Parity Preferred
Stock, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any
holder of Series C Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the principal
office of the Corporation) shall, call a special meeting of the holders of the
Series C Preferred Stock and of the Parity Preferred Stock for the election of
the two directors to be elected by them as herein provided, such call to be made
by notice similar to that provided in the By-Laws of the Corporation for a
special meeting of the stockholders or as required by law. If any such special
meeting required to be called as above provided shall not be called by the
secretary within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of
shares of Series C Preferred Stock may call such meeting, upon the notice above
provided, and for that purpose shall have access to the stock books of the
Corporation. The directors elected at any such special meeting shall hold office
until the next annual meeting of the stockholders or special meeting held in
lieu thereof if such office shall not have previously terminated as above
provided.

      (c) So long as a Preferred Dividend Default shall continue, any vacancy in
the office of a Preferred Stock Director may be filled by written consent of the
Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if there is no such remaining
director, by the holders of a majority of the votes of the outstanding Series C
Preferred Stock and the other series of Parity Preferred Stock voting as a
single class. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed only for cause and
only by the holders of record of seventy-five percent (75%) of the votes of the
outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock voting separately as a class with
all other series of Parity Preferred Stock. The Preferred Stock Directors shall
each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.

      (d) So long as any shares of Series C Preferred Stock remain outstanding,
the Company shall not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of
at least a majority of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock outstanding at the
time, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at a meeting (such
series voting separately as a class), (i) authorize, create or issue, or
increase the authorized or issued amount of, any class or series of shares of
Capital Stock ranking prior to the Series C Preferred Stock with respect to the
payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company or reclassify any
authorized shares of Capital Stock of the Company into such Capital Stock, or
create, authorize or issue any obligation or security convertible or
exchangeable into or evidencing the right to purchase any such Capital Stock; or
(ii) amend, alter or repeal the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation
or this Certificate of Designations, whether by merger or consolidation or
otherwise (an "Event"), so as to materially and adversely affect any

                                      B-4

right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Series C Preferred Stock or
the holders thereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
none of the following shall be deemed to materially and adversely affect any
such right, preference, privilege or voting power or otherwise require the vote
or consent of the holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock: (X) the
occurrence of any Event so long as either (1) the Company is the surviving
entity and the Series C Preferred Stock remains outstanding with the terms
thereof materially unchanged or (2) interests in an entity having substantially
the same rights and terms as the Series C Preferred Stock are substituted for
the Series C Preferred Stock, (Y) any increase in the amount of the authorized
Preferred Stock or Common Stock or the creation or issuance of any other series
of Preferred Stock or Common Stock or any increase in the amount of authorized
or issued Common Stock, Series C Preferred Stock or any other series of
Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Series C
Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends and the distribution of
assets upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of
the Company, and (Z) the dissolution, liquidation and/or winding up of the
Company.

      (e) For purposes of the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, each
share of Series C Preferred Stock shall have one (1) vote per share, except that
when any other series of preferred stock shall have the right to vote with the
Series C Preferred Stock as a single class on any matter, then the Series C
Preferred Stock and such other series shall have with respect to such matters
one (1) vote per $25.00 of stated liquidation preference. Except as otherwise
required by applicable law or as set forth herein, the shares of Series C
Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights or powers and the consent of
the holders thereof shall not be required for the taking of any corporate
action.

V. Dividends

      (a) With respect to each Dividend Period and subject to the rights of the
holders of shares of Preferred Stock ranking senior to or on parity with the
Series C Preferred Stock, the holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock
shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board, out of
assets of the Company legally available for the payment of dividends, quarterly
cumulative cash dividends in an amount per share of Series C Preferred Stock
equal to the greater of (i) $21.25 and (ii) the amount of the regular quarterly
cash dividends for such Dividend Period upon the number of shares of Common
Stock (or portion thereof) into which such Series C Preferred Stock is then
convertible in accordance with Section VII hereof (but, with respect to any
Dividend Period ending after the Fifteenth Anniversary Date, no amount shall be
paid in respect of clause (ii) of this paragraph in respect of the portion of
such Dividend Period occurring after the Fifteenth Anniversary Date).
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the amount of
dividends described under each of clause (i) and (ii) of this paragraph for the
initial Dividend Period, or any other period shorter than a full Dividend
Period, shall be prorated and computed on the basis of twelve 30-day months and
a 360-day year. The dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock for each Dividend
Period shall, if and to the extent declared or authorized by the Board, be paid
in arrears (without interest or other amount) on the Dividend Payment Date with
respect thereto, and, if not paid on such date, shall accumulate, whether or not
there are funds legally available for the payment thereof and whether or not
such dividends are declared or authorized. The record date for dividends to the
holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock for any Dividend Period shall be
the same as the record date for the

                                      B-5

dividends to the holders of shares of Common Stock for such Dividend Period (or,
if no such record is set for the Common Stock, the fifteenth day of the calendar
month in which the applicable Dividend Payment Date falls). Accrued and unpaid
dividends for any past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time,
without reference to any Dividend Payment Date, to holders of record on such
date, not exceeding 45 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed
by the Board. Any dividend payment made on the shares of Series C Preferred
Stock shall first be credited against the earliest accumulated but unpaid
dividend due with respect to such shares which remains payable. No interest, or
sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be owing or payable in respect of any
dividend payment or payments on the Series C Preferred Stock, whether or not in
arrears.

      (b) No dividend on the Series C Preferred Stock shall be declared by the
Board or paid or set apart for payment by the Company at such time as the terms
and provisions of any agreement of the Company, including any agreement relating
to its indebtedness, prohibits such declaration, payment or setting apart for
payment or provides that such declaration, payment or setting apart for payment
would constitute a breach thereof, or a default thereunder, or if such
declaration or payment shall be restricted or prohibited by law. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock shall accumulate
whether or not any of the foregoing restrictions exist

      (c) Except as provided in subsection V(d) herein, so long as any shares of
Series C Preferred Stock are outstanding, (i) no dividends (other than in Common
Stock or other Capital Stock of the Company ranking junior to the Series C
Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and amounts upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Company) shall be declared or paid or set apart
for payment upon the Common Stock or any other class or series of Capital Stock
of the Company ranking, as to payment of dividends or amounts distributable upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company, on a parity with or
junior to the Series C Preferred Stock, for any period and (ii) no Common Stock
or other Capital Stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with the
Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends or amounts upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Company, shall be redeemed, purchased or
otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any monies be paid to or made
available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Capital Stock) by
the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for other Capital Stock of
the Company ranking junior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of
dividends and amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company
or by redemptions for the purpose of maintaining the Company's qualification as
a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for U.S. federal income tax purposes)
unless, in the case of either clause (i) or (ii), full cumulative dividends have
been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient
for the payment thereof set apart for such payment on the Series C Preferred
Stock for all Dividend Periods ending on or prior to the dividend payment date
for the Common Stock or such other class or series of Capital Stock or the date
of such redemption, purchase or other acquisition.

      (d) When dividends are not paid in full (or a sum sufficient for such full
payment is not set apart for such payment) upon the Series C Preferred Stock and
any other Capital Stock ranking on a parity as to payment of dividends with the
Series C Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon the Series C Preferred
Stock and any other Capital Stock ranking on a parity as to payment of dividends
with the Series C Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the

                                      B-6

amount of dividends declared per share of Series C Preferred Stock and such
other Capital Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that
accrued dividends per share on the Series C Preferred Stock and such other
Capital Stock (which shall not include any accumulation in respect of unpaid
dividends for prior dividend periods if such Capital Stock does not have a
cumulative dividend) bear to each other.

      (e) The holders of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to any dividends in excess of full cumulative dividends as described in
V(a) above.

VI.   Liquidation Preference

      (a) In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution
or winding-up of the Company, before any payment or distribution of the assets
of the Company (whether capital or surplus) shall be made to or set apart for
the holders of Common Stock or any other Capital Stock ranking junior to the
Series C Preferred Stock as to the distribution of assets upon the liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Company, the holders of shares of the Series C
Preferred Stock shall, with respect to each such share, be entitled to receive,
out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to stockholders
after payment or provision for payment of all debts and other liabilities of the
Company, an amount equal to the greater of (i) $1,000.00, plus an amount equal
to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) accrued and unpaid thereon
to the date of final distribution and (ii) the amount that a holder of such
share of Series C Preferred Stock would have received upon final distribution in
respect of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such share of Series
C Preferred Stock was convertible immediately prior to such date of final
distribution (but no amount shall be paid in respect of the foregoing clause
(ii) after the Fifteenth Anniversary Date). If, upon any such voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company, the assets of
the Company, or proceeds thereof, distributable among the holders of the shares
of Series C Preferred Stock, are insufficient to pay in full the preferential
amount aforesaid on the shares of Series C Preferred Stock and liquidating
payments on any other shares of any class or series of Capital Stock ranking, as
to payment of dividends and amounts upon the liquidation, dissolution or
winding-up of the Company, on a parity with the Series C Preferred Stock, then
such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of
shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any such other parity stock ratably in
accordance with the respective amounts that would be payable on such shares of
Series C Preferred Stock and such other stock if all amounts payable thereon
were paid in full. For the purposes of this Section VI, none of (i) a
consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another entity, (ii) a
merger of another entity with or into the Company, (iii) a statutory share
exchange by the Company or (iv) a sale, lease or conveyance of all or
substantially all of the Company's assets, properties or business shall be
deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company.

      (b) Written notice of such liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the
Company, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where,
the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given
by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days
prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the Series C
Preferred Stock at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall
appear on the stock transfer records of the Company.

                                      B-7

(c) After payment of the full amount of liquidating distributions to which
they are entitled, the holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall have
no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company.

VII.  Conversion. Holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall have the
right to convert all or a portion of such shares into shares of Common Stock, as
follows:

      (a) A holder of shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall have the right,
at such holder's option, at any time (subject to the proviso contained in the
immediately succeeding sentence), to convert any whole number of shares of
Series C Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, into shares of Common Stock. Each
share of Series C Preferred Stock shall be convertible into the number of shares
of Common Stock determined by dividing (i) the $1,000 face amount per each share
of Series C Preferred Stock plus an amount equal to all dividends (whether or
not earned or declared) accrued and unpaid thereon to the end of the last
Dividend Period ending prior to the conversion (but without duplication of the
dividends, if any, which the holder of such share of Series C Preferred Stock is
entitled to receive for such last Dividend Period pursuant to the third
paragraph of Section VII (b) hereof or in respect of the shares of Common Stock
into which such Series C Preferred Stock is converted) by (ii) a conversion
price of $50 per share of Common Stock (equivalent to an initial anticipated
conversion rate of 20 shares of Common Stock for each share of Series C
Preferred Stock), subject to adjustment as described in Section VII(c) hereof
(the "Conversion Price"); provided, however, that the right to convert shares of
Series C Preferred Stock may not be exercised after the Fifteenth Anniversary
Date. No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued upon any conversion of
shares of Series C Preferred Stock. Instead, the number of shares of Common
Stock to be issued upon each conversion shall be rounded to the nearest whole
number of shares of Common Stock.

      (b) To exercise the conversion right, the holder of each share of
Preferred Stock to be converted shall surrender the certificate representing
such share, duly endorsed or assigned to the Company or in blank, at the
principal office of the Company accompanied by a written notice to the Company
(the "Conversion Notice") indicating that the holder thereof elects to convert
such share of Series C Preferred Stock. Unless the shares issuable on conversion
are to be issued in the same name as the name in which such share of Series C
Preferred Stock is registered, each share of Series C Preferred Stock
surrendered for conversion shall be accompanied by instruments of transfer, in
form reasonably satisfactory to the Company, duly executed by the holder or such
holder's duly authorized attorney and an amount sufficient to pay any transfer
or similar tax (or evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Company demonstrating
that such taxes have been paid).

      As promptly as practicable after the surrender of certificates for shares
of Series C Preferred Stock and delivery of the Conversion Notice as aforesaid,
the Company shall issue and shall deliver at such office to such holder, or on
the holder's written order, a certificate or certificates for the number of
shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of such shares of Series C
Preferred Stock in accordance with the provisions of this Section VII. In
addition, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder a certificate or
certificates evidencing any shares of Series C Preferred Stock that were
evidenced by the certificate or certificates delivered to the Company in
connection with such conversion but that were not converted.

                                      B-8

A holder of shares of Series C Preferred Stock at the close of business on
the record date for any Dividend Period shall be entitled to receive the
dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding Dividend Payment Date
notwithstanding the conversion of such shares of Series C Preferred Stock
following such record date and prior to such Dividend Payment Date and shall
have no right to receive any dividend for such Dividend Period in respect of the
shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Series C Preferred Stock were
converted. Except as provided herein, the Company shall make no payment or
allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on converted shares
of Series C Preferred Stock or for dividends on the shares of Common Stock that
are issued upon such conversion.

      Each conversion shall be deemed to have been effected immediately prior to
the close of business on the date on which the certificates for shares of Series
C Preferred Stock shall have been surrendered and the Conversion Notice is
received by the Company as aforesaid, and the person or persons in whose name or
names any shares of Common Stock shall be issuable upon such conversion shall be
deemed to have become the holder or holders of record of such shares at such
time on such date, and such conversion shall be at the Conversion Price in
effect at such time and on such date unless the transfer books of the Company
shall be closed on that date, in which event such person or persons shall be
deemed to have become such holder or holders of record at the close of business
on the next succeeding day on which such transfer books are open, but such
conversion shall be at the Conversion Price in effect on the date on which such
shares have been surrendered and such notice received by the Company.

      (c) The Conversion Price shall be adjusted from time to time as follows:

            (i) If the Company shall, after the date on which any shares of
      Series C Preferred Stock are first issued (the "Issue Date"),
      (A) pay or make a dividend to holders of its Common Stock in Common Stock,
      (B) subdivide its outstanding Common Stock into a greater number of shares
      of Common Stock or (C) combine its outstanding Common Stock into a smaller
      number of shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Price in effect at the
      opening of business on the day following the date fixed for the
      determination of holders entitled to receive such dividend or at the
      opening of business on the day next following the day on which such
      subdivision, combination or reclassification becomes effective, as the
      case may be, shall be adjusted so that the holder of any share of Series C
      Preferred Stock thereafter surrendered for conversion shall be entitled to
      receive the number of shares of Common Stock that such holder would have
      owned or have been entitled to receive after the happening of any of the
      events described above had such share of Series C Preferred Stock been
      converted immediately prior to the record date in the case of a dividend
      or the effective date in the case of a subdivision, combination or
      reclassification. An adjustment made pursuant to this subsection (i) shall
      become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day next
      following the record date (except as provided in subsection (g) below) in
      the case of a dividend and shall become effective immediately after the
      opening of business on the day next following the effective date in the
      case of a subdivision, combination or reclassification.

            (ii) If the Company shall issue after the Issue Date rights, options
      or warrants to all holders of shares of Common Stock entitling them to
      subscribe for or purchase

                                      B-9

shares of Common Stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for
      shares of Common Stock) at a price per share less than the Fair Market
      Value per share of Common Stock on the record date for the determination
      of holders of shares of Common Stock entitled to receive such rights,
      options or warrants, then the Conversion Price in effect at the opening of
      business on the day next following such record date shall be adjusted to
      equal the price determined by multiplying (I) the Conversion Price in
      effect immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following
      the date fixed for such determination by (II) a fraction, the numerator of
      which shall be the sum of (A) the number of shares of Common Stock
      outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such
      determination and (B) the number of shares of Common Stock that the
      aggregate proceeds to the Company from the exercise of such rights,
      options or warrants for shares of Common Stock would purchase at such Fair
      Market Value, and the denominator of which shall be the sum of (A) the
      number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on
      the date fixed for such determination and (B) the number of additional
      shares of Common Stock offered for subscription or purchase pursuant to
      such rights, options or warrants. Such adjustment shall become effective
      immediately after the opening of business on the day next following such
      record date (except as provided in subsection (g) below). In determining
      whether any rights, options or warrants entitle the holders of shares of
      Common Stock to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at less
      than the Fair Market Value, there shall be taken into account any
      consideration received by the Company upon issuance and upon exercise of
      such rights, options or warrants, the value of such consideration, if
      other than cash, to be determined in good faith by the Board of the
      Company.

            (iii) If the Company shall distribute after the Issue Date to all
      holders of shares of Common Stock any other securities or evidences of its
      indebtedness or assets (excluding those rights, options and warrants
      referred to in and treated under subsection (ii) above, and excluding
      dividends paid exclusively in cash) (any of the foregoing being
      hereinafter in this subsection (iii) called the "Securities"), then in
      each case the Conversion Price shall be adjusted so that it shall equal
      the price determined by multiplying (I) the Conversion Price in effect
      immediately prior to the close of business on the date fixed for the
      determination of holders of shares of Common Stock entitled to receive
      such dividend by (II) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the Fair
      Market Value per share of Common Stock on the record date mentioned below
      less the then fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board
      of the Company) of the portion of the Securities so distributed applicable
      to one share of Common Stock, and the denominator of which shall be the
      Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the record date mentioned
      below. Such adjustment shall become effective immediately at the opening
      of business on the business day next following (except as provided in
      subsection (g) below) the record date for the determination of holders of
      shares of Common Stock entitled to receive such distribution. For the
      purposes of this subsection (iii), a dividend in the form of a Security,
      which is distributed not only to the holders of the shares of Common Stock
      on the date fixed for the determination of holders of shares of Common
      Stock entitled to such distribution of such Security, but also is
      distributed with each share of Common Stock delivered to a person
      converting a share of Series C Preferred Stock after such determination
      date, shall not require an adjustment of the Conversion Price pursuant to
      this subsection (iii); provided that on the date, if any, on which a
      person

                                      B-10

converting a share of Series C Preferred Stock would no longer be entitled
      to receive such Security with a share of Common Stock, a distribution of
      such Securities shall be deemed to have occurred, and the Conversion Price
      shall be adjusted as provided in this subsection (iii) (and such day shall
      be deemed to be "the date fixed for the determination of the holders of
      shares of Common Stock entitled to receive such dividend" and "the record
      date" within the meaning of the two preceding sentences).

            (iv) No adjustment in the Conversion Price shall be required unless
      such adjustment would require a cumulative increase or decrease of at
      least 1% in such price; provided, however, that any adjustments that by
      reason of this subsection (iv) are not required to be made shall be
      carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment until
      made; and provided, further, that any adjustment shall be required and
      made in accordance with the provisions of this Section VII (other than
      this subsection (iv)) not later than such time as may be required in order
      to preserve the tax-free nature of a dividend to the holders of shares of
      Common Stock. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section VII,
      the Company shall not be required to make any adjustment to the Conversion
      Price for the issuance of any Common Stock pursuant to any plan providing
      for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on securities of the
      Company and the investment of additional optional amounts in Common Stock
      under such plan. All calculations under this Section VII shall be made to
      the nearest cent (with $.005 being rounded upward) or to the nearest
      one-tenth of a share (with .05 of a share being rounded upward), as the
      case may be. Anything in this subsection (c) to the contrary
      notwithstanding, the Company shall be entitled, to the extent permitted by
      law, to make such reductions in the Conversion Price, in addition to those
      required by this subsection (c), as it in its discretion shall determine
      to be advisable in order that any Capital Stock dividend, subdivision of
      Capital Stock, reclassification or combination of Capital Stock,
      distribution of rights, options or warrants to purchase Capital Stock or
      securities, or a distribution consisting of other assets (other than cash
      distributions) hereafter made by the Company to its holders of Capital
      Stock shall not be taxable but any such adjustment shall not adversely
      affect the value of the Series C Preferred Stock.

      (d) If the Company shall be a party to any transaction (including, without
limitation, a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, self tender offer
for all or substantially all of the shares of Common Stock, sale of all or
substantially all of the Company's assets or recapitalization of the Common
Stock and excluding any transaction as to which subsection (c)(i) of this
Section VII applies) (each of the foregoing being referred to herein as a
"Transaction"), in each case as a result of which shares of Common Stock shall
be converted into the right to receive shares, stock, securities or other
property (including cash or any combination thereof), each share of Series C
Preferred Stock which is not converted into the right to receive shares, stock,
securities or other property in connection with such Transaction shall
thereafter be convertible into the kind and amount of shares, stock, securities
and other property (including cash or any combination thereof) receivable upon
the consummation of such Transaction by a holder of that number of shares of
Common Stock into which one share of Series C Preferred Stock was convertible
immediately prior to such Transaction, assuming such holder of Common Stock is
not a Person with which the Company consolidated or into which the Company
merged or which merged into the Company or to which such sale or transfer was
made, as the case may be (a "Constituent Person"), or an affiliate of a
Constituent Person. The Company shall not be a

                                      B-11

party to any Transaction unless the terms of such Transaction are consistent
with the provisions of this subsection (d), and it shall not consent or agree to
the occurrence of any Transaction until the Company has entered into an
agreement with the successor or purchasing entity, as the case may be, for the
benefit of the holders of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock that will
contain provisions enabling the holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock
that remain outstanding after such Transaction to convert into the consideration
received by holders of shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price in effect
immediately prior to such Transaction (with the holder having the option to
elect the type of consideration if a choice is offered in the Transaction). The
provisions of this subsection (d) shall similarly apply to successive
Transactions.

      (e) If:

            (i) the Company shall declare a dividend on the shares of Common
      Stock (other than a cash dividend) or there shall be a reclassification,
      subdivision or combination of Common Stock; or

            (ii) the Company shall authorize the granting to the holders of the
      shares of Common Stock of rights, options or warrants to subscribe for or
      purchase any Capital Stock of any class or any other rights, options or
      warrants; or

            (iii) there shall be any reclassification of the shares of Common
      Stock or any consolidation or merger to which the Company is a party and
      for which approval of any stockholders of the Company is required, or a
      statutory share exchange involving the conversion or exchange of shares of
      Common Stock into securities or other property, or a self tender offer by
      the Company for all or substantially all of the shares of Common Stock, or
      the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the
      Company as an entirety; or

            (iv) there shall occur the voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
      dissolution or winding-up of the Company,

then the Company shall cause to be mailed to the holders of the shares of Series
C Preferred Stock at their addresses as shown on the records of the Company, as
promptly as possible a notice stating (A) the date on which a record is to be
taken for the purpose of such distribution of rights, options or warrants, or,
if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the holders of shares of
Common Stock of record to be entitled to such distribution of rights, options or
warrants are to be determined or (B) the date on which such reclassification,
subdivision, combination, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up is expected to become effective, and the date as of
which it is expected that holders of shares of Common Stock of record shall be
entitled to exchange their shares of Common Stock for securities or other
property, if any, deliverable upon such reclassification, consolidation, merger,
sale, transfer, liquidation, dissolution or winding-up. Failure to give or
receive such notice or any defect therein shall not affect the legality or
validity of the proceedings described in this Section VII.

                                     B-12

(f) Whenever the Conversion Price is adjusted as herein provided, the
Company shall prepare a notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Price
setting forth the adjusted Conversion Price and the effective date such
adjustment becomes effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of
the Conversion Price to the holder of each share of Series C Preferred Stock at
such holder's last address as shown on the records of the Company.

      (g) In any case in which subsection (c) of this Section VII provides that
an adjustment shall become effective on the date next following the record date
for an event, the Company may defer until the occurrence of such event issuing
to the holder of any share of Series C Preferred Stock converted after such
record date and before the occurrence of such event the additional shares of
Common Stock issuable upon such conversion by reason of the adjustment required
by such event over and above the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such
conversion before giving effect to such adjustment.

      (h) For purposes of this Section VII, the number of shares of Common Stock
at any time outstanding shall not include any shares of Common Stock then owned
or held by or for the account of the Company. The Company shall not make any
distribution on shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company.

      (i) If any action or transaction would require adjustment of the
Conversion Price pursuant to more than one subsection of this Section VII, only
one adjustment shall be made, and such adjustment shall be the amount of
adjustment that has the highest absolute value.

      (j) If the Company shall take any action affecting the shares of Common
Stock, other than action described in this Section VII, that in the reasonable
judgment of the Company would materially and adversely affect the conversion
rights of the holders of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock, the Conversion
Price for the shares of Series C Preferred Stock may be adjusted, to the extent
permitted by law, in such manner, if any, and at such time, as the Company,
determines to be equitable in the circumstances.

      (k) The Company covenants that shares of Common Stock issued upon
conversion of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be validly issued,
fully paid and nonassessable. Prior to the delivery of any securities that the
Company shall be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the shares of Series C
Preferred Stock, the Company shall endeavor to comply with all federal and state
laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities
with, or any approval of or consent to the delivery thereof, by any governmental
authority.

      (l) The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or
transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common
Stock or other securities or property on conversion of the shares of Series C
Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not
be required to pay any tax that may be payable in respect of any transfer
involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock or other securities
or property in a name other than that of the holder of the Series C Preferred
Stock to be converted, and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and
until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Company the
amount of any such tax or established, to the reasonable satisfaction of the
Company, that such tax has been paid.

                                     B-13

(m) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein (but subject
to the provisions of Section VII (n) hereof), the Company agrees that it will
apply the adjustment provisions of this Section VII and any related provisions
as if the Series C Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding as of July 10,
2002. Thus, for example, if an event were to occur on December 31, 2002 that
would adjust the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of
Series C Preferred Stock would have been convertible had such shares of Series C
Preferred Stock been outstanding as of such date, but the Series C Preferred
Stock were not actually issued until December 31, 2003, then such adjustment
would be applied so that, upon such issuance (but subject to further adjustment
for subsequent events), the Series C Preferred Stock would be immediately
convertible into the number of shares of Common Stock into which the Series C
Preferred Stock would have been convertible had such shares of Series C
Preferred Stock been outstanding on December 31, 2002.

      (n) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the
adjustment provisions contained in this Section VII shall be applied so that
there is no duplication of adjustments made pursuant to any other document.

VIII. Ownership Limitations

      The shares of Series C Preferred Stock are subject to the restrictions on
transferability and ownership provisions described in Article IV of the
Certificate of Incorporation. The ownership limit as described in Article IV of
the Certificate of Incorporation (the "Ownership Limit") shall mean that
ownership of more than 7.5% of the value of the outstanding shares of Capital
Stock of the Company, including the Series C Preferred Stock, is restricted in
order to preserve the Company's status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax
purposes. Subject to certain limitations described in Article IV of the
Certificate of Incorporation, the Board may modify the Ownership Limit, though
the Ownership Limit may not be increased by the Board to more than 9.8%. In
addition, Article IV of the Certificate of Incorporation limits the ownership of
"Existing Holders" (the "Existing Holder Limit") and also limits transfers that
would cause the Company to become "closely held" within the meaning of Section
856(h) of the Code.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of
Designations to be executed in its name and on its behalf by its Executive Vice
President and attested to by its Secretary on this 10th day of July, 2002.

                                GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.,
                                a Delaware corporation

                                By:      /s/ Bernard Freibaum
                                         -------------------------------------
                                         Name:   Bernard Freibaum
                                         Title:  Executive Vice President

ATTEST:

By:      /s/ Marshall E. Eisenberg
         ------------------------------
         Name:   Marshall E. Eisenberg
         Title:  Secretary

                                     B-14

APPENDIX C

               CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS, PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS

                                       OF

              8.95% CUMULATIVE REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES G

                                       OF

                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

            PURSUANT TO SECTION 151 OF THE GENERAL CORPORATION LAW OF

                              THE STATE OF DELAWARE

      General Growth Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"),
hereby certifies that pursuant to the authority contained in Article IV of its
Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (the
"Certificate of Incorporation"), and in accordance with Section 151 of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL"), its Board of
Directors (the "Board"), on April 9, 2002, adopted the following resolution
creating a series of its preferred stock, par value $100 per share, liquidation
preference $1,000 per share, designated as the "8.95% Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock, Series G";

      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company is authorized, within the
limitations and restrictions stated in its Certificate of Incorporation, to
provide for the issuance of preferred stock in series and to establish the
number of shares to be included in such series and to fix the designation,
powers, preferences and rights of the shares of such series and the
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof; and

      WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board of Directors, pursuant to its
authority as aforesaid, to authorize and fix the terms of the preferred stock to
be designated the "8.95% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series G" and
the number of shares constituting such preferred stock.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that there is hereby authorized the 8.95%
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series G on the terms and with the
provisions herein set forth.

I.    Certain Definitions

      As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings
(with terms defined in the singular having comparable meanings when used in the
plural and vice versa), unless the context otherwise requires:

      "Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

                                     C-1

"Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day
on which state or federally chartered banking institutions in New York, New York
are not required to be open.

      "Capital Stock" shall mean Common Stock or Preferred Stock. The term
"Capital Stock" shall not include convertible debt securities.

      "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock, par value $.10 per share, of
the Company.

      "Company" shall mean General Growth Properties, Inc., a Delaware
corporation.

      "Dividend Period" shall mean quarterly dividend periods commencing on (and
including) the fifteenth day of each January, April, July and October of each
year and ending on (and including) the day preceding the first day of the next
succeeding Dividend Period.

      "GGPLP L.L.C." shall mean GGPLP L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability
company.

      "NYSE" shall mean the New York Stock Exchange.

      "Ownership Limitations" shall mean the restrictions on transferability and
ownership described in Article IV of the Certificate of Incorporation,
specifically, that ownership of more than 7.5% of the value of the outstanding
shares of Capital Stock of the Company, including the Series G Preferred Stock,
is restricted.

      "Redemption Date" shall mean any date fixed for redemption of the shares
of Series G Preferred Stock by the Company.

      "Preferred Stock" shall mean the preferred stock, $100 par value per
share, of the Company.

      "Series A Preferred Stock" shall mean the 7.25% Preferred Income Equity
Redeemable Stock, Series A of the Company.

      "Series B Preferred Stock" shall mean the 8.95% Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock, Series B.

      "Series B Preferred Units" shall mean the 8.95% Series B Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Units of membership interest in GGPLP L.L.C.

      "Series G Preferred Stock" shall mean the 8.95% Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock, Series G.

      "Transfer Agent" shall mean ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C., the
principal corporate trust office of which currently is located at 150 North
Wacker Drive, Suite 2120, Chicago, Illinois 60606, or such other agent or agents
of the Company as may be designated by the Board or its designee as the transfer
agent for the Series G Preferred Stock.

                                     C-2

II.   Designation and Number of Shares

      A series of preferred stock, designated the "8.95% Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock, Series G" (the "Series G Preferred Stock"), is hereby
established. The par value of the Series G Preferred Stock is $100 per share,
which is not a change in the par value per share of the Preferred Stock as set
forth in the Certificate of Incorporation. The liquidation preference per share
of the Series G Preferred Stock is $1,000. The authorized number of shares of
Series G Preferred Stock is 75,000. The Series G Preferred Stock shall not have
any relative, participating, optional or other special rights and powers other
than as set forth herein.

III.  Rank

      The Series G Preferred Stock, with respect to payment of dividends and
amounts upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of
the Company, shall be deemed to rank:

      (a) senior to all classes or series of Common Stock and to all Capital
Stock of the Company other than each series of Preferred Stock referred to in
Section III(b) or (c);

      (b) on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred
Stock, and each other series of Preferred Stock issued by the Company which
provides by its express terms that it ranks on parity with the Series G
Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or amounts upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company; and

      (c) junior to any class or series of Capital Stock that is issued by the
Company in accordance with Section IV(a).

IV.   Voting

      (a) So long as any shares of Series G Preferred Stock remain outstanding,
the Company shall not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of
at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the shares of Series G Preferred Stock
outstanding at the time, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at a
meeting (such series voting separately as a class), (i) authorize or create, or
increase the authorized or issued amount of, any class or series of shares of
Capital Stock ranking senior to the Series G Preferred Stock with respect to the
payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company or reclassify any Common
Stock into Capital Stock ranking senior to or on parity with the Series G
Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution of
assets upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of
the Company, (ii) issue additional shares of Series G Preferred Stock (other
than those issued in exchange for Series B Preferred Units pursuant to the
operating agreement of GGPLP L.L.C.) or (iii) amend, alter or repeal the
provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of
Designations, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise (an "Event"), so as
to negate the provisions of clause (i) or (ii) of this paragraph or materially
and adversely affect any special right, preference, privilege or voting power of
the holders of Series G Preferred Stock; provided, however, (A) with respect to
the occurrence of any of the Events set forth in clause (iii) of this

                                      C-3

paragraph, so long as shares of Series G Preferred Stock remain outstanding with
the terms thereof materially unchanged, taking into account that, upon the
occurrence of an Event, the Company may not be the surviving entity, the
occurrence of any such Event shall not be deemed to materially and adversely
affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of holders of the
Series G Preferred Stock and (B) any increase in the amount of the authorized
Preferred Stock or any series of the Preferred Stock or the creation or issuance
of any other series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or
junior to the Series G Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends and
the distribution of assets upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Company, shall not be deemed to materially and
adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.

      (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the
foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the
act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be
effected, all outstanding Series G Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or
called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been
deposited in trust to effect such redemption.

      (c) For purposes of the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, each
share of Series G Preferred Stock shall have one (1) vote per share. Except as
otherwise required by applicable law or as set forth herein, the shares of
Series G Preferred Stock shall not have any relative, participating, optional or
other voting rights and powers or the right to receive notice of meetings and
the consent of the holders thereof shall not be required for the taking of any
corporate action.

V.    Dividends.

      (a) The holders of shares of the Series G Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board, out of assets
legally available for the payment of dividends and subject to the right to
payment of holders of Capital Stock ranking senior to or on parity with the
Series G Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and amounts upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company, quarterly cumulative cash
dividends in an amount per share of Series G Preferred Stock equal to 8.95% of
the $1,000 liquidation preference thereof per annum (or $22.375 per quarter).
Dividends on the shares of the Series G Preferred Stock are cumulative and shall
accrue from and after the date of issuance thereof (the "Series G Initial
Issuance Date"), whether or not in any Dividend Period or Periods there shall be
funds of the Company legally available for the payment of such dividends.
Dividends on the shares of the Series G Preferred Stock shall be payable in
arrears quarterly when, as and if declared by the Board, on the fifteenth day of
each January, April, July and October or, if not a Business Day, the next
succeeding Business Day, beginning on the first such date following the Initial
Series G Issuance Date (each, a "Dividend Payment Date"). Each such dividend
shall be payable in arrears to holders of record of shares of the Series G
Preferred Stock, as such holders appear in the stock records of the Company at
the close of business on the applicable record date, which shall be the first
day of the calendar month in which the applicable Dividend Payment Date falls or
such other date designated by the Board for the payment of dividends that is not
more than 30 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a
"Dividend Record Date"). Accrued and unpaid dividends for any past Dividend
Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any Dividend
Payment Date, to holders of record on

                                      C-4
 
such date, not exceeding 45 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be
fixed by the Board.

      (b) The amount of dividends payable per share of Series G Preferred Stock
for each full Dividend Period shall equal the quotient of 8.95% of the $1,000
liquidation preference thereof divided by four (or $22.375). The amount of
dividends payable for the initial Dividend Period, or any other period shorter
or longer than a full Dividend Period, on the Series G Preferred Stock, shall be
prorated and computed on the basis of twelve 30-day months and a 360-day year.
Holders of shares of Series G Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any
dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of cumulative
dividends, as provided in this Section V, on the Series G Preferred Stock. Any
dividend payment made on the Series G Preferred Stock shall first be credited
against the earliest accumulated but unpaid dividend due with respect to such
shares which remains payable. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest,
shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on the Series G
Preferred Stock that may be in arrears.

      (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, dividends on the Series G Preferred
Stock shall accumulate whether or not there are funds legally available for the
payment thereof and whether or not such distributions are authorized.

      (d) Except as provided in Section V(e) herein, so long as any shares of
Series G Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividends (other than in Common
Stock or other Capital Stock of the Company ranking junior to the Series G
Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and amounts upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Company) shall be declared or paid or set apart
for payment upon the Common Stock or any other class or series of Capital Stock
of the Company ranking, as to payment of dividends or amounts distributable upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company, on a parity with or
junior to the Series G Preferred Stock, for any period nor shall any Common
Stock or other Capital Stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity
with the Series G Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends or amounts upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company, be redeemed, purchased or
otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any monies be paid to or made
available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Capital Stock) by
the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for other Capital Stock of
the Company ranking junior to the Series G Preferred Stock as to payment of
dividends and amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company
or by redemptions for the purpose of maintaining the Company's qualification as
a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for U.S. federal income tax purposes)
unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and
paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart for such
payment on the Series G Preferred Stock for all Dividend Periods ending on or
prior to the dividend payment date for such other class or series of capital
stock or the date of such redemption, purchase or other acquisition, as the case
may be.

      (e) When dividends are not paid in full (or a sum sufficient for such full
payment is not set apart for such payment) upon the Series G Preferred Stock and
any other Capital Stock ranking on a parity as to payment of dividends with the
Series G Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon the Series G Preferred
Stock and any other Capital Stock ranking on a parity as to payment of dividends
with the Series G Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the

                                       C-5

amount of dividends declared per share of Series G Preferred Stock and such
other Capital Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that
accumulated dividends per share on the Series G Preferred Stock and such other
Capital Stock (which shall not include any accumulation in respect of unpaid
dividends for prior dividend periods if such Capital Stock does not have a
cumulative dividend) bear to each other.

VI.   Liquidation Preference.

      (a) In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution
or winding-up of the Company and subject to the rights of holders of Capital
Stock ranking senior to the Series G Preferred Stock as to the distribution of
assets upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company, before
any payment or distribution of the assets of the Company (whether capital or
surplus) shall be made to or set apart for the holders of Common Stock or any
other Capital Stock ranking junior to the Series G Preferred Stock as to the
distribution of assets upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the
Company, the holders of shares of the Series G Preferred Stock shall be entitled
to receive out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to
stockholders remaining after payment or provisions for payment of all debts and
other liabilities of the Company a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share,
plus an amount equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared)
accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution to such holders;
but such holders shall not be entitled to any further payment. If, upon any such
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company,
the assets of the Company, or proceeds thereof, distributable among the holders
of the shares of Series G Preferred Stock, are insufficient to pay in full the
preferential amount aforesaid on the shares of Series G Preferred Stock and
liquidating payments on any other shares of any class or series of Capital Stock
ranking, as to payment of amounts upon the liquidation, dissolution or
winding-up of the Company, on a parity with the Series G Preferred Stock, then
such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of
shares of Series G Preferred Stock and any such other parity stock ratably in
accordance with the respective amounts that would be payable on such shares of
Series G Preferred Stock and such other stock if all amounts payable thereon
were paid in full. For the purposes of this Section VI, none of (i) a
consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another entity, (ii) a
merger of another entity with or into the Company, (iii) a statutory share
exchange by the Company or (iv) a sale, lease or conveyance of all or
substantially all of the Company's assets, properties or business shall be
deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company.

      (b) Written notice of such liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the
Company, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where,
the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given
by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days
prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the Series G
Preferred Stock at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall
appear on the stock transfer records of the Company.

      (c) After payment of the full amount of liquidating distributions to which
they are entitled, the holders of Series G Preferred Stock shall have no right
or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company.

                                       C-6

VII. Redemption.

      (a) General. The shares of Series G Preferred Stock are not redeemable
prior to April 17, 2007. To ensure that the Company remains a qualified REIT for
U.S. federal income tax purposes, however, the Series G Preferred Stock shall be
subject to the provisions of Article IV of the Certificate of Incorporation
pursuant to which Series G Preferred Stock owned by a stockholder (i) in excess
of the Ownership Limit or the Existing Holder Limit (as defined in Section VIII
hereof) or (ii) that would cause the Company to become "closely held" within the
meaning of Section 856(h) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
"Code") shall automatically be transferred to a Trust (as defined in Article IV
of the Certificate of Incorporation) and the Company shall have the right to
purchase such shares, as provided in Article IV of the Certificate of
Incorporation, notwithstanding the first sentence of this paragraph (a).

      (b) Cash Redemption Right. On and after April 17, 2007, the Company, at
its option, upon giving notice as provided below, may redeem the Series G
Preferred Stock, in whole or from time to time in part, at the redemption price
per share of Series G Preferred Stock of $1,000, plus, in each case, all
dividends accumulated and unpaid on such Series G Preferred Stock to the date of
such redemption (the "Redemption Right").

      (c)   Limitations on Redemption.

            (i) If fewer than all of the outstanding shares of Series G
Preferred Stock are to be redeemed pursuant to the Redemption Right, the shares
to be redeemed shall be determined pro rata or by lot. If such redemption is to
be by lot and, as a result of such redemption, (i) any holder of Series G
Preferred Stock would become a holder of a number of shares of Series G
Preferred Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit or the Existing Holder Limit or
(ii) the Company would become "closely held" within the meaning of Section
856(h) of the Code because such holder's Series G Preferred Stock were not
redeemed, or were only redeemed in part, then, except as otherwise provided in
the Certificate of Incorporation, the Company will redeem the requisite number
of shares of Series G Preferred Stock of such holder such that the holder of
such shares (i) will not hold in excess of the Ownership Limit or the Existing
Holder Limit subsequent to such redemption or (ii) will not cause the Company to
become "closely held" within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code.

            (ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
unless full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of Series G Preferred
Stock shall have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and
a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart for payment for all Dividend
Periods ending on or prior to the date of redemption or purchase, no shares of
Series G Preferred Stock shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of
Series G Preferred Stock are simultaneously redeemed; provided, however, that
the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of Series G
Preferred Stock pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same terms
to holders of all outstanding shares of Series G Preferred Stock. In addition,
unless full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of Series G Preferred
Stock shall have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and
a sum sufficient for payment thereof set apart for payment for all past Dividend
Periods, the Company shall not purchase or otherwise acquire directly or

                                       C-7

indirectly any Series G Preferred Stock, or any shares of any class or series of
Capital Stock of the Company ranking, as to payment of dividends or amounts
distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company, junior
to or on a parity with the Series G Preferred Stock (except by conversion into
or exchange for Common Stock or other Capital Stock of the Company ranking
junior to or on a parity with the Series G Preferred Stock as to payment of
dividends or amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company
and except for redemptions for the purposes of maintaining the Company's
qualification as a REIT).

            (iii) Immediately prior to any redemption of any Series G Preferred
Stock, the Company shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and unpaid dividends with
respect thereto through the Redemption Date, unless a Redemption Date falls
after a Dividend Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Dividend
Payment Date, in which case each holder of shares of Series G Preferred Stock at
the close of business on such Dividend Record Date shall be entitled to the
dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding Dividend Payment Date
notwithstanding the redemption of such shares on or prior to such Dividend
Payment Date. Except as provided above, the Company will make no payment, or
allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on Series G Preferred
Stock for which a notice of redemption has been given.

      (d)   Procedures for Redemption.

            (i) Notice of redemption pursuant to the Redemption Right shall be
mailed, not less than 20 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to
each holder of record of shares of Series G Preferred Stock to be redeemed,
notifying such holder of the Company's election to redeem such shares. Such
notice shall be provided by first class mail, postage prepaid, at such holder's
address as the same appears on the stock records of the Company, or by
publication in The Wall Street Journal or The New York Times, or, if neither
such newspaper is then being published, any other daily newspaper of national
circulation. If the Company elects to provide such notice by publication, it
shall also promptly mail notice of such redemption to holders of the shares of
Series G Preferred Stock to be redeemed. No failure to give such notice or any
defect thereto or in the mailing thereof, to any particular holder, shall affect
the sufficiency of notice or the validity of the proceedings for the redemption
of any shares of Series G Preferred Stock with respect to any other holder.

            (ii) In addition to any information required by law or by the
applicable rules of any exchange upon which the Series G Preferred Stock may be
listed or admitted to trading, such notice shall state, as appropriate: (i) the
Redemption Date, (ii) the cash redemption price per share of Series G Preferred
Stock, (iii) the number of shares of Series G Preferred Stock to be redeemed
from such holder (and, if fewer than all the shares of Series G Preferred Stock
are to be redeemed from such holder, the number of shares to be redeemed from
such holder), (iv) the place or places where certificates for shares of such
Series G Preferred Stock are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption
price in cash and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to
accumulate on such Redemption Date.

            (iii) On or after the Redemption Date, each holder of shares of
Series G Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall present and surrender the
certificates representing his Series G Preferred Stock to the Company at the
place designated in the notice of redemption and thereupon the redemption price
of such shares shall be paid to or on the order of the person

                                       C-8

whose name appears on such certificate representing shares of Series G Preferred
Stock as the owner thereof and each surrendered certificate shall be canceled.
If fewer than all the shares represented by any such certificate representing
shares of Series G Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, a new certificate shall
be issued representing the unredeemed shares.

            (iv) From and after the Redemption Date (unless the Company fails to
make available an amount in cash necessary to effect such redemption), all
dividends on the Series G Preferred Stock designated for redemption in such
notice shall cease to accumulate and all rights of the holders thereof, except
the right to receive the redemption price (including all accumulated and unpaid
dividends up to the Redemption Date), shall cease and terminate and such shares
shall not thereafter be transferred (except with the consent of the Company) on
the Company's books, all rights of the holders of shares of the Series G
Preferred Stock shall cease (except the right to receive the cash payable upon
such redemption) and such shares shall not be deemed to be outstanding for any
purpose whatsoever.

      The Company's obligation to provide cash in accordance with this Section
VII shall be deemed fulfilled if, on or before the Redemption Date, the Company
elects to deposit the cash necessary for redemption of the shares of Series G
Preferred Stock so called with a bank or trust company that has, or is an
affiliate of a bank or trust company that has, a capital and surplus of at least
$50,000,000, in trust, with irrevocable instructions that such cash be applied
to the redemption of the shares of Series G Preferred Stock so called for
redemption. No interest shall accrue for the benefit of the holders of Series G
Preferred Stock to be redeemed on any cash so set aside by the Company. Any such
cash unclaimed at the end of two years from the Redemption Date shall revert to
the general funds of the Company. If the Company elects to deposit the cash
necessary for redemption with a bank or trust company, in accordance with this
subsection (d)(iv), the redemption notice to holders of the shares of Series G
Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall (i) state the date of such deposit, (ii)
specify the office of such bank or trust company as the place of redemption and
(iii) require such holders to surrender the certificates representing such
shares at such place on or about the date fixed in such redemption notice (which
may not be later than the Redemption Date) against payment of the redemption
price (including all accumulated and unpaid dividends to the Redemption Date).

      (e) Status of Redeemed Shares of Series G Preferred Stock. Subject to the
provisions of Section III, any shares of Series G Preferred Stock that shall at
any time have been redeemed shall, after such redemption, have the status of
authorized but unissued Preferred Stock, without designation as to series until
such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the
Board.

VIII. Ownership Limitations.

      The shares of Series G Preferred Stock are subject to the restrictions on
transferability and ownership provisions described in Article IV of the
Certificate of Incorporation. The ownership limit as described in Article IV of
the Certificate of Incorporation (the "Ownership Limit") shall mean that
ownership of more than 7.5% of the value of the outstanding shares of Capital
Stock of the Company, including the Series G Preferred Stock, is restricted in
order to preserve the Company's status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax
purposes. Subject to

                                       C-9

certain limitations described in Article IV of the Certificate of Incorporation,
the Board may modify the Ownership Limit, though the Ownership Limit may not be
increased by the Board to more than 9.8%. In addition, Article IV of the
Certificate of Incorporation limits the ownership of "Existing Holders" (the
"Existing Holder Limit") and also limits transfers that would cause the Company
to become "closely held" within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the provisions hereof
shall not limit or prohibit the purchase by the Company of shares of any class
or series of Capital Stock pursuant to Article IV of the Certificate of
Incorporation.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of
Designations to be executed in its name and on its behalf and attested to by its
duly authorized officers on this 16th day of April, 2002.

                                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

                                         By: /s/ Bernard Freibaum
                                             ----------------------------------
                                             Name:  Bernard Freibaum
                                             Title: Executive Vice President

                                      C-10

APPENDIX D

               CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS, PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS

                                       OF

               7% CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES H

                                       OF

                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

     Pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State Of
                                    Delaware

      General Growth Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"),
hereby certifies that the following resolution creating a series of its
preferred stock, par value $100 per share, liquidation preference $1,000 per
share, designated as the 7% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series H,
has been adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") pursuant
to the authority contained in Article IV of its Second Amended and Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (the "Certificate of Incorporation"),
and in accordance with Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State
of Delaware (the "DGCL") and by the Preferred Stock Pricing Committee of the
Board (the "Pricing Committee") pursuant to the authority conferred on the
Pricing Committee by the Board in accordance with Section 141(c) of the DGCL.

      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company is authorized, within the
limitations and restrictions stated in its Certificate of Incorporation, to
provide for the issuance of preferred stock in series and to establish the
number of shares to be included in such series and to fix the designation,
powers, preferences and rights of the shares of such series and the
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof; and

      WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board of Directors and the Pricing
Committee, pursuant to its authority as aforesaid, to authorize and fix the
terms of the preferred stock to be designated the "7% Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock, Series H" and the number of shares constituting such preferred
stock.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that there is hereby authorized the 7%
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series H on the terms and with the
provisions herein set forth:

I.    Certain Definitions

      As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings
(with terms defined in the singular having comparable meanings when used in the
plural and vice versa), unless the context otherwise requires:

                                       D-1

"Capital Stock" shall mean Common Stock or Preferred Stock. The term
"Capital Stock" shall not include convertible debt securities.

      "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock, par value $.10 per share, of
the Company.

      "Dividend Payment Date" shall mean, with respect to any Dividend Period,
the payment date for the dividend declared by the Company on its shares of
Common Stock for such Dividend Period or, if no such payment date is
established, the last business day of the first full month following such
Dividend Period.

      "Dividend Period" shall mean the quarterly period that is then the
dividend period with respect to the Common Stock or, if no such dividend period
is established, the calendar quarter shall be the Dividend Period; provided that
(a) the initial Dividend Period with respect to any share of Series H Preferred
Stock shall commence on the date of issuance thereof and end on and include the
last day of the then current quarterly period that is then the dividend period
with respect to the Common Stock and (b) the Dividend Period in which the final
liquidation payment is made shall commence on the first day following the
immediately preceding Dividend Period and end on the date of such final
liquidation payment.

      "Fair Market Value" shall mean the average of the daily Closing Price
during the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the earlier of (i) the
business day immediately preceding the day in question with respect to the
issuance or distribution requiring such computation and (ii) the day before the
"ex" date with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such
computation. The term "'ex' date," when used with respect to any issuance or
distribution, means the first day on which shares of Common Stock trade regular
way, without the right to receive such issuance or distribution, on the exchange
or in the market, as the case may be, used to determine that day's Closing
Price.

      "Ownership Limitations" shall mean the restrictions on transferability and
ownership described in Article IV of the Certificate of Incorporation,
specifically, that ownership of more than 7.5% of the value of the outstanding
shares of Capital Stock of the Company, including the Series H Preferred Stock,
is restricted.

      "Preferred Stock" shall mean the preferred stock, par value $100 per
share, of the Company.

      "Relevant Dividend Periods" shall mean (a) each of the three (3)
consecutive Dividend Periods the last of which ends during the 90-day period
referred to in the last paragraph of Section VII(b) and (b) the next immediately
following Dividend Period after the third Dividend Period described in clause
(a) above.

      "Series A Preferred Stock" shall mean the Preferred Stock designated as
7.25% Preferred Income Equity Redeemable Stock, Series A.

      "Series B Preferred Stock" shall mean the Preferred Stock designated as
8.95% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B.

                                       D-2

"Series C Preferred Stock" shall mean the Preferred Stock designated as
8.5% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C.

      "Series D Preferred Stock" shall mean the Preferred Stock designated as
8.75% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series D.

      "Series E Preferred Stock" shall mean the Preferred Stock designated as
8.95% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series E.

      "Series F Preferred Stock" shall mean the Preferred Stock designated as
8.75% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series F.

      "Series G Preferred Stock" shall mean the Preferred Stock designated as
8.95% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series G.

      "Series C Preferred Units" shall mean the 7% Series C Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Units of limited partnership in GGP Limited Partnership, a
Delaware limited  partnership.

      "Twelfth Anniversary Date" shall mean the twelfth anniversary of the date
hereof. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings
set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation.

II.   Designation and Number of Shares

      A series of Preferred Stock, designated the "7% Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock, Series H" (the "Series H Preferred Stock"), is hereby
established. The par value of the Series H Preferred Stock is $100 per share,
which is not a change in the par value of the shares of Preferred Stock as set
forth in the Certificate of Incorporation. The authorized number of shares of
Series H Preferred Stock shall be 41,131.

III.  Rank

      The Series H Preferred Stock, with respect to payment of dividends and
amounts upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of
the Company, shall be deemed to rank:

      (a) senior to all classes or series of Common Stock and to all Capital
Stock the terms of which provide that such Capital Stock shall rank junior to
the Series H Preferred Stock;

      (b) on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, the Series B Preferred
Stock, the Series C Preferred Stock, the Series D Preferred Stock, the Series E
Preferred Stock, the Series F Preferred Stock, the Series G Preferred Stock and
each other series of Preferred Stock issued by the Company which does not
provide by its express terms that it ranks junior or senior in right of payment
to the Series H Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or amounts
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up; and

                                       D-3

(c) junior to any class or series of Capital Stock issued by the Company
that ranks senior to the Series H Preferred Stock and has been approved in
accordance with Section IV(b).

IV.   Voting

      (a) Holders of shares of the Series H Preferred Stock shall not have any
voting rights, except as required by applicable law and as described below in
this Section IV.

      (b) So long as any shares of Series H Preferred Stock remain outstanding,
the Company shall not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of
at least a majority of the shares of Series H Preferred Stock outstanding at the
time, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at a meeting (such
series voting separately as a class), (i) authorize, create or issue, or
increase the authorized or issued amount of, any class or series of shares of
Capital Stock ranking senior to the Series H Preferred Stock with respect to the
payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company or reclassify any
authorized shares of Capital Stock of the Company into such Capital Stock, or
create, authorize or issue any obligation or security convertible or
exchangeable into or evidencing the right to purchase any such Capital Stock; or
(ii) amend, alter or repeal the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation
or this Certificate of Designations, whether by merger or consolidation or
otherwise (an "Event"), so as to negate the provisions of clause (i) or (ii) of
this paragraph or so as to materially and adversely affect any special right,
preference, privilege or voting power of the Series H Preferred Stock or the
holders thereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, each
of the following shall be deemed not to (i) materially and adversely affect any
special right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Series H Preferred
Stock or (ii) otherwise require the vote or consent of the holders of shares of
Series H Preferred Stock: (X) the occurrence of any merger, consolidation,
entity conversion, share exchange, recapitalization of the Capital Stock or
other business combination or reorganization so long as either (1) the Company
is the surviving entity and the Series H Preferred Stock remains outstanding
with the terms thereof materially unchanged or (2) if the Company is not the
surviving entity in such transaction, interests in an entity having
substantially the same rights and terms with respect to rights to dividends,
voting, redemption and conversion as the Series H Preferred Stock are exchanged
or substituted for the Series H Preferred Stock without any income, gain, or
loss expected to be recognized by the holder upon the exchange or substitution
for federal income tax purposes (and with the terms of the Common Stock or such
other securities for which the Series H Preferred Stock (or the substitute or
exchanged security therefor) is convertible or redeemable materially the same
with respect to rights to dividends, voting, and redemption), (Y) any increase
in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock or Common Stock or the creation
or issuance of any other series of Preferred Stock or Common Stock or any
increase in the amount of authorized or issued Common Stock, Series H Preferred
Stock or any other series of Preferred Stock, in each case so long as such
Capital Stock ranks on a parity with or junior to the Series H Preferred Stock
with respect to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company,
and (Z) the dissolution, liquidation and/or winding up of the Company.

      (c) The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the
time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required
shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Series H Preferred Stock shall have
been converted or redeemed.

                                       D-4

(d) For purposes of the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, each
share of Series H Preferred Stock shall have one (1) vote per share. Except as
otherwise required by applicable law or as set forth herein, the shares of
Series H Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights or powers and the
consent of the holders thereof shall not be required for the taking of any
corporate action.

V.    Dividends

      (a) With respect to each Dividend Period and subject to the rights of the
holders of shares of Preferred Stock ranking senior to or on parity with the
Series H Preferred Stock, the holders of shares of Series H Preferred Stock
shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board, out of
assets of the Company legally available for the payment of dividends, quarterly
cumulative cash dividends in an amount per share of Series H Preferred Stock
equal to the greater of (i) $17.50 (the "Base Quarterly Dividend") and (ii) the
amount of the regular quarterly cash dividends for such Dividend Period upon the
number of shares of Common Stock (or portion thereof) into which such share of
Series H Preferred Stock is then convertible in accordance with Section VII
hereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the amount of
dividends described under each of clause (i) and (ii) of this paragraph for the
initial Dividend Period, or any other period shorter than a full Dividend
Period, shall be prorated and computed on the basis of twelve 30-day months and
a 360-day year. Such dividends shall, with respect to each share of Series H
Preferred Stock, accrue from its issue date, whether or not in, or with respect
to, any Dividend Period or Periods (A) the dividends described above are
declared, (B) the Company is contractually prohibited from paying such dividends
or (C) there shall be assets of the Company legally available for the payment of
such dividends. The dividends on the Series H Preferred Stock for each Dividend
Period shall, if and to the extent declared or authorized by the Board, be paid
in arrears (without interest or other amount) on the Dividend Payment Date with
respect thereto, and, if not paid on such date, shall accumulate, whether or not
in, or with respect to, any Dividend Period or Periods (X) the dividends are
declared, (Y) the Company is contractually prohibited from paying such dividends
or (Z) there shall be assets of the Company legally available for the payment of
such dividends. The record date for dividends to the holders of shares of Series
H Preferred Stock for any Dividend Period shall be the same as the record date
for the dividends to the holders of shares of Common Stock for such Dividend
Period (or, if no such record date is set for the Common Stock, the fifteenth
day of the calendar month in which the applicable Dividend Payment Date falls if
prior to such Dividend Payment Date; otherwise, the fifteenth day of the
immediately preceding calendar month). Accumulated and unpaid dividends for any
past Dividend Periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to
any Dividend Payment Date, to holders of record on such date, not exceeding 45
days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board. Any
dividend payment made upon shares of Series H Preferred Stock shall first be
credited against the earliest accrued but unpaid dividends due with respect to
such shares of Series H Preferred Stock which remains payable. No interest, or
sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be owing or payable in respect of any
dividend payment or payments on the Series H Preferred Stock, whether or not in
arrears.

      (b) No dividend on the Series H Preferred Stock shall be declared by the
Board or paid or set apart for payment by the Company at such time as the terms
and provisions of any bona fide agreement of the Company, including any
agreement relating to its bona fide

                                       D-5

indebtedness, prohibits such declaration, payment or setting apart for payment
or provides that such declaration, payment or setting apart for payment would
constitute a breach thereof, or a default thereunder, or if such declaration or
payment shall be restricted or prohibited by law (and such failure to pay
dividends on the Series H Preferred Stock shall prohibit other dividends by the
Company as described in Sections V(c) or (d) hereof). Notwithstanding the
foregoing, dividends on the Series H Preferred Stock shall accumulate whether or
not any of the foregoing restrictions exist.

      (c) Except as provided in subsection V(d) herein, so long as any shares of
Series H Preferred Stock are outstanding, (i) no dividends (other than in Common
Stock or other Capital Stock of the Company ranking junior to the Series H
Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and amounts upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Company) shall be declared or paid or set apart
for payment upon the Common Stock or any other class or series of Capital Stock
of the Company ranking, as to payment of dividends or amounts distributable upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company, on a parity with or
junior to the Series H Preferred Stock, for any period and (ii) no Common Stock
or other Capital Stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with the
Series H Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends or amounts upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Company, shall be redeemed, purchased or
otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any monies be paid to or made
available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Capital Stock) by
the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for other Capital Stock of
the Company ranking junior to the Series H Preferred Stock as to payment of
dividends and amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company
or by redemptions for the purpose of maintaining the Company's qualification as
a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for U.S. federal income tax purposes)
unless, in the case of either clause (i) or (ii), full cumulative dividends have
been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient
for the payment thereof set apart for such payment on the Series H Preferred
Stock for all Dividend Periods ending on or prior to the dividend payment date
for the Common Stock or such other class or series of Capital Stock or the date
of such redemption, purchase or other acquisition.

      (d) When dividends are not paid in full (or a sum sufficient for such full
payment is not set apart for such payment) upon the Series H Preferred Stock and
any other Capital Stock ranking on a parity as to payment of dividends with the
Series H Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon the Series H Preferred
Stock and any other Capital Stock ranking on a parity as to payment of dividends
with the Series H Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount
of dividends declared per share of Series H Preferred Stock and such other
Capital Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued
and unpaid dividends per share on the Series H Preferred Stock and such other
Capital Stock (which shall not include any accumulation in respect of unpaid
dividends for prior dividend periods if such Capital Stock does not have a
cumulative dividend) bear to each other.

      (e) The holders of the shares of Series H Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to any dividends in excess of full cumulative dividends as described in
V(a) above.

                                       D-6

VI.   Liquidation Preference

      (a) In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution
or winding-up of the Company, before any payment or distribution of the assets
of the Company (whether capital or surplus) shall be made to or set apart for
the holders of Common Stock or any other Capital Stock ranking junior to the
Series H Preferred Stock as to the distribution of assets upon the liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Company, the holders of shares of the Series H
Preferred Stock shall, with respect to each such share, be entitled to receive,
out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to stockholders
after payment or provision for payment of all debts and other liabilities of the
Company and subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of Preferred
Stock ranking senior to or on parity with the Series H Preferred Stock with
respect to payment of amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the
Company, an amount equal to the greater of (i) $1,000.00, plus an amount equal
to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) accrued and unpaid thereon
to the date of final distribution (including all accumulated and unpaid
distributions) and (ii) the amount that a holder of such share of Series H
Preferred Stock would have received upon final distribution in respect of the
number of shares of Common Stock into which such share of Series H Preferred
Stock (including all accumulated and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or
declared) with respect thereto) was convertible immediately prior to such date
of final distribution. If, upon any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Company, the assets of the Company, or proceeds
thereof, distributable among the holders of the shares of Series H Preferred
Stock, are insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid on the
shares of Series H Preferred Stock and liquidating payments on any other shares
of any class or series of Capital Stock ranking, as to payment of dividends and
amounts upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company, on a
parity with the Series H Preferred Stock, then such assets, or the proceeds
thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of shares of Series H Preferred
Stock and any such other parity stock ratably in accordance with the respective
amounts that would be payable on such shares of Series H Preferred Stock and
such other stock if all amounts payable thereon were paid in full. For the
purposes of this Section VI, none of (i) a consolidation or merger of the
Company with or into another entity, (ii) a merger of another entity with or
into the Company, (iii) a statutory share exchange by the Company or (iv) a
sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all of the Company's assets,
properties or business shall be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or
winding-up of the Company.

      (b) Written notice of such liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the
Company, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where,
the amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given
by first class mail, postage pre-paid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days
prior to the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the Series H
Preferred Stock at the respective addresses of such holders as the same shall
appear on the stock transfer records of the Company.

      (c) After payment of the full amount of liquidating distributions to which
they are entitled as provided in Section VI(a) above, the holders of shares of
Series H Preferred Stock shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining
assets of the Company.

VII. Conversion. Holders of shares of Series H Preferred Stock shall have the
right to convert all or a portion of such shares into shares of Common Stock, as
follows:

                                       D-7

(a) A holder of shares of Series H Preferred Stock shall have the right,
at such holder's option, at any time, to convert any whole number of shares of
Series H Preferred Stock, into fully paid and non-assessable shares of Common
Stock; provided, however, that the conversion right may not be exercised at any
one time by a holder of shares of Series H Preferred Stock with respect to less
than 50 shares of Series H Preferred Stock (or all the shares of Series H
Preferred Stock then owned by such holder if such holder owns less than 50
shares of Series H Preferred Stock). Each share of Series H Preferred Stock
shall be convertible into the number of shares of Common Stock determined by
dividing (i) the $1,000 base liquidation preference per each share of Series H
Preferred Stock, plus an amount equal to all accumulated and unpaid dividends
(whether or not earned or declared) with respect thereto by (ii) a conversion
price of $61.6575 per share of Common Stock (equivalent to an initial
anticipated conversion rate of 16.2186 shares of Common Stock for each share of
Series H Preferred Stock), subject to adjustment as described in Section VII(c)
hereof (the "Conversion Price"). No fractional shares of Common Stock will be
issued upon any conversion of shares of Series H Preferred Stock. Instead, the
number of shares of Common Stock to be issued upon each conversion shall be
rounded down to the nearest whole number of shares of Common Stock, and the
Company shall pay cash for the fractional share based on the Fair Market Value.

      (b) To exercise the conversion right, the holder of each share of
Preferred Stock to be converted shall surrender the certificate representing
such share, duly endorsed or assigned to the Company or in blank, at the
principal office of the Company accompanied by a written notice to the Company
(the "Conversion Notice") indicating that the holder thereof elects to convert
such share of Series H Preferred Stock and containing representations and
warranties of such holder that (i) such holder has good and marketable title to
such share of Series H Preferred Stock, free and clear of all liens, claims and
encumbrances, (ii) such holder has such knowledge and experience in financial
and business matters such that such holder is capable of evaluating the merits
and risks of receiving and owning the shares of Common Stock that may be issued
to it in exchange for such share of Series H Preferred Stock, (iii) such holder
is able to bear the economic risk of such ownership and (iv) such shares of
Common Stock to be acquired by such holder pursuant to this Section VII would be
acquired by such holder for its own account, for investment purposes only and
not with a view to, and with no present intention of, selling or distributing
the same in violation of federal or state securities laws. Unless the shares
issuable on conversion are to be issued in the same name as the name in which
such share of Series H Preferred Stock is registered, each share of Series H
Preferred Stock surrendered for conversion shall be accompanied by instruments
of transfer, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Company, duly executed by
the holder or such holder's duly authorized attorney and an amount sufficient to
pay any transfer or similar tax (or evidence reasonably satisfactory to the
Company demonstrating that such taxes have been paid).

      As promptly as practicable after the surrender of certificates for shares
of Series H Preferred Stock and delivery of the Conversion Notice as aforesaid,
the Company shall issue and shall deliver at such office to such holder, or on
the holder's written order, a certificate or certificates for the number of
shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of such shares of Series H
Preferred Stock in accordance with the provisions of this Section VII. In
addition, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder a certificate or
certificates evidencing any shares of Series H Preferred Stock that were
evidenced by the certificate or

                                       D-8

certificates delivered to the Company in connection with such conversion but
that were not converted.

      A holder of shares of Series H Preferred Stock at the close of business on
the record date for any Dividend Period shall be entitled to receive the
dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding Dividend Payment Date
notwithstanding the conversion of such shares of Series H Preferred Stock
following such record date and prior to such Dividend Payment Date and shall
have no right to receive any dividend for such Dividend Period in respect of the
shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Series H Preferred Stock were
converted. Except as provided herein, the Company shall make no payment or
allowance for unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, on converted shares
of Series H Preferred Stock or for dividends on the shares of Common Stock that
are issued upon such conversion.

      Each conversion shall be deemed to have been effected immediately prior to
the close of business on the date on which the certificates for shares of Series
H Preferred Stock shall have been surrendered and the Conversion Notice is
received by the Company as aforesaid, and the person or persons in whose name or
names any shares of Common Stock shall be issuable upon such conversion shall be
deemed to have become the holder or holders of record of such shares at such
time on such date, and such conversion shall be at the Conversion Price in
effect at such time and on such date unless the transfer books of the Company
shall be closed on that date, in which event such person or persons shall be
deemed to have become such holder or holders of record at the close of business
on the next succeeding day on which such transfer books are open, but such
conversion shall be at the Conversion Price in effect on the date on which such
shares have been surrendered and such notice received by the Company.

      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, all holders of
shares of Series H Preferred Stock shall be deemed to have delivered a
Conversion Notice (and therefore exercised their conversion rights effective as
of the time specified in the next sentence) as to all shares of Series H
Preferred Stock if (a) with respect to any period of 90 consecutive calendar
days following the Twelfth Anniversary Date, the trading price of a share of
Common Stock (calculated based on the average of the intra-day high and low)
exceeds on each trading day during such 90-day period the Conversion Price then
in effect and (b) the amount of the dividend (as calculated in accordance with
Section V(a)(ii) hereof) for each of the four (4) Relevant Dividend Periods upon
the number of shares of Common Stock (or portion thereof) into which a share of
Series H Preferred Stock is then convertible in accordance with this Section VII
exceeds the Base Quarterly Dividend. The forced conversion referred to in this
paragraph shall be effective at the close of business on the Dividend Payment
Date for the last Relevant Dividend Period.

      (c) The Conversion Price shall be adjusted from time to time as follows:

            (i) If the Company shall, after the date on which any shares of
Series H Preferred Stock are first issued (the "Issue Date"), (A) pay or make a
dividend to holders of its Common Stock in Common Stock, (B) subdivide its
outstanding Common Stock into a greater number of shares of Common Stock, (C)
combine its outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares of Common
Stock or (D) issue any shares of Capital Stock by reclassification of its Common
Stock, the Conversion Price in effect at the opening of business on the day

                                       D-9

following the date fixed for the determination of holders entitled to receive
such dividend or at the opening of business on the day next following the day on
which such subdivision, combination or reclassification becomes effective, as
the case may be, shall be adjusted so that the holder of any share of Series H
Preferred Stock thereafter surrendered for conversion shall be entitled to
receive the number of shares of Common Stock that such holder would have owned
or have been entitled to receive after the happening of any of the events
described above had such share of Series H Preferred Stock been converted
immediately prior to close of business on the record date in the case of a
dividend or the effective date in the case of a subdivision, combination or
reclassification. An adjustment made pursuant to this subsection (i) shall
become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day next
following the record date (except as provided in subsection (g) below) in the
case of a dividend and shall become effective immediately after the opening of
business on the day next following the effective date in the case of a
subdivision, combination or reclassification.

            (ii)If the Company shall issue after the Issue Date rights, options
or warrants to all holders of shares of Common Stock entitling them to subscribe
for or purchase shares of Common Stock (or securities convertible into or
exchangeable for shares of Common Stock) at a price per share less than the Fair
Market Value per share of Common Stock on the record date for the determination
of holders of shares of Common Stock entitled to receive such rights, options or
warrants, then the Conversion Price in effect at the opening of business on the
day next following such record date shall be adjusted to equal the price
determined by multiplying (I) the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior
to the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for such
determination by (II) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the sum of (A)
the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the
date fixed for such determination and (B) the number of shares of Common Stock
that the aggregate proceeds to the Company from the exercise of such rights,
options or warrants for shares of Common Stock would purchase at such Fair
Market Value, and the denominator of which shall be the sum of (A) the number of
shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed
for such determination and (B) the number of additional shares of Common Stock
offered for subscription or purchase pursuant to such rights, options or
warrants. Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the opening
of business on the day next following such record date (except as provided in
subsection (g) below). In determining whether any rights, options or warrants
entitle the holders of shares of Common Stock to subscribe for or purchase
shares of Common Stock at less than the Fair Market Value, there shall be taken
into account any consideration received by the Company upon issuance and upon
exercise of such rights, options or warrants, the value of such consideration,
if other than cash, to be determined in good faith by the Board of the Company.

            (iii) If the Company shall distribute after the Issue Date to all
holders of shares of Common Stock any other securities or evidences of its
indebtedness or assets (excluding those rights, options and warrants referred to
in and treated under subsection (ii) above, and excluding dividends paid
exclusively in cash) (any of the foregoing being hereinafter in this subsection
(iii) called the "Securities"), then in each case the Conversion Price shall be
adjusted so that it shall equal the price determined by multiplying (I) the
Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the
date fixed for the determination of holders of shares of Common Stock entitled
to receive such dividend by (II) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the
Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the record date mentioned below
less the then

                                      D-10

fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board of the Company) of
the portion of the Securities so distributed applicable to one share of Common
Stock, and the denominator of which shall be the Fair Market Value per share of
Common Stock on the record date mentioned below. Such adjustment shall become
effective immediately at the opening of business on the business day next
following (except as provided in subsection (g) below) the record date for the
determination of holders of shares of Common Stock entitled to receive such
distribution. For the purposes of this subsection (iii), a dividend in the form
of a Security, which is distributed not only to the holders of the shares of
Common Stock on the date fixed for the determination of holders of shares of
Common Stock entitled to such distribution of such Security, but also is
distributed with each share of Common Stock delivered to a person converting a
share of Series H Preferred Stock after such determination date (together with
dividends thereon paid to holders of shares of Common Stock prior thereto),
shall not require an adjustment of the Conversion Price pursuant to this
subsection (iii); provided that on the date, if any, on which a person
converting a share of Series H Preferred Stock would no longer be entitled to
receive such Security with a share of Common Stock, a distribution of such
Securities shall be deemed to have occurred, and the Conversion Price shall be
adjusted as provided in this subsection (iii) (and such day shall be deemed to
be "the date fixed for the determination of the holders of shares of Common
Stock entitled to receive such dividend" and "the record date" within the
meaning of the two preceding sentences).

            (iv)Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustment shall be made
pursuant to the preceding clauses (ii) and (iii) that would result in an
increase in the Conversion Price. No adjustment in the Conversion Price shall be
required unless such adjustment would require a cumulative increase or decrease
of at least 1% in such price; provided, however, that any adjustments that by
reason of this subsection (iv) are not required to be made shall be carried
forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment until made; and
provided, further, that any adjustment shall be required and made in accordance
with the provisions of this Section VII (other than this subsection (iv)) not
later than such time as may be required in order to preserve the tax-free nature
of a dividend to the holders of shares of Common Stock. Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this Section VII, the Company shall not be required to make
any adjustment to the Conversion Price for the issuance of any (i) shares of
Common Stock pursuant to any plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or
interest payable on securities of the Company and the investment of additional
optional amounts in Common Stock under such plan or (ii) any options, rights or
shares of Common Stock pursuant to any stock option, stock purchase or any
stock-based compensation plan maintained by the Corporation. All calculations
under this Section VII shall be made to the nearest cent (with $.005 being
rounded upward) or to the nearest one-tenth of a share (with .05 of a share
being rounded upward), as the case may be.

      (d) If the Company shall be a party to any transaction (including, without
limitation, a merger, consolidation, entity conversion, share exchange,
statutory share exchange, self tender offer for all or substantially all of the
shares of Common Stock, sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets
or recapitalization of the Common Stock or other business combination or
reorganization and excluding any transaction as to which subsection (c)(i) of
this Section VII applies) (each of the foregoing being referred to herein as a
"Transaction"), in each case as a result of which shares of Common Stock shall
be exchanged for or converted into the right, or the holders of such shares
shall otherwise be entitled, to receive shares, stock, securities or other

                                      D-11

property (including cash or any combination thereof), each share of Series H
Preferred Stock which is not converted into the right to receive shares, stock,
securities or other property in connection with such Transaction (and thus
remains outstanding) shall thereafter be convertible into the kind and amount of
shares, stock, securities and other property (including cash or any combination
thereof) receivable upon the consummation of such Transaction by a holder of
that number of shares of Common Stock into which one share of Series H Preferred
Stock (including all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) accumulated
and unpaid thereon) was convertible immediately prior to such Transaction,
assuming such holder of Common Stock is not a Person with which the Company
consolidated or into which the Company merged or which merged into the Company
or to which such sale or transfer was made, as the case may be (a "Constituent
Person"), or an affiliate of a Constituent Person. In the event that holders of
shares of Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the form or type of
consideration to be received upon consummation of the Transaction, prior to such
transaction the Company shall give prompt written notice to each holder of
shares of Series H Preferred Stock of such election, and each holder of shares
of Series H Preferred Stock shall also have the right to elect, by written
notice to the Company, the form or type of consideration to be received upon
conversion of each share of Series H Preferred Stock held by such holder
following consummation of such Transaction. If a holder of shares of Series H
Preferred Stock fails to make such an election, such holder (and any of its
transferees) shall receive upon conversion of each share of Series H Preferred
Stock held by such holder (or by any of its transferees) the same consideration
that a holder of that number of shares of Common Stock into which one share of
Series H Preferred Stock was convertible immediately prior to such Transaction
would receive if such holder failed to make such an election. The Company shall
not be a party to any Transaction unless the terms of such Transaction are
consistent with the provisions of this subsection (d), and it shall not consent
or agree to the occurrence of any Transaction until the Company has entered into
an agreement with the successor or purchasing entity, as the case may be, for
the benefit of the holders of the shares of Series H Preferred Stock that will
contain provisions enabling the holders of shares of Series H Preferred Stock
that remain outstanding after such Transaction to convert into the consideration
received by holders of shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price in effect
immediately prior to such Transaction (with the holder having the option to
elect the type of consideration if a choice is offered in the Transaction as
specified above). The provisions of this subsection (d) shall similarly apply to
successive Transactions.

      (e) If:

            (i) the Company shall declare a dividend on the shares of Common
Stock (other than a cash dividend) or there shall be a reclassification,
subdivision or combination of Common Stock; or

            (ii)the Company shall authorize the granting to the holders of the
shares of Common Stock of rights, options or warrants to subscribe for or
purchase any Capital Stock of any class or any other rights, options or
warrants; or

            (iii) there shall be any reclassification of the shares of Common
Stock or any consolidation or merger to which the Company is a party and for
which approval of any stockholders of the Company is required, or a statutory
share exchange involving the conversion or exchange of shares of Common Stock
into securities or other property, or a share exchange

                                      D-12

involving the conversion or exchange of shares of Common Stock into securities
or other property, a self tender offer by the Company for all or substantially
all of the shares of Common Stock, or the sale or transfer of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company as an entirety; or

            (iv) there shall occur the voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Company,

then the Company shall cause to be mailed to the holders of the shares of Series
H Preferred Stock at their addresses as shown on the records of the Company, as
promptly as possible a notice stating (A) the date on which a record is to be
taken for the purpose of such distribution of rights, options or warrants, or,
if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the holders of shares of
Common Stock of record to be entitled to such distribution of rights, options or
warrants are to be determined or (B) the date on which such reclassification,
subdivision, combination, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up is expected to become effective, and the date as of
which it is expected that holders of shares of Common Stock of record shall be
entitled to exchange their shares of Common Stock for securities or other
property, if any, deliverable upon such reclassification, consolidation, merger,
sale, transfer, liquidation, dissolution or winding-up. Failure to give or
receive such notice or any defect therein shall not affect the legality or
validity of the proceedings described in this Section VII.

      (f) Whenever the Conversion Price is adjusted as herein provided, the
Company shall prepare a notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Price
setting forth the adjusted Conversion Price and the effective date such
adjustment becomes effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of
the Conversion Price to the holder of each share of Series H Preferred Stock at
such holder's last address as shown on the records of the Company.

      (g) In any case in which subsection (c) of this Section VII provides that
an adjustment shall become effective on the date next following the record date
for an event, the Company may defer until the occurrence of such event (i)
issuing to the holder of any share of Series H Preferred Stock converted after
such record date and before the occurrence of such event the additional shares
of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion by reason of the adjustment
required by such event over and above the shares of Common Stock issuable upon
such conversion before giving effect to such adjustment and (ii) paying to such
holder any amount of cash in lieu of fractions pursuant to subsection (a) of
this Section VII.

      (h) For purposes of this Section VII, the number of shares of Common Stock
at any time outstanding shall not include any shares of Common Stock then owned
or held by or for the account of the Company. The Company shall not make any
distribution on shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company.

      (i) If any action or transaction would require adjustment of the
Conversion Price pursuant to more than one subsection of this Section VII, only
one adjustment shall be made, and such adjustment shall be the amount of
adjustment that has the highest absolute value.

                                      D-13

(j) If the Company shall take any action affecting the Common Stock, other
than action described in this Section VII, that in the reasonable judgment of
the Company would materially affect the conversion rights of the holders of the
shares of Series H Preferred Stock, the Conversion Price for the Series H
Preferred Stock may be adjusted, to the extent permitted by law, in such manner,
if any, and at such time, as the Company, determines to be equitable in the
circumstances.

      (k) The Company covenants that shares of Common Stock issued upon
conversion of the shares of Series H Preferred Stock shall be validly issued,
fully paid and non-assessable and the holder thereof shall be entitled to rights
of a holder of shares of Common Stock specified in the Certificate of
Incorporation. Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Company shall be
obligated to deliver upon conversion of the Series H Preferred Stock, the
Company shall endeavor to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations
in respect thereof.

      (l) The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or
transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common
Stock or other securities or property on conversion of the shares of Series H
Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not
be required to pay any tax that may be payable in respect of any transfer
involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock or other securities
or property in a name other than that of the holder of the Series H Preferred
Stock to be converted, and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and
until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Company the
amount of any such tax or established, to the reasonable satisfaction of the
Company, that such tax has been paid.

      (m) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein (but subject
to the provisions of Section VII(n) hereof), the Company agrees that it will
apply the adjustment provisions of this Section VII and any related provisions
as if the Series H Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding as of November
27, 2002. Thus, for example, if an event were to occur on December 31, 2002 that
would adjust the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of
Series H Preferred Stock would have been convertible had such shares of Series H
Preferred Stock been outstanding as of such date, but the Series H Preferred
Stock were not actually issued until December 31, 2003, then such adjustment
would be applied so that, upon such issuance (but subject to further adjustment
for subsequent events), the Series H Preferred Stock would be immediately
convertible into the number of shares of Common Stock into which the Series H
Preferred Stock would have been convertible had such shares of Series H
Preferred Stock been outstanding on December 31, 2002.

      (n) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the
adjustment provisions contained in this Section VII shall be applied so that
there is no duplication of adjustments made pursuant to any other document.

VIII. Ownership Limitations

      The shares of Series H Preferred Stock are subject to the restrictions on
transferability and ownership provisions described in Article IV of the
Certificate of Incorporation. The ownership limit as described in Article IV of
the Certificate of Incorporation (the "Ownership Limit") shall mean that
ownership of more than 7.5% of the value of the outstanding shares of

                                      D-14

Capital Stock of the Company, including the Series H Preferred Stock, is
restricted in order to preserve the Company's status as a REIT for U.S. federal
income tax purposes. Subject to certain limitations described in Article IV of
the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board may modify the Ownership Limit,
though the Ownership Limit may not be increased by the Board to more than 9.8%.
In addition, Article IV of the Certificate of Incorporation limits the ownership
of "Existing Holders" (the "Existing Holder Limit") and also limits transfers
that would cause the Company to become "closely held" within the meaning of
Section 856(h) of the Code.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of
Designations to be executed in its name and on its behalf by its Executive Vice
President and attested to by its Secretary on this 27th day of November, 2002.

                                    GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC., a
                                    Delaware corporation

                                    By:        /s/ Bernard Freibaum
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Bernard Freibaum, Executive Vice
                                         President

ATTEST:

By:     /s/ Marshall E. Eisenberg
    -------------------------------------------
    Marshall E. Eisenberg, Secretary

                                      D-15

</EX-3.1>

<EX-3.2>
 3
 c02442exv3w2.txt
 BYLAWS

Exhibit 3.2

                                                     ARTICLE IV, SECTION 4.1
                                                     amended on May 3, 1994

                                                     ARTICLE III, SECTION 3.9
                                                     amended on February 5, 2003

                                     BYLAWS
                                       OF
                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

              INCORPORATED UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE

                                    ARTICLE I

                               OFFICES AND RECORDS

          SECTION 1.1. DELAWARE OFFICE. The principal office of the Corporation
in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of
New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is The Corporation
Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware.

          SECTION 1.2. OTHER OFFICES. The Corporation may have such other
offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of
Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to
time require.

          SECTION 1.3. BOOKS AND RECORDS. The books and records of the
Corporation may be kept outside the State of Delaware at such place or places as
may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.

                                   ARTICLE II

                                  STOCKHOLDERS

          SECTION 2.1. ANNUAL MEETING. The annual meeting of the stockholders
of the Corporation shall be held on the last Friday in April of each year, if
not a legal holiday, and if a legal holiday then on the next succeeding business
day, at 10:00 a.m., local time, at the principal executive offices of the
Corporation, or at such other date, place and/or time as may be fixed by,
resolution of the Board of Directors.

          SECTION 2.2. SPECIAL MEETING. Subject to the rights of the holders of
any series of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation (the
"Preferred Stock") to elect additional directors under specified circumstances,
special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the
Board or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a
majority of the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if
there were no vacancies (the "Whole Board").

          SECTION 2.3. PLACE OF MEETING. The Board of Directors may designate
the place of meeting for any meeting of the stockholders. If no designation is
made by the Board of Directors,

the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation.

          SECTION 2.4. NOTICE OF MEETING. Written or printed notice, stating the
place, day and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the
meeting is called, shall be prepared and delivered by the Corporation not less
than ten days nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, either
personally, or by mail, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such
meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited
in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the
stockholder at his address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the
Corporation. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law.
Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are
present, or if notice is waived by those not present. Any previously scheduled
meeting of the stockholders may be postponed by resolution of the Board of
Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for
such meeting of stockholders.

          SECTION 2.5. QUORUM AND ADJOURNMENT. Except as otherwise provided by
law or by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority
of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the
election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented in person or by proxy,
shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when
specified business is to be voted on by a class or series voting as a class, the
holders of a majority of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of such business. The chairman of the meeting or a
majority of the shares so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time,
whether or not there is such a quorum. No notice of the time and place of
adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders
present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until
adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less
than a quorum.

          SECTION 2.6. PROXIES. At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder
may vote by proxy executed in writing by the stockholder, or by his duly
authorized attorney-in-fact. Such proxy must be filed with the Secretary of the
Corporation or his representative at or before the time of the meeting.

          SECTION 2.7. NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDER BUSINESS AND NOMINATIONS.

          (A) ANNUAL MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS.

          (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of
the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the
stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of

-2-

stockholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting delivered
pursuant to Section 2.4 of these Bylaws, (b) by or at the direction of the
Chairman or the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation
who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures
set forth in clauses (2) and (3) of this paragraph (A) of this Bylaw and who was
a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of
the Corporation.

          (2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an
annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of
this Bylaw the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to
the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be
delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation
not less than sixty days nor more than ninety days prior to the first
anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in
the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than thirty
days or delayed by more than sixty days from such anniversary date, notice by
the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the ninetieth
day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the
later of the sixtieth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day
following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is
first made. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom
the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director
all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in
solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in
each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the "Exchange Act"), including such person's written consent to
being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if
elected; (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring
before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought
before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and
any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial
owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the
stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf
the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder,
as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii)
the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially
and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner.

          (3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph
(A)(2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors
to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and
there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or
specifying the size of

-3-

the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least seventy days
prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a
stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but
only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if
it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the
Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the
day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.

          (B) SPECIAL MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS. Only such business shall be
conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before
the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Section
2.4 of these Bylaws. nominations of persons for election to the Board of
Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors
are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at
the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the
Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies with the notice
procedures set forth in this Bylaw and who is a stockholder of record at the
time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. Nominations
by stockholders of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at
such a special meeting of stockholders if the stockholder's notice is required
by paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw shall be delivered to the Secretary at the
principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the ninetieth
day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on
the later of the seventieth day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day
following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the
special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be
elected at such meeting.

          (C) GENERAL.

          (1) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures
set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such
business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been
brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation or these Bylaws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power
and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be
brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth
in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance
with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be
disregarded.

          (2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean
disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones

-4-

News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a
document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

          (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a
stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange
Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set
forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights
of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy
statement pursuant to Rule 14a-5 under the Exchange Act.

          SECTION 2.8. PROCEDURE FOR ELECTION OF DIRECTORS. Election of
directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which directors are to be
elected shall be by written ballot, and, except as otherwise set forth in any
Preferred Stock Designation (as defined in Article IV of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation) with respect to the right of the holders of any
series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified
circumstances, a plurality of the votes cast thereat shall elect.

          SECTION 2.9. INSPECTORS OF ELECTIONS; OPENING AND CLOSING THE POLLS.

          (A) The Board of Directors by resolution may appoint one or more
inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the
Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers,
employees, agents or representatives of the Corporation, to act at the meeting
and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as
alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector
or alternate has been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who
have been appointed are unable to act, at a meeting of stockholders, the
chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the
meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and
sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict
impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors
shall have the duties prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware (the "GLC").

          (B) The chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting
the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter
upon which the stockholders will vote at the meeting.

          SECTION 2.10. NO STOCKHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT. Subject to the
rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional
directors under specific circumstances, any action required or permitted to be
taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at an annual or
special meeting of

-5-

stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in
writing by such stockholders.

          SECTION 2.11. VOTE OF STOCKHOLDERS. Subject to the rights of the
holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified
circumstances, each stockholder having the right to vote shall be entitled at
every meeting of stockholders to one vote for every share standing in his name
on the record date fixed by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 6.8 of
these Bylaws. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, any Preferred Stock Designation, these Bylaws or any resolution
adopted by a majority of the Whole Board, all matters submitted to the
stockholders at any meeting (other than the election of directors) shall be
decided by a majority of the votes cast with respect thereto.

                                   ARTICLE III

                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS

          SECTION 3.1. GENERAL POWERS. The business and affairs of the
Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of
Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly
conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the
Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the
Restated Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be
exercised or done by the stockholders.

          SECTION 3.2. NUMBER, TENURE AND QUALIFICATIONS. Subject to the rights
of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under
specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to
time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole
Board, but shall consist of not more than fifteen nor less than three directors.
The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any series
of Preferred Stock, shall be divided, with respect to the time for which they
severally hold office, into three classes, as nearly equal in number as
possible, with the term of office of the first class to expire at the 1994
annual meeting of stockholders, the term of office of the second class to expire
at the 1995 annual meeting of stockholders and the term of office of the third
class to expire at the 1996 annual meeting of stockholders. Each director shall
hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and
qualified. At each annual meeting of stockholders, commencing with the 1993
annual meeting, (i) directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms
then expire shall be elected for a term of office to expire at the third
succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election, with each
director to hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected
and qualified and (ii) if

-6-

authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors, directors may be elected
to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors, regardless of how such vacancy
shall have been created.

          SECTION 3.3. REGULAR MEETINGS. A regular meeting of the Board of
Directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw immediately after,
and at the same place as, each annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of
Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of
additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.

          SECTION 3.4. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the Board of
Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the
President or a majority of the Board of Directors. The person or persons
authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place
and time of the meetings.

          SECTION 3.5. NOTICE. Notice of any special meeting shall be given to
each director at his business or residence in writing or by telegram or by
telephone communication. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed adequately
delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage
thereon prepaid, at least five days before such meeting. If by telegram, such
notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the telegram is delivered to
the telegraph company at least twenty-four hours before such meeting. If by
telephone, the notice shall be given at least twelve hours prior to the time set
for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of,
any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in
the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Bylaws as provided
under Section 7.1 hereof. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if
all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the
meeting in writing, either before or after such meeting.

          SECTION 3.6. QUORUM. A whole number of directors equal to at least a
majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less
than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the
meeting from time to time without further notice. The act of the majority of the
directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of
the Board of Directors. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may
continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal
of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.

          SECTION 3.7. VACANCIES. Subject to the rights of the holders of any
series of Preferred Stock, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise
determines, vacancies resulting from death,

-7-

resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause,
and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized
number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of
the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors,
and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the annual
meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which they
have been elected expires and until such director's successor shall have been
duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors
constituting the Whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.

          SECTION 3.8. REMOVAL. Subject to the rights of the holders of any
series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified
circumstances, any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed
from office at any time, but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of
the holders of at least 75 percent of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting
together as a single class.

          SECTION 3.9. COMMITTEES. The Board of Directors may, by resolution or
resolutions passed by a majority of the Whole Board, designate one or more
committees, each committee to consist of two or more directors of the
Corporation, including the following committees:

          (a) An Executive Committee, which shall have such authority as shall
     be delegated by the Board of Directors and shall advise the Board of
     Directors from time to time with respect to such matter as the Board of
     Directors shall direct.

          (b) An Audit Committee which shall consist of Independent Directors
     (as defined below). The Audit Committee shall make recommendations
     concerning the engagement of independent public accountants, review with
     the independent public accountants the plans and results of the audit
     engagement, approve professional services provided by the independent
     public accountants, review the independence of the independent public
     accountants, consider the range of audit and non-audit fees and review the
     adequacy of the Corporation's internal accounting controls.

          (c) A Compensation Committee, which shall determine compensation for
     the Corporation's executive officers and shall administer a stock incentive
     plan adopted by the Corporation.

For purposes of this Section 3.9, "Independent Directors" shall mean directors
who are not (i) officers of the Corporation, (ii) employees of the Corporation,
(iii) holders of more than 5 percent of the outstanding Voting Stock of the
Corporation of (iv) with reference to any particular transaction, interested
directors

-8-

within the meaning of Section 144 of the GCL. The Board of Directors may
designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may
replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of such committee. Any
such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution establishing such
committee and not inconsistent with the GCL, shall have any may exercise the
powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs
of the Corporation. Unless the Board of Directors shall provide. otherwise, the
presence of one-half of the total membership of any committee of the Board of
Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any
meeting of such committee and the act of a majority of those present shall be
necessary and sufficient for the taking of any action thereat.

          SECTION 3.10. HONORARY DIRECTORS. The Board of Directors may from time
to time appoint one or more persons to serve at the pleasure of the Board of
Directors as honorary directors of the Corporation. Honorary directors shall be
entitled to receive notice of and attend all regular and special meetings of the
Board of Directors but shall not be deemed to be present at any such meeting for
the purpose of determining whether a quorum is present and shall not be
entitled to vote on any matter submitted to a vote of the directors.

                                   ARTICLE IV

                                    OFFICERS

          SECTION 4.1. ELECTED OFFICERS. The elected officers of the Corporation
shall be a Chairman of the Board, a President, a Secretary, a Treasurer and such
other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. The
Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from the directors. All officers chosen by
the Board of Directors shall each have such powers and duties as generally
pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this
Article IV. Such officers shall also have such powers and duties as from time to
time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof.

          SECTION 4.2. ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE. The elected officers of the
Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular
meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of the
stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting such
election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Subject to Section 4.7
of these Bylaws, each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have
been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall
resign.

          SECTION 4.3. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. The Chairman of the Board shall
preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of

-9-

the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the
general management of the affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all
duties incidental to his office which may be required by law and all such other
duties as are properly required of him by the Board of Directors. Except where
by law the signature of the President is required, the Chairman of the Board
shall possess the same power as the President to sign all certificates,
contracts, and other instruments of the Corporation which may be authorized by
the Board of Directors. He shall make reports to the Board of Directors and the
stockholders, and shall perform all such other duties as are properly required
of him by the Board of Directors. He shall see that all orders and resolutions
of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect.

          SECTION 4.4. PRESIDENT. The President shall act in a general executive
capacity and shall assist the Chairman of the Board in the administration and
operation of the Corporation's business and general supervision of its policies
and affairs. The President shall, in the absence of or because of the inability
to act of the Chairman of the Board, perform all duties of the Chairman of the
Board and preside at all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors.
The President may sign, alone or with the Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary
or any other proper, officer of the Corporation authorized by the Board of
Directors, certificates, contracts and other instruments of the Corporation as
authorized by the Board of Directors.

          SECTION 4.5. SECRETARY. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be
given, notice of all meetings of stockholders and Directors and all other
notices required by law or by these Bylaws, and in case of his absence or
refusal or neglect so to do, any such notice may be given by any person
thereunto directed by the Chairman of the Board or the President, or by the
Board of Directors, upon whose request the meeting is called as provided in
these Bylaws. He shall record all the proceedings of the meetings of the Board
of Directors, any committees thereof and the stockholders of the Corporation in
a book to be kept for that purpose, and shall perform such other duties as may
be assigned to him by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the
President. He shall have the custody of the seal of the Corporation and shall
affix the same to all instruments requiring it, when authorized by the Board of
Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President, and attest to the same.

          SECTION 4.6. TREASURER. The Treasurer shall have the custody of the
corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate account of
receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation. The Treasurer
shall deposit all moneys and other valuables in the name and to the credit of
the Corporation in such depositaries as may be designated by the Board of
Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the

-10-

Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the
Board, or the President, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements. The
Treasurer shall render to the Chairman of the Board, the President and the Board
of Directors, whenever requested, an account of all his transactions as
Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the
Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond for the
faithful discharge of his duties in such amount and with such surety as the
Board of Directors shall prescribe.

          SECTION 4.7. REMOVAL. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors
may be removed by a majority of the members of the Whole Board whenever, in
their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby.
No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for
compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his
successor, his death, his resignation or his removal, whichever event shall
first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an
employee deferred compensation plan.

          SECTION 4.8. VACANCIES. A newly created office and a vacancy in any
office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of
Directors for the unexpired portion of the term at any meeting of the Board of
Directors.

                                    ARTICLE V

                        STOCK CERTIFICATES AND TRANSFERS

          SECTION 5.1. STOCK CERTIFICATES AND TRANSFERS.

          (A) The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be
evidenced by certificates for shares of stock in such form as the appropriate
officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe. The shares of the
stock of the Corporation shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by
the holder thereof in person or by his attorney, upon surrender for cancellation
of certificates for the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of
transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of
the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may
reasonably require.

          (B) The certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and
registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe,
which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to
be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed
or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be
such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it
may be issued by

-11-

the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent
or registrar at the date of issue.

                                   ARTICLE VI

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

          SECTION 6.1. FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall
begin on the first clay of January and end on the thirty-first day of December
of each year.

          SECTION 6.2. DIVIDENDS. The Board of Directors may from time to time
declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in
the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and its Restated
Certificate of Incorporation.

          Section 6.3. SEAL. The corporate seal may bear in the center of the
emblem of some object, and shall have inscribed thereunder the words "Corporate
Seal" and around the margin thereof the words "General Growth Properties, Inc.
- -- Delaware 1986".

          Section 6.4. WAIVER OF NOTICE. Whenever any notice is required to be
given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of
the GCL, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled
to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed
equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted
at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders of the
Board of Directors need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.

          Section 6.5. AUDITS. The accounts, books and records of the
Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an
independent certified public accountant selected by the Board of Directors, and
it shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to cause such audit to be made
annually.

          Section 6.6. RESIGNATIONS. Any director or any officer,
whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time by serving written notice
of such resignation on the Chairman of the Board, the President or the
Secretary, and such resignation shall be deemed to be effective as of the close
of business on the date said notice is received by the Chairman of the Board,
the President or the Secretary. No action shall be required of the Board of
Directors or the stockholders to make any such resignation effective.

          Section 6.7. INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE. (A) Each person who was or
is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any
action, suit, or proceeding, whether

-12-

civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"),
by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal
representative is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or
is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer,
employee or agent of any other corporation or of a partnership, joint venture,
trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit
plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official
capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity
while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified
and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the GCL
as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such
amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to
provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation
to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss
(including, without limitation, attorneys, fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise
taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably
incurred by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall
continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or
agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and
administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in paragraph (B) of
this Bylaw with respect to proceedings seeking to enforce rights to
indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking
indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by
such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the
Board of Directors of the Corporation.

          (B) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Bylaw is not paid in full
by the Corporation within thirty days after a written claim has been received by
the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the
Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in
whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of
prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an
action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any
proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking,
if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has
not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the GCL for the
Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of
proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the
Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or
stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such
action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances
because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the
GCL, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of
Directors, independent legal counsel or

-13-

stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct,
shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has
not met the applicable standard of conduct.

          (C) Following any "change in control" of the Corporation of the type
required to be reported under Item 1 of Form 8-K promulgated under the Exchange
Act, any determination as to entitlement to indemnification shall be made by
independent legal counsel selected by the claimant, which such independent legal
counsel shall be retained by the Board of Directors on behalf of the
Corporation.

          (D) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred
in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this
Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or
hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested
directors or otherwise.

          (E) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect
itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or
another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise
against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would
have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss
under the GCL.

          (F) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by
the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid
by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance
of its final disposition, to any agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent
of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and
advancement of expenses of directors, officers and employees of the Corporation.

          (G) The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall be a
contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the
expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final
disposition; provided, however, that if the GCL requires, the payment of such
expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director
or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by
such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service
to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a
proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an
undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay all amounts so
advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is
not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.

-14-

SECTION 6.8 RECORD DATES.

          (A) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders
entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any
adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record
date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date
is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more
than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting. If no record
is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders
entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the
close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given,
or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the
day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record
entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholder shall apply to any
adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may
fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.

          (B) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders
entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment
of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of
any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other
lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date
shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is
adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty days prior to such
action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders
of any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the
Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.

                                   ARTICLE VII

                                   AMENDMENTS

          SECTION 7.1. AMENDMENTS. These Bylaws may be amended, added to,
rescinded or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the
stockholders, provided that notice of the proposed change was given (a) in the
case of a meeting of the stockholders, in the notice of the meeting delivered
pursuant to Section 2.4 of these Bylaws and, (b) in the case of a meeting of the
Board of Directors, in a notice given no less than two days prior to the
meeting; provided, however, that, in the case of amendments by stockholders,
notwithstanding any other provisions of these Bylaws or any provision of law
which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote, but in addition to any
affirmative vote of the holders of any particular class or series of the Voting
Stock required by law, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation,

-15-

any Preferred Stock Designation or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of the
holders of at least 80 percent of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting
together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend or repeal any
provision of these Bylaws.

-16-

AMENDED AND RESTATED
                          SECTION 3.9 OF THE BYLAWS OF
                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.
                            (AS OF FEBRUARY 5, 2003)

          SECTION 3.9. COMMITTEES. The Board of Directors may, by resolution or
resolutions passed by a majority of the Whole Board, designate one or more
committees, each committee to consist of two (or such other minimum number, if
any, mandated by law and the applicable listing requirements of the New York
Stock Exchange) or more directors of the Corporation, including the following
committees:

          (a) An Executive Committee, which shall have such authority as shall
     be delegated by the Board of Directors and shall advise the Board of
     Directors from time to time with respect to such matters as the Board of
     Directors shall direct; and

          (b) An Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee and a Nominating &
     Governance Committee, each of which committees shall: (i) consist of
     Independent Directors (as defined below), to the extent required by law and
     the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, as in effect from
     time to time, and (ii) have such authority (A) as shall be set forth in the
     charter for such committee (as approved by the Board of Directors), which
     authority shall at all times be not less than that mandated by law and the
     applicable listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, and (B) as
     shall otherwise be delegated by the Board of Directors.

For purposes of this Section 3.9, "Independent Directors" shall mean directors
who (i) satisfy the definition of "independent director" set forth in the
applicable listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and (ii) in the
case of the Audit Committee, satisfy the independence requirements for Audit
Committee membership mandated by law and such listing requirements. The Board of
Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any
committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of
such committee, provided that any such alternate member must satisfy any
applicable membership eligibility requirements of the relevant committee
mandated by law, the applicable listing requirements of the New York Stock
Exchange and the charter, if any, of such committee. Any such committee, to the
extent provided in the resolution establishing such committee and
not inconsistent with the GCL, shall have and may exercise the powers of the
Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the
Corporation. Unless the Board of Directors shall provide otherwise, the presence
of a whole number of directors equal to a majority of the total membership of
any committee of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business at any meeting of such committee and the act of a
majority of those present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be
necessary and sufficient for the taking of any action thereat.

AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE IV SECTION 4.1
                                       OF
                                    BY-LAWS
                                       OF
                        GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

     RESOLVED, that the first sentence of Article IV, Section 4.1 of the
Corporation's By-laws be, and it hereby is amended to read as follows:

     'Section 4.1. Elected Officers. The elected officers of the Corporation
     shall be a Chairman of the Board, a President, one or more Executive Vice
     Presidents (regardless of designation), one or more Senior Vice Presidents
     (regardless of designation), one or more Vice Presidents (regardless of
     designation), a Secretary, a Treasurer and such other officers as the Board
     of Directors may deem proper from time to time.'

</EX-3.2>

<EX-4.1>
 4
 c02442exv4w1.txt
 FORM OF COMMON STOCK CERTIFICATE

EX-4.1

FORM OF COMMON STOCK CERTIFICATE
 
                                                                     Exhibit 4.1

NUMBER
M [____]
                                                                    COMMON STOCK
                                                                  PAR VALUE $.01

                                   [PICTURE]

COMMON STOCK
[SPACE]

THIS CERTIFICATE IS TRANSFERABLE
IN JERSEY CITY, NJ                                             CUSIP 370021 10 7
OR NEW YORK, NY
                                             SEE REVERSE FOR CERTAIN DEFINITIONS

                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

              INCORPORATED UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE

THIS CERTIFIES THAT ____________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________[SPECIMEN]
IS THE OWNER OF __________ FULLY-PAID AND NON-ASSESSABLE SHARES OF THE COMMON
STOCK OF General Growth Properties, Inc. transferable on the books of the
Corporation by the holder hereof in person or by duly authorized attorney upon
surrender of this certificate properly endorsed. This certificate is not valid
unless countersigned by the Transfer Agent and registered by the Registrar.

     Witness the facsimile seal of the Corporation and the facsimile signatures
of its duly authorized officers.

[SEAL]

                                                       PAR VALUE CHANGED TO $.01

Dated:
       --------------------------------

COUNTERSIGNED AND REGISTERED:

MELLON INVESTOR SERVICES LLC
TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR

/s/ MARSHALL E. EISENBERG                   /s/ JOHN BUCKSBAUM
- ------------------------------------        ------------------------------------
SECRETARY                                   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE

[BANKNOTE CORPORATION OF AMERICA]

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

     The shares of Equity Stock represented by this certificate are subject to
restrictions on transfer for the purpose of the Corporation's maintenance of its
status as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the "Code"). No Person may (1) Beneficially Own or
Constructively Own shares of Equity Stock in excess of 7.5% (or such other
percentage as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation) of
the value of the outstanding Equity Stock of the Corporation unless such Person
is an Existing Holder (in which case the Existing Holder Limit shall be
applicable); or (2) Beneficially Own Equity Stock which would result in the
Corporation being "closely held" under Section 856(h) of the Code. Any Person
who attempts to Beneficially Own or Constructively Own shares of Equity Stock in
excess of the above limitations must immediately notify the Corporation in
writing. If the restrictions above are violated, the shares of Equity Stock
represented hereby will be transferred automatically and by operation of law to
a Trust and shall be designated Shares-in-Trust. All capitalized terms in this
legend have the meanings defined in the Corporation's Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, as the same may be further amended from time to
time, a copy of which, including the restrictions on transfer, will be sent
without charge to each stockholder who so requests.

     This certificate also evidences and entitles the holder hereof to certain
Rights as set forth in a Rights Agreement between General Growth Properties,
Inc. and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as successor to Norwest Bank Minnesota,
N.A., as Rights Agent, dated as of November 18, 1998 (as amended, the "Rights
Agreement"), the terms of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference and
a copy of which is on file at the principal executive offices of General Growth
Properties, Inc. Under certain circumstances, as set forth in the Rights
Agreement, such Rights will be evidenced by separate certificates and will no
longer be evidenced by this certificate. General Growth Properties, Inc. will
mail to the holder of this certificate a copy of the Rights Agreement without
charge after receipt of a written request therefor. Under certain circumstances,
Rights that are or were acquired or beneficially owned by Acquiring Persons (as
defined in the Rights Agreement) may become null and void.

     The Corporation will furnish to any stockholder upon request and without
charge a statement of the designations, preferences, limitations and relative
rights of the shares of each class or series authorized to be issued, so far as
they have been determined, and the authority of the Board of Directors to
determine the relative rights and preferences of subsequent classes or series.
Such requests may be made to the Secretary of the Corporation.

     The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of
this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM -- as tenants in common              UNIF GIFT MIN ACT --
                                             _____________ Custodian ___________
                                                (Cust)                  (Minor)
                                                   under Uniform Gifts to Minors
TEN ENT -- as tenants by the entireties            Act __________________
                                                            (State)

JT TEN  -- as joint tenants with right of
           survivorship and not as tenants in common

Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.

     For value received, __________ hereby sell, assign and transfer unto

      PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
[______________________________________________________________________________]

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
shares of common stock represented by the within Certificate, and do hereby
irrevocably constitute and appoint ___________________________________ Attorney
to transfer the said stock on the books of the within named Corporation with
full power of substitution in the premises.

Dated:
       ------------------------------

SIGNATURE GUARANTEED:

- -------------------------------------
NOTICE: THE SIGNATURE(S) SHOULD BE
GUARANTEED BY AN ELIGIBLE GUARANTOR
INSTITUTION (BANKS, STOCKBROKERS,
SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS AND
CREDIT UNIONS WITH MEMBERSHIP IN AN
APPROVED SIGNATURE GUARANTEE
MEDALLION PROGRAM) PURSUANT TO S.E.C.
RULE 17Ad-15.

Signature:
           --------------------------

Signature:
           --------------------------

NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as
written upon the face of the certificate in every particular, without alteration
or enlargement, or any change whatever.

</EX-4.1>

<EX-4.2>
 5
 c02442exv4w2.txt
 RIGHTS AGREEMENT

Exhibit 4.2

                                RIGHTS AGREEMENT

     THIS RIGHTS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 27th day of July, 1993,
among GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC., a Delaware limited partnership (the
"REIT"), and the persons whose names are set forth under the caption "Limited
Partners" on the signature pages hereto (collectively, the "Limited Partners").

                                   WITNESSETH

     WHEREAS, the REIT, as general partner, and the Limited Partners, as limited
partners, have heretofore formed a Delaware limited partnership known as GGP
Limited Partnership (the "Partnership") pursuant to that certain Agreement of
Limited Partnership dated April 6, 1993 (the "Original Partnership Agreement");

     WHEREAS, the common stock of the REIT, $.10 par value (the "Common Stock"),
is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange;

     WHEREAS, pursuant to the Original Partnership Agreement, the REIT granted
to the Limited Partners certain rights to convert a portion of their partnership
interests in the Partnership into shares of Common Stock and to sell all or a
portion of the remainder of their partnership interests to the REIT for cash or
Common Stock, at the option of the REIT;

     WHEREAS, concurrently herewith, the parties hereto, being all of the
current partners of the Partnership, are entering

WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to set forth herein the terms and
conditions upon which the Limited Partners can convert and/or sell their
partnership interests in the Partnership into Common Stock and/or cash in lieu
of setting forth such provisions in the Partnership Agreement.

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements
herein contained and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt,
adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto,
intending legally to be bound, hereby agree as follows:

     1. DEFINITIONS. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms and
phrases shall have the meanings set forth below:

          "AFFILIATE" shall have the meaning set forth in the Partnership
     Agreement.

          "ANNUAL LIMITATION" shall have the meaning set forth in. Section 6
     hereof.

          "BENEFICIALLY OWN" shall mean the ownership of shares of Common Stock
     by a Person who would be treated as an owner of such shares of Common Stock
     either directly or constructively through the application of Section 544 of
     the Code, as modified by Section 856(h)(1)(B) of the Code.

          "CHARTER" shall mean the Certificate of Incorporation of the REIT as
     filed with the Delaware Secretary of State, as the same may be amended from
     time to time.

2

"COMMON STOCK" shall have the meaning set forth in the preliminary
     statement hereof.

          "COMPUTATION DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7
     hereof.

          "CONVERSION COMPONENT EXERCISE NOTICE" shall have the meaning set
     forth in Section 3(a) hereof.

          "CONVERSION FACTOR" shall, subject to adjustment as provided in
     Section 15 hereof, mean 1.0.

          "CONVERSION RIGHTS" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)
     hereof.

          "CODE" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

          "CURRENT PER SHARE MARKET PRICE" shall have the meaning set forth in
     the Partnership Agreement.

          "ELECTION NOTICE" shall mean the written notice to be given by the
     REIT to the Exercising Partners in response to the receipt by the REIT of a
     Sale Component Exercise Notice from such Exercising Partners, the form of
     which Election Notice is attached hereto as Schedule B.

          "EXCHANGE ACT" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
     amended, or any successor statute.

          "EXERCISE NOTICE" shall mean a Conversion Component Exercise Notice or
     a Sale Component Exercise Notice.

          "EXERCISING PARTNERS" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3
     hereof.

3

"HSR ACT" shall mean the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act
     of 1976, as amended.

          'LIENS" shall have the meaning set forth in the Partnership Agreement.

          "LIMITED PARTNERSHIP REPRESENTATIVES" shall have the meaning set forth
     in the Partnership Agreement.

          "MAJORITY-IN-INTEREST OF THE LIMITED PARTNERS" shall mean Limited
     Partner(s) who hold in the aggregate more than fifty-percent (50%) of the
     Percentage Interests then allocable to and held by the Limited Partners.

          "OFFERED UNITS" shall mean the Units of the Exercising Partners
     identified in a Conversion Component Exercise Notice or a Sale Component
     Exercise Notice which, pursuant to the exercise of Conversion Rights or
     Sale Rights, can be acquired by the REIT under the terms hereof.

          "OWNERSHIP LIMIT" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5
     hereof.

          "PERCENTAGE INTERESTS" shall have the meaning set forth in the
     Partnership Agreement.

          "PERSON" shall mean any natural person, corporation, partnership,
     trust or other entity.

          "PROPERTY PARTNERSHIPS" shall have the meaning set forth in the
     Partnership Agreement.

          "PURCHASE PRICE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.

4

"REIT SHARES" shall mean shares of the Common Stock.

          "RIGHTS" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2 hereof.

          "SALE COMPONENT EXERCISE NOTICE" shall have the meaning set forth in
     Section 3(b) hereof.

          "SALE RIGHTS" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b) hereof.

          "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.

          "SECURITIES ACT" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or
     any successor statute.

          "STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN" shall have the meaning set forth, in the
     Partnership Agreement.

          "TRANSACTION EXPENSES" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9
     hereof.

          "UNITS" shall mean, with respect to any Limited Partner, the units in
     the Partnership owned by such Limited Partner.

     2. GRANT OF RIGHTS. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions contained
herein, the REIT hereby grants to the Limited Partners (and their successors and
assigns) the right to convert all or a portion of their Units (including
fractional Units) into REIT Shares and, once the Conversion Rights have, been
exercised to the fullest extent permissible hereunder, to sell all or a portion
of the remainder of their Units (including fractional Units) to the REIT
(collectively the "Rights").

5

3. DELIVERY OF EXERCISE NOTICES. Any one or more Limited Partners
("Exercising Partners") may, subject to the limitations set forth herein:

          (a) deliver to the REIT written notice (the "Conversion Component
     Exercise Notice") pursuant to which such Exercising Partners elect to
     exercise their Rights to convert (the "Conversion Rights"), subject to the
     limitations contained in Sections 4 and 5 hereof, all or any portion of
     their Units (including fractional units) into the number of REIT Shares
     equal to the product of (i) the number of Units as to which the Conversion
     Rights are being exercised and (ii) the Conversion Factor; and

          (b) deliver to the REIT written notice (the "Sale Component Exercise
     Notice") pursuant to which such Exercising Partners elect to exercise their
     Rights to sell (the "Sale Rights"), subject to the limitations contained in
     Sections 4 and 6 hereof, all or any portion of their Units (including
     fractional Units) to the REIT (or the REIT's designee).

     4. LIMITATIONS ON DELIVERY OF EXERCISE NOTICES. The ability of Limited
Partners to exercise Rights shall be restricted as follows:

          (a) Only one (1) Exercise Notice may be delivered to the REIT during
     any calendar year; provided, however, such Exercise Notice may be delivered
     by or on behalf of one or more Exercising Partners;

          (b) Exercise Notices may only be delivered on or after April 1 of any
     calendar year; and.

          (c) The first Sale Component Exercise Notice may not be delivered to
     the REIT prior to April 16, 1996; provided, however, notwithstanding the
     foregoing, the Sale Rights may not be exercised prior to the time that
     Conversion Rights have been exercised to the fullest extent permissible
     under Section 5 below.

     5. LIMITATION ON EXERCISE OF CONVERSION RIGHTS. Conversion Rights may be
exercised at any time and from time to time, subject

6

to the limitations contained in Section 4 above, to the extent that, upon
exercise of the Conversion Rights, the number of REIT Shares Beneficially Owned
by Limited Partners and/or their Affiliates, in the aggregate, including REIT
Shares to be issued in connection with the exercise of such Conversion Rights,
shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the aggregate number of REIT
Shares issued and outstanding (the "Ownership Limit"). For purposes of computing
the Ownership Limit as of any date, the Limited Partners and their Affiliates
shall be deemed to own all REIT Shares issuable to the Limited Partners and
their Affiliates upon the exercise of stock options granted on or before such
date under the Stock Incentive Plan. If a Conversion Component Exercise Notice
is delivered to the REIT but, as a result of the Ownership Limit or as a result
of restrictions contained in the Charter, the Conversion Rights cannot be
exercised in full, the Conversion Component Exercise Notice shall be deemed to
be modified such that the Conversion Rights shall be exercised only to the
extent permitted under the Ownership Limit or under the Charter, with the
remainder of such Conversion Rights being deemed to be Sale Rights with the
corresponding portion of the Conversion Component Exercise Notice being deemed
to be a Sale Component Exercise Notice (or being deemed to have been withdrawn
to the extent a Sale Component Exercise Notice may not yet have been deliverable
pursuant to Section 4(c) above).

7

6. LIMITATION ON EXERCISE OF SALE RIGHTS. Sale Rights may be exercised at
any time and from time to time, subject to the limitations contained in Section
4 hereof, and subject further to the limitation that, in any calendar year,
Offered Units which may, in the aggregate, be the subject of a Sale Component
Exercise Notice shall not exceed the number of Units equal to the quotient of
(a) the number of Units held by all Limited Partners immediately after
Conversion Rights have been exercised to the fullest extent permissible under
Section 5 divided by (b) four (4) (the "Annual Limitation"). In the event
Offered Units which are the subject of a Sale Component Exercise Notice would
exceed the Annual Limitation, the Exercising Partners shall be deemed to have
withdrawn their Sale Component Exercise Notice to the extent necessary such that
the Annual Limitation is not exceeded.

     7. COMPUTATION OF PURCHASE PRICE/FORM OF PAYMENT. The purchase price
("Purchase Price") payable by the REIT to each Exercising Partner with respect
to the exercise of Sale Rights shall be equal to the product of (a) the number
of Offered Units, (b) the Conversion Factor and (c) the Current Per Share Market
Price as of the date that the Exercise Notice was delivered to the REIT (the
"Computation Date"). The Purchase Price shall, in the sole and absolute
discretion of the REIT, be paid in the form of (a) cash or cashier's or
certified check or by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the
Exercising Partners' designated account(s), (b) by the issuance by the REIT of
a number of REIT

8

Shares equal to the product of the (i) number of Offered Units and (ii) the
Conversion Factor or (c) any combination of cash and REIT Shares (such REIT
Shares to be valued at the Current Per Share Market Price).

     8. CLOSING; DELIVERY OF ELECTION NOTICE. The closing of the acquisition of
Offered Units shall, unless otherwise mutually agreed, be held at the principal
offices of the REIT, on the following date(s):

          (a) With respect to the exercise of Conversion Rights, the closing
     shall occur on the date agreed to by the REIT and the Exercising Partners,
     which date shall in no event be later than the date which is the later of
     (i) ten (10) days after the date of the Conversion Component Exercise
     Notice and (ii) the expiration or termination of the waiting period
     applicable to each Exercising Partner, if any, under the HSR Act; and

          (b) With respect to the exercise of Sale Rights, the REIT shall,
     within thirty (30) days after receipt by the REIT of any Sale Component
     Exercise Notice delivered in accordance with the requirements hereof,
     deliver to the Exercising Partners an Election Notice, which Election
     Notice shall set forth the computation of the Purchase Price and shall
     specify the form of the Purchase Price (which shall be in accordance with
     Section 7 hereof) to be paid by the REIT to such Exercising Partners and
     the date, time and location for completion of the purchase and sale of the
     Offered Units, which date shall, to the extent required, in no event be
     more than (i) ten (10) days after delivery by the REIT of the Election
     Notice for Offered Units with respect to which the REIT has elected to pay
     the Purchase Price by issuance of shares of its Common Stock or (ii) sixty
     (60) days after the initial date of receipt by the REIT of the Sale
     Component Exercise Notice for Offered Units with respect to which the REIT
     has elected to pay the Purchase Price in cash; provided, however, that such
     sixty (60) day period may be extended for an additional period to the
     extent required for the REIT to cause additional REIT Shares to be issued
     to provide financing to be used to acquire the Offered Units.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the REIT agrees to use its best efforts to
     cause the closing of the acquisition of Offered Units hereunder to occur as
     quickly as possible.

9

9. ADJUSTMENT TO PURCHASE PRICE. If, with respect to the exercise of Sale
Rights, the REIT elects to pay all or any portion of the Purchase Price in cash
and if as a result thereof the REIT elects to raise such cash through a public
offering of its securities, borrowings or otherwise, the aggregate Purchase
Price computed under Section 7 above for a given calendar year shall be reduced
by an amount ("Transaction Expenses") equal to the expenses incurred by the REIT
in connection with such raising of funds allocable to the amounts required to
pay the Purchase Price hereunder; provided, however, notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Purchase Price shall not be reduced hereunder by an amount
exceeding 5% of the Purchase Price computed without regard to the adjustment for
Transaction Expenses.

     10. CLOSING DELIVERIES. At the closing of the acquisition of Offered Units,
payment of the Purchase Price or delivery of REIT Shares shall be accompanied by
proper instruments of transfer and assignment and by the delivery of (i)
representations and warranties of (A) the Exercising Partners with respect to
their due authority to sell all of the right, title and interest in and to such
Offered Units to the REIT and with respect to the status of the Offered Units
being sold, free and clear of all Liens, and (B) the REIT with respect to due
authority for the purchase of such Offered Units, and (ii) to the extent that
any REIT Shares are issued in connection therewith, (A) an opinion of counsel
for the REIT, reasonably satisfactory to the Exercising Partners, to the

10

effect that such REIT Shares have been duly authorized, are validly issued,
fully-paid and non-assessable, and (B) a stock certificate or certificates
evidencing the REIT Shares to be issued and registered in the name of the
Exercising Partner or its designee.

     11. TERM OF RIGHTS. The rights of the parties hereunder commenced on April
16, 1993 and shall lapse for all purposes and in all respects on April 16, 2023;
provided, however, that the parties hereto shall continue to be bound by an
Exercise Notice delivered to the REIT prior to such date.

     12. ADDITIONAL COVENANTS OF THE REIT. To facilitate the REIT's ability to
fully perform its obligations hereunder, the REIT covenants and agrees as
follows:

          (a) At all times during the pendency of the Rights, the REIT shall
     reserve for issuance such number of REIT Shares as may be necessary to
     enable the REIT to issue REIT Shares upon the exercise of the Conversion
     Rights in regard to all Units of the Limited Partners which are from time
     to time outstanding.

          (b) As long as the REIT shall be obligated to file periodic reports
     under the Exchange Act, the REIT will timely file such reports in such
     manner as shall enable any recipient of Common Stock issued to Limited
     Partners hereunder in reliance upon an exemption from registration under
     the Securities Act to continue to be eligible to utilize Rule 144
     promulgated by the SEC pursuant to the Securities Act, or any successor
     rule or regulation or statute thereunder, for the resale thereof.

          (c) During the pendency of the Rights, the Limited Partner
     Representatives shall receive in a timely manner all reports filed by the
     REIT with the SEC and all other communications transmitted from time to
     time by the REIT to its stockholders generally.

          (d) The REIT shall not issue or sell any REIT Shares or other equity
     securities or any instrument convertible into any

11

equity security for a consideration less than the fair value of such REIT
     Shares or other equity security, as determined in each case by the Board of
     Directors of the REIT, in consultation with the REIT's professional
     advisors.

          (e) Notwithstanding the REIT's determination as to the form in which
     the Purchase Price shall be payable, the REIT shall be required to pay the
     Purchase Price, or, in lieu of issuing REIT Shares upon the exercise of
     Conversion Rights, pay an amount equal to the product of (i) the number of
     REIT Shares to be issued and (ii) the Current Per Share Market Price as of
     the Computation Date, by cashier's check or wire transfer of immediately
     available funds to the extent that issuance of REIT Shares would disqualify
     the REIT from being characterized as a REIT.

     13. ADDITIONAL COVENANTS OF LIMITED PARTNERS. Each Limited Partner
covenants and agrees with the REIT that all Offered Units tendered to the REIT
in accordance with the exercise of Rights herein provided shall be delivered to
the REIT free and clear of all Liens and should any Liens exist or arise with
respect to such Offered Units, the REIT shall be under no obligation to acquire
the same unless, in connection, with such acquisition, the REIT has elected to
pay such portion of the Purchase Price in the form of cash consideration in
circumstances where such consideration will be sufficient to cause such existing
Lien to be discharged in full upon application of all or a part of such
consideration and the REIT is expressly authorized to apply such portion of the
Purchase Price as may be necessary to satisfy any indebtedness in full and to
discharge such Lien in full. Each Limited Partner further agrees that, in the
event any state or local property transfer tax is payable as a result of the
transfer of its Offered Units to the

12

REIT (or its designee), such Limited Partner shall assume and pay such transfer
tax.

     14. ARBITRATION. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
Agreement, all claims, disputes and controversies between any of the parties
hereto arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be resolved by
binding arbitration in New York, New York, in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Article XII of the Partnership Agreement and, to the extent not
inconsistent herewith and therewith, the Expedited Procedures and Commercial
Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association. Any decision rendered
by the arbitration panel pursuant to this Section 14 shall be final and binding
on the parties hereto, and judgment thereon may be entered by any state or
federal court of competent jurisdiction. Arbitration shall be the exclusive
method available for resolution of claims, disputes and controversies described
in this Section 14, and the parties hereto stipulate that the provisions hereof
shall be a complete defense to any suit, action, or proceeding in any court or
before any administrative or arbitration tribunal with respect to any such
claim, controversy or dispute.

     15. ADJUSTMENT TO CONVERSION FACTOR. The Conversion Factor shall be
subject to adjustment from time to time effective upon the occurrence of the
following events and shall be expressed as a percentage, calculated to the
nearest one-thousandth of one percent (.001%):

          (a) In case the REIT shall pay or make a dividend or other
     distribution on any class of shares of beneficial

13

interest of the General Partner in REIT Shares, the Conversion Factor in
     effect at the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for
     the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or
     other distribution shall be increased by multiplying the Conversion Factor
     by a fraction (i) the denominator of which shall be the number of REIT
     Shares outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such
     determination and (ii) the numerator of which shall be the sum of such
     number of REIT Shares specified in clause (i) plus the total number of REIT
     Shares constituting such dividend or other distribution, such increase to
     become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day
     following the date fixed for such determination.

          (b) In case outstanding REIT Shares shall be subdivided into a greater
     number of REIT Shares, the Conversion Factor in effect at the opening of
     business on the day following the day upon which such subdivision becomes
     effective shall, be proportionately increased, and, conversely, in case
     outstanding REIT Shares shall be combined into a smaller number of REIT
     Shares, the Conversion Factor in effect at the opening of business on the
     day following the day upon which such combination becomes effective shall
     be proportionately reduced, such increase or reduction, as the case may be,
     to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day
     following the day upon which such subdivision or combination becomes
     effective.

          (c) In the event that the REIT issues or distributes evidences of
     indebtedness, equity securities or other property to existing equity
     holders or others or any rights, options or warrants to acquire such
     evidences of indebtedness or equity securities (other than an issuance or
     distribution described in subsection (a) of this Section 15, an issuance of
     indebtedness or equity securities all of the proceeds of which are, or are
     deemed to be, contributed or loaned to the Partnership (other than a pro
     rata portion thereof contributed to the Property Partnerships in respect of
     the REIT's interest therein), an issuance of REIT Shares pursuant to the
     Stock Incentive Plan or a distribution paid entirely in cash), the
     Conversion Factor shall be adjusted and/or the securities to which the
     Limited Partners are entitled hereunder shall be adjusted, to the extent
     necessary, to avoid any dilution or material adverse change in the rights
     of the Limited Partners under this Agreeement.

     16. CONSOLIDATION, MERGER OR SALE OF ASSETS. The REIT shall not effect any
merger, consolidation, reorganization, share

14

exchange, recapitalization or the like unless fair and equitable arrangements
are provided, to the extent necessary, to fully adjust, and to avoid any
dilution in, the rights of the Limited Partners under this Agreement.

     17. NOTICES. All notices, offers or other communications required or
permitted to be given pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and may be
personally served, telecopied or sent by United States mail and shall be deemed
to have been given when delivered in person, upon receipt of telecopy or three
business days after deposit in United States mail, registered or certified,
postage prepaid, and properly addressed, by or to the appropriate party. For
purposes of this Section 17, the addresses of the parties hereto shall be as set
forth in the Partnership Agreement. The address of any party hereto may be
changed by a notice in writing given in accordance with the provisions hereof.

     18. ASSIGNMENT. No party hereto may assign this Agreement or its rights
hereunder; provided, however, that the rights of any Limited Partner hereunder
shall automatically devolve upon any Person to the extent that such Person
succeeds to the rights of such Limited Partner to Units in accordance with the
Partnership Agreement.

     19. SUCCESSORS. This Agreement and all the terms and provisions hereof
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of all parties hereto, and
their legal representatives,

15

heirs, successors and permitted assigns, except as expressly herein otherwise
provided.

     20. EFFECT AND INTERPRETATION. This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in conformity with the laws of the State of Delaware.

     21. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in counter parts, each of
which shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same
instrument.

     22. ENTIRE UNDERSTANDING; ETC. This Agreement constitutes the entire
agreement and understanding among the parties hereto with respect to the subject
matter hereof and supersedes any prior understandings and/or written or oral
agreements among them with respect thereto, including, but not limited to, the
Original Partnership Agreement.

     23. AMENDMENTS. This Agreement may not be amended, and no provision
benefiting the REIT may be waived, except by a written instrument signed by the
REIT (and approved on behalf of the REIT by at least a majority of its directors
who are not Affiliates of any of the Limited Partners) and a
Majority-In-Interest of the Limited Partners.

     24. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement, or the application of
such provision to any person or circumstance, shall be held invalid by a court
of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this Agreement, or the application
of such provision to persons

16

or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid by such court,
shall not be affected thereby.

     25. TRUST PROVISION. This Agreement, to the extent executed by the trustee
of a trust, is executed by such trustee solely as trustee and not in a separate
capacity. Nothing herein contained shall create any liability on, or require the
performance of any covenant by, any such trustee individually, nor shall
anything contained herein subject the individual personal property of any
trustee to any liability.

     26. PRONOUNS AND HEADINGS. As used herein, all pronouns shall include the
masculine, feminine and neuter, and all defined terms shall include the singular
and plural thereof wherever the context and facts require such construction. The
headings, titles and subtitles herein are inserted for convenience of reference
only and are to be ignored in any construction of the provisions hereof. Any
references in this Agreement to "including" shall be deemed to mean "including
without limitation".

     27. FURTHER ASSURANCES. Each of the parties hereto shall hereafter execute
and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts and things as may
be required or useful to carry out the intent and purpose of this Agreement and
as are not inconsistent with the terms hereof.

17

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the
date first above written.

REIT:

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.,
a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Martin Bucksbaum
    ---------------------------------
Its:
     --------------------------------

LIMITED PARTNERS:

APPLETON TRUST

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY,
    Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

FALLBROOK TRUST

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY,
    Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

MARTIN INVESTMENT TRUST A

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY,
    Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

18

MARTIN INVESTMENT TRUST B

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

MARTIN INVESTMENT TRUST C

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

MARTIN INVESTMENT TRUST D

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

By: MARTIN INVESTMENT TRUST E

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

MARTIN INVESTMENT TRUST F

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

MATTHEW INVESTMENT TRUST A

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

19

MATTHEW INVESTMENT TRUST B

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

MATTHEW INVESTMENT TRUST C

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

MATTHEW INVESTMENT TRUST D

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

MATTHEW INVESTMENT TRUST E

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

MATTHEW INVESTMENT TRUST F

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

MBA TRUST

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

20

MBB TRUST

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

MBC TRUST

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

FALLBROOK INVESTORS, a California
general partnership

By: MATTHEW FAMILY TRUST A, a partner

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

M.B. CAPITAL PARTNERS, a South
Dakota general partnership

By: MBA TRUST, a partner

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

MB CAPITAL PARTNERS, II, a South
Dakota general partnership

By: MBA TRUST, a partner

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, Trustee

By: /s/ General Trust Company
    ---------------------------------
Its: VICE PRES

21

STANLEY RICHARDS REVOCABLE TRUST

By: /s/ Stanley Richards
    ---------------------------------
    Stanley Richards, Trustee

22

SCHEDULE A

                                 EXERCISE NOTICE

To: General Growth Properties, Inc.

     Reference is made to that certain Rights Agreement dated __________, 1993
(the "Rights Agreement"), pursuant to which General Growth Properties, Inc., a
Delaware corporation (the "REIT"), granted certain rights to the undersigned to
convert or sell to the REIT all or a portion of their partnership units (the
"Units") of GGP Limited Partnership (the "Partnership"). Capitalized terms used
but not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Rights
Agreement. Pursuant to Sections 2 and 3 of the Rights Agreement, each of the
undersigned, being a limited partner of the Partnership (an "Exercising
Partner"), hereby elects to exercise its Conversion Rights and/or Sale Rights as
to the number of Units set forth below:

Dated:
       --------------------

Type of Rights Being
                           Exercised
                      (Conversion Rights
Exercising Partner      or Sale Rights)     Number of Units
- ------------------   --------------------   ---------------

Exercising Partners:

_____________________________________

_____________________________________

SCHEDULE B

                                 ELECTION NOTICE

To: Exercising Partners

     Reference is made to that certain Rights Agreement dated _________, 1993
(the "Rights Agreement"), pursuant to which the undersigned granted certain
rights to the other parties thereto, including the Exercising Partners, to
convert and/or sell their partnership units (the "Units") in GGP Limited
Partnership (the "Partnership"). All capitalized terms used but not defined
herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Rights Agreement. Pursuant to
subsection (b) of Section 8 of the Rights Agreement, the undersigned hereby
notifies the Exercising Partners that (a) the Purchase Price for the Offered
Units as to which the Sale Rights are being or are deemed to be exercised is
$_________________, the computation of which is set forth on an attachment
hereto; (b) $__________________ of the Purchase Price is payable in cash and the
balance thereof is payable by issuance of _________________________________
shares of Common Stock; and (c) the closing of the purchase and sale of the
Offered Units as to which the Sale Rights are being or are deemed to be
exercised shall take place at the offices of__________________________ at
______________ a.m., local time, on ______________________.

Dated:
       --------------------

                                        GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.,
                                        a Delaware corporation

By:
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Its:
                                             -----------------------------------

</EX-4.2>

<EX-4.4>
 6
 c02442exv4w4.txt
 REDEMPTION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 4.4

                           REDEMPTION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

     Redemption Rights Agreement, dated July 13, 1995, among GGP Limited
Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the "Partnership"), General Growth
Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "General Partner"), and the
persons whose names are set forth under the caption "Contributing Partners" on
the signature pages hereto (collectively, "Contributing Partners").

                                    RECITALS

     WHEREAS, concurrently herewith, Contributing Partners are being admitted as
limited partners of the Partnership, the general partner of which is the General
Partner;

     WHEREAS, shares of the common stock, $.10 par value per share, of the
General Partner (the "Common Stock") are listed on the New York Stock Exchange;
and

     WHEREAS, the parties desire to set forth herein the terms and conditions
upon which the Contributing Partners can cause the Partnership to redeem their
limited partnership units in the Partnership.

     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:

     1. Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall
have the meanings set forth below:

     "Acts" shall mean the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, collectively.

     "Bucksbaum Limited Partners" shall have the meaning set forth in the
Partnership Agreement.

     "Business Day" shall mean any day upon which commercial banks are open for
business in Chicago, Illinois.

     "Cash Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to any redeemed or purchased
Units, an amount of cash equal to the value of the Share Purchase Price
(computed as of the Computation Date and equal to the Current Per Share Market
Price on such Computation Date multiplied by the number of Shares) that would be
payable with respect to such Units assuming the Share Purchase Price were paid
in full satisfaction of the Purchase Price of such Units.

"Closing Price" shall have the meaning set forth in the Partnership
Agreement.

     "Common Stock" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.

     "Computation Date" shall mean the date on which the applicable Exercise
Notice is received by the Partnership or, if such date is not a Business Day,
the first Business Day thereafter.

     "Conversion Factor" shall mean 100%, provided that such factor shall be
adjusted in accordance with Section 6(a).

     "Certificate of Incorporation" shall mean the Certificate of Incorporation
of the General Partner, as the same may be amended from time to time.

     "Contribution Agreement" shall mean that certain Contribution Agreement
dated June 7, 1995, among the Partnership and Contributing Partners, pursuant to
which this Agreement is being executed.

     "Current Per Share Market Price" shall have the meaning set forth in the
Partnership Agreement.

     "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
or any successor statute.

     "Exchange Act Reporting Company" shall mean any corporation or other entity
which is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.

     "Expiration Date" shall mean the earlier of (a) the 30th anniversary of the
date hereof and (b) the date upon which all Units have been redeemed or
purchased in accordance with the terms hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Contributing Partners shall continue to have the right to have their Units
redeemed or purchased and the General Partner shall have the obligation to
register Shares (if the Contributing Partners then hold Units and the General
Partner then is an Exchange Act Reporting Company) in accordance with this
Agreement during any period of time that any other present or future holder of
limited partnership units in the Partnership has any right to convert its units
into Shares or require the Partnership to redeem them in exchange for cash or
Shares and the Partnership shall give Contributing Partners no less than 30
days' written

2

notice of the expiration or termination of the rights of such other present or
future holders.

     "Liens" shall have the meaning set forth in the Contribution Agreement.

     "Major Transaction Event" shall mean, with respect to the General Partner,
(a) a reclassification, capital reorganization or other similar change regarding
or affecting outstanding Shares (other than a change addressed in Section 6(a));
(b) a merger or consolidation of the General Partner with one or more other
corporations or entities, other than a merger pursuant to which the General
Partner is the surviving corporation and the outstanding Shares are not
affected, (c) a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the
General Partner's assets.

     "Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.

     "Partnership Agreement" shall mean that certain Amended and Restated
Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership, dated July 27, 1993, as
amended by that certain First Amendment thereto dated the date hereof and as the
same may be further amended from time to time.

     "Person" shall mean any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, trust or other entity.

     "Purchase Price" shall mean the Cash Purchase Price or the Share Purchase
Price, or a combination thereof.

     "Redemption Rights" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.

     "REIT Requirements" shall have the meaning set forth in the Partnership
Agreement.

     "Registration Expenses" shall mean all expenses incident to the General
Partner's performance of or compliance with the registration requirements set
forth in this Agreement, including without limitation (a) the fees,
disbursements and expenses of the General Partner's counsel and accountants in
connection with the registration of Shares issuable upon the exercise of the
Redemption Rights; (b) all expenses in connection with the preparation, printing
and filing of the registration statement or statements, any preliminary
prospectus or final prospectus, any other offering document and amendments and
supplements

3

thereto; (c) the cost of printing or producing any blue sky or legal investment
memoranda or other documents in connection with the offering, sale or delivery
of such Shares; (d) all expenses in connection with the qualification of such
Shares under state securities laws; and (e) the fees and expenses incurred in
connection with the listing of such Shares on each securities exchange on which
securities of the same class are then listed. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Registration Expenses shall not include any costs incurred by the Partnership or
the General Partner in preparing any document that is incorporated by reference
in a registration statement or any professional fee or other expenses that would
have been incurred apart from the obligation of the General Partner hereunder to
file a Registration Statement.

     "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.

     "Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any
successor statute.

     "Share Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to the exercise of any
Redemption Rights, a number of Shares equal to the product of (a) the number of
Units being redeemed or purchased multiplied by (b) the Conversion Factor.

     "Shares" shall mean shares of the Common Stock.

     "Units" shall mean the limited partnership units in the Partnership issued
to Contributing Partners pursuant to the Contribution Agreement.

     2. Grant of Redemption Rights.

     (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions contained herein, the
Partnership does hereby grant to each Contributing Partner, and each
Contributing Partner does hereby accept, the right, but without obligation to
such Contributing Partner, to require the Partnership to redeem from time to
time part or all of its Units for the Cash Purchase Price ("Redemption Rights").

     (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2(a), the General Partner
may, in its sole and absolute discretion, assume the obligation of the
Partnership with respect to and satisfy a Contributing Partner's exercise of a
Redemption Right by paying to the exercising Contributing Partner, at the
General Partner's election (which may be exercised in the General Partner's sole
discretion), either the Cash Purchase Price or the Share

4

Purchase Price. If the General Partner assumes such obligations with respect to
an exercise of a Redemption Right and makes the required payment, then the
Partnership shall have no obligation to pay any amount to the Contributing
Partner with respect to such Contributing Partner's exercise of a Redemption
Right, and any Units purchased shall be owned by the General Partner for all
purposes.

     (c) If the General Partner shall assume the obligations of the Partnership
with respect to and satisfy a Redemption Right, the Partnership, the exercising
Contributing Partner and the General Partner each shall treat the transaction
between the General Partner and such Contributing Partner as a sale of such
Contributing Partner's Units (or a portion thereof) to the General Partner for
federal income tax purposes.

     (d) Upon the redemption or purchase of part or all of a Contributing
Partner's Units and the payment of the Purchase Price with respect thereto, such
Person shall be deemed withdrawn as a Partner in the Partnership to the extent
of the Units redeemed or purchased and shall have no further rights or
obligations under this Agreement with respect to such redeemed or purchased
Units.

     (e) No fractional Shares shall be issued hereunder; in lieu of fractional
Shares, the General Partner shall pay cash based on the Current Per Share Market
Price on the relevant Computation Date.

     3. Exercise of Redemption Rights.

     3.1 Time for Exercise of Redemption Rights. A Contributing Partner may
exercise its Redemption Rights in whole or in part and at any time and from time
to time on or after the first anniversary of the date hereof but prior to the
Expiration Date; provided, however, that the Redemption Rights may not be
exercised at any one time with respect to less than 1,000 Units (or all the
Units then owned by the exercising Contributing Partner if such Contributing
Partner owns less than 1,000 Units). Once given, a Notice shall be irrevocable
subject to the payment of the Purchase Price for the Units specified therein in
accordance with the terms hereof.

     3.2 Method of Exercise. The Redemption Rights shall be exercised by written
notice (the "Notice") to the Partnership (a) specifying the identity of the
exercising Contributing Partner, the number of Units to be redeemed, the name or
names

5

(with address) in which any Shares issuable upon such exercise shall be
registered if different than the exercising Contributing Partner and that the
representations and warranties set forth on Schedule A are true and correct and
(b) accompanied by an instrument, duly executed by the exercising Contributing
Partner and in form reasonably satisfactory to the Partnership, transferring
such Units to the Partnership free and clear of all Liens.

     3.3 Closing. The closing of the redemption or purchase and sale pursuant to
an exercise of the Redemption Rights shall occur within 30 days following the
receipt of the Notice and the instrument of transfer referred to in Section 3.2.

     3.4 Payment of Cash or Issuance of Shares. At the closing of the redemption
or purchase and sale of Units pursuant to the exercise of Redemption Rights, the
Partnership shall deliver to the exercising Contributing Partner the Cash
Purchase Price by check or, in the event that the General Partner has assumed
the obligations of the Partnership with respect to such exercise of Redemption
Rights, the General Partner shall deliver to the Partnership, at the election of
the General Partner (which may be exercised in the General Partner's sole
discretion), either (a) the Cash Purchase Price or (b) a certificate
representing the Shares constituting the Share Purchase Price, together with
cash in lieu of the issuance of any fraction of a Share as provided in Section
2(e).

     4. Matters Relating to Shares.

     4.1 Registration.

     (a) The General Partner shall (i) prepare, file and use reasonable best
efforts to cause to become effective on or before the first anniversary of the
date hereof a registration statement, which may be on Form S-3, under the
Securities Act relating to the Shares to be issued upon exercise of the
Redemption Rights assuming full satisfaction of the Redemption Rights by
delivery of Shares (and, in the sole discretion of the General Partner, any
other Shares) and (ii) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and
supplements to such registration statement and the prospectus used in connection
therewith as may be necessary to keep such registration statement effective and
to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act. The General Partner may,
but shall not be obligated to, include any such Shares under its current
registration statement on Form S-3.

6

(b) The General Partner shall pay all Registration Expenses incurred prior
to the sixth anniversary of the date hereof with respect to filing and keeping
effective the registration statement through such date, and the Contributing
Partners who are then Unitholders, severally in proportion to the number of
Units owned by them in relation to the total number of shares covered by the
registration statement, shall reimburse the General Partner for Registration
Expenses which are incurred after the sixth anniversary of the date hereof in
respect of maintaining effective such registration statement; provided, however,
that such Contributing Partners shall not be required to reimburse any costs (i)
of preparing any documents filed with the SEC that are incorporated by reference
in the Registration Statement or (ii) that become necessary because the General
Partner is unable to use Form S-3 (or any equivalent short form that relies on
incorporation by reference) for the reason that the General Partner has failed
to comply on a timely basis with any requirement of the Acts or Form S-3.

     (c) If under the Acts or then current SEC policy, the registration of
Shares delivered pursuant hereto will not permit the public resale thereof
without further registration of such Shares for resale by the Contributing
Partners, the General Partner may deregister the Shares previously registered
for issuance to Contributing Partners pursuant to Section 4.1(a) and shall
register such Shares for resale, which may be accomplished by means of a shelf
registration, and Contributing Partners and the General Partner will enter into
customary agreements with respect thereto which contain provisions similar to
those contained in Section 4.1(a) and (b) (except that after the sixth
anniversary of the date hereof, the Contributing Partners whose Shares are being
registered for resale shall pay, severally in proportion to the number of their
Shares registered in relation to the total number of shares covered by the
registration statement, the Registration Expenses) and other customary
provisions, including customary indemnification agreements.

     (d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the General
Partner shall have no obligation to keep such registration statement effective
after the Expiration Date or if the status of the General Partner (or its
successor) as an Exchange Act Reporting Company is terminated.

     (e) If the General Partner does not use reasonable best efforts, or despite
using its reasonable best efforts is unable, to cause such registration
statement to become effective on or before the second anniversary of the date
hereof or the General

7

Partner thereafter does not maintain such registration statement in accordance
with the terms hereof (unless the Contributing Partners have defaulted
hereunder), the General Partner shall have no right to deliver the Share
Purchase Price upon exercise of Redemption Rights during the time when such
registration statement is not so effective and in that event the Partnership or
the General Partner must deliver the Cash Purchase Price for Units as to which
Redemption Rights have been exercised.

     4.2 Reservation of Shares. At all times while the Redemption Rights are
outstanding, the General Partner shall reserve for issuance such number of
Shares as may be necessary to enable the General Partner to issue Shares in full
satisfaction of all Redemption Rights which are from time to time outstanding
(assuming no limitations as to the ownership of such Shares under the
Certificate of Incorporation which relate to compliance with the REIT
Requirements and that the General Partner elected to pay the Share Purchase
Price with respect to all such Redemption Rights).

     4.3 Fully Paid and Non-Assessable. All Shares which may be issued upon
exercise of the Redemption Rights upon issue shall be duly and validly issued
and fully paid and non-assessable.

     5. Transfer and Other Taxes. In the event that any state or local property
transfer or other tax is payable as the result of or in connection with any
exercise of the Redemption Rights by an exercising Contributing Partner, the
Partnership shall pay such transfer tax, but the exercising Contributing Partner
shall pay such tax to the extent that such tax results from registration of
Shares in the name of a person other than the registered owner of the Units and
no Shares shall be issued pursuant hereto until such exercising Contributing
Partner has paid to the General Partner the amount of such tax or has provided
evidence, in form reasonably satisfactory to the General Partner, as to the
payment thereof.

     6. Anti-Dilution and Adjustment Provisions.

     (a) If the General Partner or the Partnership increases or decreases the
number of its issued and outstanding Shares or limited partnership units, as the
case may be, by means of (i) the payment of a stock dividend or the making of
any other distribution on the Shares (or limited partnership units) payable in
its Common Stock (or limited partnership units), (ii) a subdivision of Shares or
limited partnership units or (iii) a

8

consolidation or combination of Shares or limited partnership units, the
Conversion Factor shall be adjusted so as to result in the Redemption Rights not
being diluted or expanded thereby.

     (b) If at any time the General Partner grants to its stockholders any right
to subscribe pro rata for additional securities of the General Partner, whether
Common Stock or other classifications, or for any other securities or interests
that Contributing Partners would have been entitled to subscribe for if,
immediately prior to such grant, Contributing Partners had exercised their
Redemption Rights and received the Share Purchase Price in payment thereof, in
lieu of any readjustment under any other subsection of this Section 6, then the
General Partner also shall grant to Contributing Partners the same subscription
rights that Contributing Partners would be entitled to if Contributing Partners
had exercised their Redemption Rights in full and received the Share Purchase
Price in satisfaction thereof prior to such grant.

     (c) Upon the occurrence of a Major Transaction Event where all or a portion
of the consideration received by stockholders of the General Partner in
connection with such Major Transaction Event is in the form of securities in a
successor entity, the General Partner shall cause effective provision to be made
so that, upon exercise of the Redemption Rights and payment of the Purchase
Price by means of the Share Purchase Price, Contributing Partners shall have the
right thereafter to acquire, in lieu of the Shares which would have been
surrendered therefor, the kind and amount of shares of stock and other
securities and property and interests as would be issued or payable with respect
to or in exchange for the number of Shares constituting the Share Purchase Price
as if such Redemption Rights had been exercised and the General Partner had
satisfied the Redemption Rights by delivery of the Share Purchase Price
immediately before such Major Transaction Event.

     (d) In the event of any Major Transaction Event where no portion of the
consideration received by stockholders of the General Partner in connection with
such Major Transaction Event is in the form of securities in a successor entity,
each Unitholder shall be entitled to exercise the Redemption Rights in full
prior to the consummation of such Major Transaction Event, and, with respect to
any Shares acquired upon exercise thereof, shall be entitled to all of the
rights of the other holders of Shares with respect to any distribution by the
General Partner (or the other party to such Major Transaction Event) in
connection with such Major Transaction Event. If not

9

exercised within forty-five days after written notice from the General Partner
of such Major Transaction Event (which shall be given promptly after such Major
Transaction Event is announced to the public) or such shorter period between the
date of such notice and the effective date of such Major Transaction Event, the
Redemption Rights shall terminate at the expiration of such period, but the
Redemption Rights shall be revived if such Major Transaction Event is not
consummated.

     (e) The provisions of this Section 6 shall apply to successive events that
may occur from time to time but only shall apply to a particular event if it
occurs prior to the exercise in full of the Redemption Rights or the liquidation
of the Partnership.

     (f) Whenever the Conversion Factor is adjusted as herein provided, the
General Partner shall compute the adjusted Conversion Factor in accordance with
Section 6 and shall prepare a certificate signed by the chief financial officer
of the General Partner setting forth the adjusted Conversion Factor and showing
in reasonable detail the facts upon which such adjustment is based, and such
certificate shall forthwith be filed at the offices of the General Partner and
mailed to the holders of the Redemption Rights within 30 days of the date of the
adjustment.

     (g) Notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, the Contributing
Partners will be entitled to adjustments to protect against dilution, and to
protect against deferral of receipt of benefits, that are no less favorable than
the adjustments and protection against deferral of receipt of benefits which are
received by any other holder of limited partnership units in the Partnership.

     7. Miscellaneous Provisions.

     7.1 Notices. All notices or other communications given pursuant to this
Agreement shall be sent to the party to whom or to which such notice is being
sent, by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, commercial
overnight delivery service or facsimile or delivered by hand with receipt
acknowledged in writing. All notices (a) shall be deemed given when received and
(b) may be given either by a party or by such party's attorneys. For purposes of
this Section 7.1, the addresses of the parties shall be, in the case of the
Partnership and the General Partner, 215 Keo Way, Des Moines, Iowa 50309,
Attention: Martin Bucksbaum, and, in the case of

10

Contributing Partners, as set forth on the records of the Partnership. The
address of any party may be changed by a notice in writing given in accordance
with the provisions hereof.

     7.2 Assignment. Contributing Partners may not assign this Agreement or
their rights hereunder; provided, however, that the rights of Contributing
Partners hereunder (including the Redemption Rights) shall automatically devolve
upon any Person to the extent that such Person holds Units, and becomes a
substituted partner with respect to such Units, in accordance with the
Partnership Agreement and delivers to the Partnership a written instrument, in
form reasonably satisfactory to the Partnership, pursuant to which such Person
agrees to be bound by the terms hereof. Subject to the provisions of Section 6,
the General Partner may assign this Agreement without the consent of
Contributing Partners, provided that no such assignment shall relieve the
General Partner of its obligation to file and maintain effective a registration
statement for the Shares as set forth herein or to make the required payment of
the Cash Purchase Price.

     7.3 Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the
benefit of, the parties and their successors and permitted assigns, except as
expressly herein otherwise provided.

     7.4 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Delaware (without regard to its conflicts of law principles).

     7.5 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one document.

     7.6 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among
the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior
written or oral understandings and/or agreements among them with respect
thereto.

     7.7 Pronouns; Headings; Etc.  As used herein, all pronouns shall include
the masculine, feminine and neuter, and all terms shall include the singular
and plural thereof wherever the context and facts require such construction.
The headings herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are to
be ignored in any construction of the provisions hereof.  Any

11

references in this Agreement to a "Section" or "Schedule" shall refer to a
Section or Schedule of this Agreement unless otherwise specified.

     7.8 Survival. The representations, warranties and covenants contained
herein or made pursuant hereto shall survive the execution and delivery of this
Agreement and the issuance of Shares pursuant hereto.

     7.9 Further Assurances. Each of the parties shall hereafter execute and
deliver such other instruments and documents and do such further acts and things
as may be required or useful to carry out the purposes of this Agreement.

     7.10 No Right of Set-off. Notwithstanding any claim that the Partnership or
the General Partner may have against any Contributing Partner not arising under
this Agreement, each of the Partnership and the General Partner shall perform
all of its obligations under this Agreement without asserting any right of
setoff, counterclaim or similar justification for non-performance of its
obligations under this Agreement as the result of any such claim against such
Contributing Partner.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the date
first above written.

GENERAL PARTNER:

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.,
a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Bernard Freibaum
    ---------------------------------
Its: Executive Vice President

12

CONTRIBUTING PARTNERS:

PIEDMONT MALL ASSOCIATES                PPP ASSOCIATES, L.P.

By: STROUSE, GREENBERG-DANVILLE         By: PIEDMONT MALL ASSOCIATES
    ASSOCIATES, general partner             general partner

By: /s/ Joseph Straus, Jr.              By: STROUSE, GREENBERG-
    ---------------------------------       DANVILLE ASSOCIATES,
    Joseph Straus, Jr.                      general partner
    Co-Managing Partner

By: /s/ Brent M. Milgrom                By: /s/ Joseph Straus, Jr.
    ---------------------------------       ------------------------------------
    Brent M. Milgrom                        Joseph Straus, Jr.
    Co-Managing Partner                     Co-Managing Partner

By: /s/ Brent M. Milgrom
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Brent M. Milgrom
                                            Co-Managing Partner

By: GDC DANVILLE ASSOCIATES,            By: GDC DANVILLE ASSOCIATES, L.P.,
    L.P., general partner                   general partner

By: GDC DANVILLE GENERAL                By: GDC DANVILLE GENERAL CORP.,
    CORP., general partner                  general partner

By: /s/ Brent Milgrom                   By: /s/ Brent Milgrom
    ---------------------------------       ------------------------------------
    Brent Milgrom,                          Brent Milgrom,
    President                               President

13

MP ASSOCIATES L.P.                      HP ASSOCIATES, L.P.

By: PIEDMONT MALL ASSOCIATES,           By: PIEDMONT MALL ASSOCIATES,
    general partner                         general partner

By: STROUSE, GREENBERG-                 By: STROUSE, GREENBERG-
    DANVILLE ASSOCIATES,                    DANVILLE ASSOCIATES,
    general partner                         general partner

By: /s/ Joseph Straus, Jr.              By: /s/ Joseph Straus, Jr.
    ---------------------------------       ------------------------------------
    Joseph Straus, Jr.                      Joseph Straus, Jr.
    Co-Managing Partner                     Co-Managing Partner

By: /s/ Brent M. Milgrom                By: /s/ Brent M. Milgrom
    ---------------------------------       ------------------------------------
    Brent M. Milgrom                        Brent M. Milgrom,
    Co-Managing Partner                     Co-Managing Partner

By: GDC DANVILLE ASSOCIATES,            By: GDC DANVILLE ASSOCIATES, L.P.,
    L.P., general partner                   general partner

By: GDC DANVILLE GENERAL                By: GDC DANVILLE GENERAL CORP.,
    CORP., general partner                  general partner

By: /s/ Brent Milgrom                   By: /s/ Brent Milgrom
    ---------------------------------       ------------------------------------
    Brent Milgrom,                          Brent Milgrom,
    President                               President

14

SCHEDULE A

                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

Exercising Contributing Partner has good and marketable title to the Units
desired to be converted into Shares by it, free and clear of all Liens, it has
full power and capacity to transfer such Units, any documents executed in
connection with any such transfer are valid and binding and enforceable against
it in accordance with their terms and such transfer does not conflict with or
result in the breach by it of any agreement or instrument to which it is a party
or by which it is bound or any laws, regulations, ordinances, judgments or
decrees to which it is subject.

</EX-4.4>

<EX-4.5>
 7
 c02442exv4w5.txt
 REDEMPTION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

Exhibit 4.5

                                    EXHIBIT D

                           REDEMPTION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

     Redemption Rights Agreement, dated December 6, 1996, among GGP Limited
Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the "Partnership"), General Growth
Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "General Partner"), and the
parties whose names are set forth under the caption "Contributing Partners" on
the signature pages hereof (collectively, "Contributing Partners").

                                    RECITALS

     WHEREAS, concurrently herewith, Contributing Partners are being admitted as
limited partners of the Partnership, the general partner of which is the General
Partner;

     WHEREAS, shares of common stock, $.10 par value per share, of the General
Partner (the "Common Stock") are listed on the New York Stock Exchange; and

     WHEREAS, the parties desire to set forth herein the terms and conditions
upon which the Contributing Partners may cause the Partnership to redeem their
limited partnership units in the Partnership.

     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:

     1. Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall
have the meanings set forth below:

     "Acts" shall mean the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, collectively.

     "Affiliates" shall mean, with respect to any Contributing Partner, the
"Affiliates" of such Contributing Partner as defined in the Contribution
Agreement between the Partnership and such Contributing Partner.

     "Business Day" shall mean any day upon which commercial banks are open for
business in Chicago, Illinois.

     "Cash Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to any redeemed or purchased
Units, an amount of cash equal to the value of the Share Purchase Price
(computed as of the Computation Date and equal to the Current Per Share Market
Price on such Computation Date multiplied by the number of Shares) that would be
payable with respect to such Units assuming the Share Purchase Price were paid
in full satisfaction of the

Purchase Price of such Units. In the event that the
Share Purchase Price includes securities other than Shares, then the value of
such other securities shall be determined by the General Partner acting in good
faith on the basis of the closing prices of securities if listed on a nationally
recognized exchange and otherwise on the basis of such quotations and other
information as the General Partner considers, in its reasonable judgment,
appropriate.

     "Certificate of Incorporation" shall mean the Certificate of Incorporation
of the General Partner, as the same may be amended from time to time.

     "Closing Price" shall have the meaning set forth in the Partnership
Agreement.

     "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any
successor code.

     "Common Stock" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.

     "Computation Date" shall mean the date on which the applicable Notice is
received by the Partnership or, if such date is not a Business Day, the first
Business Day thereafter.

     "Conversion Factor" shall mean 100%, provided that such factor shall be
adjusted in accordance with Section 6(a).

     "Contribution Agreements" shall mean the Contribution Agreements each dated
the date hereof, and each between the Partnership and one of Contributing
Partners, as the same have been and may hereafter be amended from time to time,
pursuant to which this Agreement is being executed.

     "Current Per Share Market Price" shall have the meaning set forth in the
Partnership Agreement.

     "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
or any successor statute.

     "Exchange Act Reporting Company" shall mean any corporation or other entity
which is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.

2

"Expiration Date" shall mean the earlier of (a) April 16, 2023 (b) the date
upon which all Units have been redeemed or purchased in accordance with the
terms hereof.

     "Forbes/Cohen Units" shall mean any and all Units that are owned directly
or indirectly through one or more partnerships by Sidney Forbes and/or Maurice
Cohen on the date hereof.

     "Liens" shall have the meaning set forth in the Contribution Agreement.

     "Major Transaction Event" shall mean, with respect to the General Partner,
(a) a reclassification, capital reorganization or other similar change regarding
or affecting outstanding Shares (other than a change addressed in Section 6(a));
(b) a merger or consolidation of the General Partner with one or more other
corporations or entities, other than a merger pursuant to which the General
Partner is the surviving corporation and the outstanding Shares are not
affected, (c) a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the
General Partner's assets or (d) the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the General Partner.

     "Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2.

     "Other REIT" shall mean CenterMark Properties, Inc., GGP/Homart, Inc. and
any other REIT in which the General Partner holds a direct or indirect equity
interest and of which Contributing Partners are notified in writing.

     "Partnership Agreement" shall mean that certain Amended and Restated
Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership, dated July 27, 1993, as
amended by that certain First Amendment thereto dated May 23, 1995, that certain
Second Amendment dated June 13, 1995, that certain Third Amendment thereto dated
May 21, 1996 and that certain Fourth Amendment thereto dated August 30, 1996,
that certain Fifth Amendment dated as of October 4, 1996, that certain Sixth
Amendment dated as of November 27, 1996 and as the same may be further amended
through the date of this Agreement.

     "Person" shall mean any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, trust or other entity.

     "Pledge Agreement" shall mean that certain Pledge Agreement of even date
herewith, between the Partnership and Contributing Partners.

3

"Purchase Price" shall mean the Cash Purchase Price or the Share Purchase
Price, or a combination thereof.

     "Purchase Right" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.

     "Redemption Rights" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.

     "REIT" shall mean real estate investment trust as such term is defined
under the Code.

     "REIT Requirements" shall have the meaning set forth in the Partnership
Agreement, as the same may change from time to time.

     "Registration Expenses" shall mean all expenses incident to the General
Partner's performance of or compliance with the registration requirements set
forth in this Agreement, including without limitation (a) the fees,
disbursements and expenses of the General Partner's counsel and accountants in
connection with the registration of Shares issuable upon the exercise of the
Redemption Rights; (b) all expenses in connection with the preparation, printing
and filing of the registration statement or statements, any preliminary
prospectus or final prospectus, any other offering document and amendments and
supplements thereto; (c) the cost of printing or producing any blue sky or legal
investment memoranda or other documents in connection with the offering, sale or
delivery of such Shares; (d) all expenses in connection with the qualification
of such Shares under state securities laws; and (e) the fees and expenses
incurred in connection with the listing of such Shares on each securities
exchange on which securities of the same class are then listed. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, Registration Expenses shall not include (and the General Partner
will pay) any costs incurred by the Partnership or the General Partner in
preparing any document that is incorporated by reference in a registration
statement, or any professional fee or other expenses, that would have been
incurred apart from the obligation of the General Partner hereunder to file a
Registration Statement.

     "Retailer Interest" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.5.

     "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.

     "Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any
successor statute.

4

"Share Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to the exercise of any
Redemption Rights and subject to the provisions of Section 6(c), a number of
Shares equal to the product of (a) the number of Units being redeemed or
purchased multiplied by (b) the Conversion Factor; provided, however, that, in
the event the General Partner, after the date of this Agreement, issues to all
holders of Shares rights, options, warrants or convertible or exchangeable
securities entitling the stockholders to subscribe for or purchase Shares (other
than rights referred to in Section 6(b)) or any other securities or property,
then the Share Purchase Price also shall include such rights, options, warrants
or convertible or exchangeable securities that a holder of that number of Shares
would have been entitled to receive.

     "Shares" shall mean shares of the Common Stock.

     "Units" shall mean the limited partnership units in the Partnership issued
to Contributing Partners pursuant to the Contribution Agreement.

     "Unitholder" shall mean the Person who at the time in question holds one or
more Units in accordance with the Partnership Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time.

     2. Grant of Redemption Rights.

     (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions contained herein, the
Partnership does hereby grant to Contributing Partners, and Contributing
Partners do hereby accept, the right, but without obligation on the part of
Contributing Partners, to require the Partnership to redeem from time to time
part or all of their Units for the Cash Purchase Price ("Redemption Rights").

     (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2(a), the General Partner
may, in its sole and absolute discretion, assume the obligation of the
Partnership with respect to and satisfy a Contributing Partner's exercise of a
Redemption Right by paying to such Contributing Partner, at the General
Partner's election (which may be exercised in the General Partner's sole
discretion), either the Cash Purchase Price or the Share Purchase Price (or a
combination thereof) with respect to the Units for which such Contributing
Partner exercised its Redemption Rights. If the General Partner assumes such
obligations with respect to the exercise by a Contributing Partner of a
Redemption Right as to certain Units and makes the

5

required payment, then the Partnership shall have no obligation to pay any
amount to such Contributing Partner with respect to the exercise of a Redemption
Right for such Units, and any Units purchased shall be owned by the General
Partner for all purposes.

     (c) If the General Partner shall assume the obligations of the Partnership
with respect to and satisfy a Redemption Right, the Partnership, the
Contributing Partner and the General Partner each shall treat the transaction
between the General Partner and Contributing Partner as a sale of Contributing
Partner's Units (or a portion thereof) to the General Partner for federal income
tax purposes.

     (d) Upon the redemption or purchase of part or all of a Contributing
Partner's Units and the payment of the Purchase Price with respect thereto, such
Person shall be deemed withdrawn as a Partner in the Partnership to the extent
of the Units redeemed or purchased and shall have no further rights or
obligations under this Agreement with respect to such redeemed or purchased
Units, provided, however, that Contributing Partner's rights under this
Agreement with regard to any other Units will continue in full force and effect.

     (e) No fractional Shares shall be issued hereunder; in lieu of fractional
Shares, the General Partner shall pay cash based on the Current Per Share Market
Price on the relevant Computation Date.

     3. Exercise of Redemption Rights.

     3.1 Time for Exercise of Redemption Rights. Contributing Partners may
exercise their Redemption Rights in whole or in part and at any time and from
time to time on or after the first anniversary of the date hereof but prior to
the Expiration Date; provided, however, that the Redemption Rights may not be
exercised at any one time by any Contributing Partner with respect to less than
1,000 Units (or all the Units then owned by such Contributing Partner if such
Contributing Partner owns less than 1,000 Units) or in the event that such
exercise of Redemption Rights (and the assignment of Units or delivery of the
Cash Purchase Price or Share Purchase Price with respect thereto) violates the
terms of the Partnership Agreement or applicable law. Once given, a Notice shall
be irrevocable subject to the payment of the Purchase Price for the Units
specified therein in accordance with the terms hereof.

6

3.2 Method of Exercise. The Redemption Rights shall be exercised by written
notice (the "Notice") to the Partnership in the form of Exhibit A specifying the
number of Units to be redeemed and the name or names (with address) in which any
Shares issuable upon such exercise shall be registered if different than the
exercising Contributing Partner.

     3.3 Closing. Subject to the provisions of Section 4.1(d), the closing of
the redemption or purchase and sale pursuant to an exercise of the Redemption
Rights shall occur within 30 days following the giving of the Notice. A
Contributing Partner that has exercised Redemption Rights shall execute such
documents as the General Partner may reasonably require in connection with the
closing of the redemption or purchase and sale pursuant thereto.

     3.4 Payment of Cash or Issuance of Shares. At the closing of the redemption
or purchase and sale of Units pursuant to an exercise of Redemption Rights, the
Partnership shall deliver to Contributing Partner the Cash Purchase Price by
check or, in the event that the General Partner has assumed the obligations of
the Partnership with respect to such exercise of Redemption Rights and subject
to the provisions of Section 4.1(d), the General Partner shall deliver to the
Partnership, at the election of the General Partner, which may be exercised in
the General Partner's sole discretion, either (a) the Cash Purchase Price by
check or (b) certificates representing the Shares and any other securities
constituting the Share Purchase Price, together with cash in lieu of the
issuance of any fraction of a Share as provided in Section 2(e), or a
combination thereof.

     4. Matters Relating to Shares.

     4.1 Registration.

     (a) The General Partner shall (i) prepare, file and use reasonable efforts
to cause to become effective on or before the ninetieth day following the first
anniversary of the date hereof a registration statement, which may be on Form
S-3, under the Securities Act relating to the Shares to be issued upon exercise
of the Redemption Rights assuming full satisfaction of the Redemption Rights by
delivery of Shares (and, in the sole discretion of the General Partner, any
other Shares) and (ii) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and
supplements to such registration statement and the prospectus used in connection
therewith as may be necessary to keep such registration statement effective and
to comply with the

7

provisions of the Securities Act. The General Partner may, but shall not be
obligated to, issue Shares previously registered under its current registration
statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 33-90556).

     (b) The General Partner shall pay all Registration Expenses incurred prior
to the sixth anniversary of the date hereof with respect to filing and keeping
effective the registration statement through such date, and the Unitholders
(other than the Unitholders that have given a notice pursuant to Section 4.1(e))
shall reimburse the General Partner for Registration Expenses (or a pro rata
portion of the Registration Expenses based on the number of Shares issuable to
such Unitholders upon full exercise of the Redemption Rights of such Unitholders
relative to the total number of Shares issuable pursuant to such registration
statement) which are incurred after the sixth anniversary of the date hereof in
respect of maintaining effective (but not the initial filing and causing to
become effective of) such registration statement. The reimbursement of such
expenses by the Unitholders shall be paid upon demand.

     (c) If under the Securities Act or then current SEC policy public resale of
any Shares to be delivered pursuant hereto may not be effected by Contributing
Partners without the registration under the Securities Act of such Shares for
resale and Contributing Partners shall have notified the Partnership of the same
prior to or concurrently with the giving of a Notice by a Contributing Partner
of the exercise of Redemption Rights, the General Partner may, at any time
during the thirty-day period following the giving of such Notice, elect to delay
the closing pursuant to such exercise of Redemption Rights until the ninetieth
day following the giving of such Notice and thereafter use reasonable best
efforts to register for resale the Shares constituting the Share Purchase Price
in respect thereof (assuming full satisfaction of such Redemption Rights by
delivery of Shares), which may be accomplished by means of a shelf registration,
and such Contributing Partner and the General Partner will enter into customary
agreements with respect thereto which contain provisions similar to those
contained in Section 4.1(a) and (b) (except that (i) such registration statement
only shall be maintained until the Shares registered thereunder have been sold
or are eligible for resale under Rule 144(k) promulgated under the Securities
Act and (ii) after the sixth anniversary of the date hereof, the Contributing
Partners whose Shares are being registered for resale under such registration
statement shall pay the Registration Expenses

8

therefor) and other customary provisions, including customary indemnification
agreements.

     (d) If the registration statement referred to in Section 4.1(a) is not
effective on the later of the ninetieth day following the first anniversary of
the date hereof and the closing pursuant to any exercise of Redemption Rights
where Shares are otherwise issuable or the SEC shall not be prepared to declare
effective a registration statement referred to in Section 4.1(c) in respect of
Shares to be issued pursuant to any exercise of Redemption Rights referred to in
such subsection (assuming the full satisfaction of such Redemption Rights by
delivery of the Share Purchase Price) (unless, in either case, the Contributing
Partners have defaulted hereunder), the General Partner shall not have the right
to deliver the Share Purchase Price for Units as to which Redemption Rights have
been exercised, and the General Partner or the Partnership shall deliver the
Cash Purchase Price on the date specified in Section 3.3 or 4.1(c), as the case
may be (but the General Partner shall not otherwise have any liability
therefor).

     (e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, (i) the
General Partner shall have no obligation to keep any registration statement
filed pursuant to this Section 4.1 effective after the Expiration Date and the
provisions of Section 4.1(d) shall not apply if the status of the General
Partner (or its successor) as an Exchange Act Reporting Company is terminated or
any or all of the Unitholders notify the General Partner in writing that the
General Partner no longer need keep such registration statement effective (in
which case such obligation shall be terminated only as to the registration
statement specified in such notice and the Shares that otherwise would be
issuable or have been issued, as the case may be, to the Unitholder(s) that gave
such notice and the provisions of Section 4.1(d) shall not apply only to the
exercise of Redemption Rights by such Unitholders) and (ii) the provisions of
Section 4.1(d) also shall not apply upon an exercise of Redemption Rights as to
Forbes/Cohen Units in the event that the General Partner previously has filed
two registration statements pursuant to Section 4.1(c) for Shares issued upon
the exercise of Redemption Rights as to Forbes/Cohen Units.

     4.2 Reservation of Shares. At all times while the Redemption Rights are
outstanding, the General Partner shall reserve for issuance such number of
Shares as may be necessary to enable the General Partner to issue Shares in full
satisfaction of all Redemption Rights which are from time to

9

time outstanding (assuming no limitations as to the ownership of such Shares
under the Certificate of Incorporation which relate to compliance with the REIT
Requirements and that the General Partner elected to pay the Share Purchase
Price with respect to all such Redemption Rights).

     4.3 Fully Paid and Non-Assessable. All Shares which may be issued upon
exercise of the Redemption Rights upon issue shall be duly and validly issued
and fully paid and non-assessable.

     4.5. Transfer and Other Taxes. In the event that any state or local
property transfer or other tax is payable as the result of or in connection with
any exercise of the Redemption Rights by a Contributing Partner, such
Contributor Partner shall pay such tax, and no Shares shall be issued pursuant
hereto until such Contributor Partner has paid to the General Partner or the
Partnership, as the case may be, the amount of such tax or has provided
evidence, in form reasonably satisfactory to the General Partner or the
Partnership, as the case may be, as to the payment thereof.

     6. Anti-Dilution and Adjustment Provisions.

     (a) The Conversion Factor shall be adjusted in the event that the General
Partner (i) declares or pays a dividend on its outstanding Shares in Shares or
makes a distribution to all holders of its outstanding Shares in Shares, (ii)
subdivides its outstanding Shares, or (iii) combines its outstanding Shares into
a smaller number of Shares. The Conversion Factor shall be adjusted by
multiplying the Conversion Factor by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be
the number of Shares issued and outstanding on the record date for such
dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination (assuming for such purposes
that such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination has occurred as of
such time) and the denominator of which shall be the actual number of Shares
(determined without the above assumption) issued and outstanding on the record
date for such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination. Any adjustment
to the Conversion Factor shall become effective immediately after the effective
date of such event retroactive to the record date, if any, for such event.

     (b) If at any time the General Partner grants to its stockholders any right
to subscribe pro rata for additional securities of the General Partner, whether
Common Stock or other classifications, or for any other securities or interests
that

10

Contributing Partners would have been entitled to subscribe for if, immediately
prior to such grant, Contributing Partners had exercised their Redemption Rights
and received the Share Purchase Price in payment thereof, in lieu of any
adjustment under any other subsection of this Section 6 or other provision of
this Agreement, then the General Partner also shall grant to Contributing
Partners the same subscription rights that Contributing Partners would be
entitled to if Contributing Partners had exercised their Redemption Rights in
full and received the Share Purchase Price in satisfaction thereof prior to such
grant.

     (c) Upon the occurrence of a Major Transaction Event where at least
one-half of the value (as determined in good faith by the General Partner) of
the consideration received by the stockholders of the General Partner in
connection with such Major Transaction Event is in the form of securities in a
successor entity, the General Partner shall cause effective provision to be made
so that, upon exercise of the Redemption Rights and payment of the Purchase
Price by means of the Share Purchase Price, Unitholders shall have the right
thereafter to acquire, in lieu of the Shares which would have been surrendered
therefor, the kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities and
property (and the provisions contained in Section 4.1 shall apply to the extent
that such securities are of a class of securities of the General Partner or its
successor that are registered under the Exchange Act) and interests as would be
issued or payable with respect to or in exchange for the number of Shares
constituting the Share Purchase Price as if such Redemption Rights had been
exercised and the General Partner had satisfied the Redemption Rights by
delivery of the Share Purchase Price immediately before such Major Transaction
Event.

     (d) In the event of any other Major Transaction Event, each Unitholder
shall be entitled to exercise the Redemption Rights in full prior to the
consummation of such Major Transaction Event, and, with respect to any Shares
acquired upon exercise thereof, shall be entitled to all of the rights of the
other holders of Shares with respect to any distribution by the General Partner
(or the other party to such Major Transaction Event) in connection with such
Major Transaction Event. If not exercised within forty-five days after written
notice from the General Partner of such Major Transaction Event or such shorter
period between the date of such notice and the effective date of such Major
Transaction Event, the Redemption Rights shall terminate at the expiration of
such period, but the Redemption

11

Rights shall be revived if such Major Transaction Event is not consummated.

     (e) The Partnership shall give written notice of any Major Transaction
Event promptly after such Major Transaction is announced to the public.

     (f) The provisions of this Section 6 shall apply to successive events that
may occur from time to time but only shall apply to a particular event if it
occurs prior to the exercise in full of the Redemption Rights or the liquidation
of the Partnership. Nothing contained herein shall prevent or otherwise limit
the liquidation of the Partnership pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, as
amended from time to time.

     (g) Whenever the Conversion Factor is adjusted as herein provided, the
General Partner shall compute the adjusted Conversion Factor in accordance with
Section 6 and shall prepare a certificate signed by the chief financial officer
of the General Partner setting forth the adjusted Conversion Factor and showing
in reasonable detail the facts upon which such adjustment is based, and such
certificate shall forthwith be filed at the offices of the General Partner.

     7. Purchase Right.

     7.1 Purchase Right. In the event that the General Partner in good faith
determines at any time that the continued ownership of Units by the holder of
such Units would cause amounts which would otherwise be characterized as "rents
from real property" (within the meaning of Section 865(d)(1) of the Code) to
fail to be so characterized as the result of the ownership or deemed ownership
of any Retailer Interest, the holder of such Units shall dispose of such
Retailer Interest within five Business Days of written notice from the
Partnership. In the absence of such a disposition, the General Partner shall
have the right, but not the obligation (the "Purchase Right"), to purchase all
of the Units then held by such holder upon the terms and subject to the
conditions contained in this Section 7.

     7.2 Method of Exercise. The Purchase Right shall be exercised by written
notice to the holder of the Units to be purchased specifying that the General
Partner has elected to purchase such Units pursuant to Section 7 of this
Agreement.

12

7.3  Purchase Price.  The purchase price for such Units shall be the Cash
Purchase Price with respect to such Units.

     7.4 Closing. The closing of any purchase and sale pursuant to this Section
7 shall occur at the time specified in the notice described in Section 7.2 but
in no event later than 30 days after the giving of such notice. At the closing,
the General Partner shall deliver to the selling Unitholder the Cash Purchase
Price in immediately available funds, and the selling Unitholder shall deliver
to the General Partner an instrument of transfer in form sufficient to transfer
the Units to be transferred, free and clear of all Liens, and containing the
representations and warranties set forth in Exhibit A.

     7.5 Notice of Certain Events. Each Contributing Partner shall provide to
the Partnership a written statement describing the acquisition by it or its
partners or Affiliates of any equity interest in a retailer or other person or
entity which is or could be a potential tenant of the Partnership or of any
Other REIT (a "Retailer Interest").

     8. Miscellaneous Provisions.

     8.1 Notices. All notices or other communications given pursuant to this
Agreement shall be sent to the party to whom or to which such notice is being
sent, by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, commercial
overnight delivery service, facsimile or delivered by hand with receipt
acknowledged in writing. All notices (a) shall be deemed given when received or,
if mailed as described above, after 5 Business Days or, if sent by facsimile,
upon receipt of confirmed answerback and (b) may be given either by a party or
by such party's attorneys. For purposes of this Section 8.1, the addresses of
the parties shall be, in the case of the Partnership and the General Partner, 55
West Monroe Street, Suite 3100, Chicago, Illinois 60603, facsimile number (312)
551-5475, Attention: Matthew Bucksbaum and Bernard Freibaum, and, in the case of
Contributing Partner, as set forth on the records of the Partnership. The
address of any party may be changed by a notice in writing given in accordance
with the provisions hereof.

     8.2 Assignment. Contributing Partners may not assign this Agreement or
their rights hereunder; provided, however, that the rights of Contributing
Partners hereunder (including the Redemption Rights) shall automatically devolve
upon any Person to the extent that such Person holds Units, and becomes a

13

substituted partner with respect to such Units, in accordance with the
Partnership Agreement, as amended from time to time, and delivers to the
Partnership a written instrument, in form reasonably satisfactory to the
Partnership, pursuant to which such Person agrees to be bound by the terms
hereof. Subject to the provisions of Section 6, the General Partner may assign
this Agreement without the consent of Contributing Partners, provided that no
such assignment shall relieve the General Partner of its obligations under this
Agreement.

     8.3 Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the
benefit of, the parties and their successors and permitted assigns, except as
expressly herein otherwise provided.

     8.4 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Delaware (without regard to its conflicts of law principles).

     8.5 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one document.

     8.6 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among
the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior
written or oral understandings and/or agreements among them with respect
thereto.

     8.7 Pronouns; Headings; Etc. As used herein, all pronouns shall include the
masculine, feminine and neuter, and all terms shall include the singular and
plural thereof wherever the context and facts require such construction. The
headings herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are to be
ignored in any construction of the provisions hereof. Any references in this
Agreement to a "Section" or "Schedule" shall refer to a Section or Schedule of
this Agreement unless otherwise specified.

     8.8 Survival. The representations, warranties and covenants contained
herein or made pursuant hereto shall survive the execution and delivery of this
Agreement and the issuance of Shares pursuant hereto.

     8.9 Further Assurances. Each of the parties shall hereafter execute and
deliver such other instruments and

14

documents and do such further acts and things as may be required or useful to
carry out the purposes of this Agreement.

                  [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

15

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the date
first above written.

CONTRIBUTING PARTNERS:

FORBES/COHEN PROPERTIES, a
Michigan general partnership

By: /s/ Maurice Cohen
    ---------------------------------
    Maurice Cohen, partner

By: /s/ Sidney Forbes
    ---------------------------------
    Sidney Forbes, partner

JACKSON PROPERTIES, a
Michigan general partnership

By: Forbes/Cohen Properties, a
    Michigan general partnership,
    partner

By: /s/ Maurice Cohen
    ---------------------------------
    Maurice Cohen, partner

By: /s/ Sidney Forbes
    ---------------------------------
    Sidney Forbes, partner

By: The Frankel Group, a Michigan general
    partnership, a partner

By: /s/ Samuel Frankel
    ---------------------------------
    Samuel Frankel, Trustee under
    Trust Agreement dated 7/9/91,
    partner

By: The Cohn Group, a Michigan general
    partnership, a partner

By: /s/ Avern Cohn
    ---------------------------------
    Avern Cohn, partner

16

LAKEVIEW SQUARE ASSOCIATES, a
Michigan general partnership

By: Forbes/Cohen Properties, a
    Michigan general partnership,
    a partner

By: /s/ Maurice Cohen
    ---------------------------------
    Maurice Cohen, partner

By: /s/ Sidney Forbes
    ---------------------------------
    Sidney Forbes, partner

By: Lakeview Properties, a
    Michigan limited partnership,
    a partner

By: Forbes/Cohen Properties,
    a Michigan general partnership,
    its general partner

By: /s/ Maurice Cohen
    ---------------------------------
    Maurice Cohen, partner

By: /s/ Sidney Forbes
    ---------------------------------
    Sidney Forbes, partner

PARTNERSHIP:

GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
a Delaware limited partnership

By: General Growth Properties, Inc.
    a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
    ---------------------------------
Its Vice President

GENERAL PARTNER:

General Growth Properties, Inc.
a Delaware corporation

17

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
    ---------------------------------
Its Vice President

18

</EX-4.5>

<EX-4.6>
 8
 c02442exv4w6.txt
 REDEMPTION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

Exhibit 4.6

                           REDEMPTION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

     Redemption Rights Agreement, dated June 19th, 1997, among GGP Limited
Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the "Partnership"), General Growth
Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "General Partner"), and CA
Southlake Investors, Ltd., a Georgia limited partnership (collectively,
"Contributing Partner").

                                    RECITALS

     WHEREAS, concurrently herewith, Contributing Partner is being admitted as a
limited partner of the Partnership, the general partner of which is the General
Partner;

     WHEREAS, shares of common stock, $.10 par value per share, of the General
Partner (the "Common Stock") are listed on the New York Stock Exchange; and

     WHEREAS, the parties desire to set forth herein the term and conditions
upon which the Contributing Partner may cause the Partnership to redeem its
limited partnership units in the Partnership.

     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:

     1. Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall
have the meanings set forth below:

     "Acts" shall mean the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, collectively.

     "Affiliates" shall mean "affiliates" as defined pursuant to the Securities
Act.

     "Business Day" shall mean any day upon which commercial banks are open for
business in Chicago, Illinois.

     "Cash Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to any redeemed or purchased
Units, an amount of cash equal to the value of the Share Purchase Price
(computed as of the Computation Date and equal to the Current Per Share Market
Price on such Computation Date multiplied by the number of Shares) that would be
payable with respect to such Units assuming the Share Purchase Price were paid
in full satisfaction of the Purchase Price of such Units. In the event that the
Share Purchase Price includes securities other than Shares, then the value of
such other securities shall be determined by the General Partner acting in good
faith on the basis of the closing prices of securities if listed on a nationally
recognized

exchange and otherwise on the basis of such quotations and other information as
the General Partner considers, in its reasonable judgment, appropriate.

     "Certificate of Incorporation" shall mean the Certificate of Incorporation
of the General Partner, as the same may be amended from time to time.

     "Closing Price" shall have the meaning set forth in the Partnership
Agreement.

     "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any
successor code.

     "Common Stock" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.

     "Computation Date" shall mean the date on which the applicable Notice is
received by the Partnership or, if such date is not a Business Day, the first
Business Day thereafter.

     "Conversion Factor" shall mean 100%, provided that such factor shall be
adjusted in accordance with Section 6(a).

     "Contribution Agreement" shall mean that certain Sale and Contribution
Agreement dated the date hereof, between the Partnership and Contributing
Partner, as the same have been and may hereafter be amended from time to time,
pursuant to which this Agreement is being executed.

     "Current Per Share Market Price" shall have the meaning set forth in the
Partnership Agreement.

     "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
or any successor statute.

     "Exchange Act Reporting Company" shall mean any corporation or other entity
which is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.

     "Expiration Date" shall mean the earlier of (a) April 16, 2023 (b) the date
upon which all Units have been redeemed or purchased in accordance with the
terms hereof.

     "Liens" shall have the meaning set forth in the Contribution Agreement.

2

"Major Transaction Event" shall mean, with respect to the General Partner,
(a) a reclassification, capital reorganization or other similar change regarding
or affecting outstanding Shares (other than a change addressed in Section 6
(a)); (b) a merger or consolidation of the General Partner with one or more
other corporations or entities, other than a merger pursuant to which the
General Partner is the surviving corporation and the outstanding Shares are not
affected, (c) a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the
General Partner's assets or (d) the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the General Partner.

     "Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2.

     "Other REIT" shall mean GGP/Homart, Inc. and any other REIT in which the
General Partner holds a direct or indirect equity interest and of which
Contributing Partner is notified in writing.

     "Partnership Agreement" shall mean that certain Amended and Restated
Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership, dated July 27, 1993, as
amended by that certain First Amendment thereto dated May 23, 1995, that certain
Second Amendment thereto dated June 13, 1995, that certain Third Amendment
thereto dated May 21, 1996, that certain Fourth Amendment thereto dated August
30, 1996, that certain Fifth Amendment thereto dated as of October 4, 1996, that
certain Sixth Amendment thereto dated as of November 27, 1996 and that certain
Seventh Amendment thereto dated December 6, 1996 and as the same may be further
amended through the date of this Agreement.

     "Person" shall mean any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, trust or other entity.

     "Pledge Agreement" shall mean that certain Pledge Agreement of even date
herewith, between the Partnership and Contributing Partner.

     "Purchase Price" shall mean the Cash Purchase Price or the Share Purchase
Price, or a combination thereof.

     "Purchase Right" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.

     "Redemption Rights" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.

3

"REIT" shall mean real estate investment trust as such term is defined
under the Code.

     "REIT Requirements" shall have the meaning set forth in the Partnership
Agreement, as the same may change from time to time.

     "Registration Expenses" shall mean all expenses incident to the General
Partner's performance of or compliance with the registration requirements set
forth in this Agreement, including without limitation (a) the fees,
disbursements and expenses of the General Partner's counsel and accountants,
including the expenses of any special audits or "cold comfort" letters required
by or incident to such performance and compliance, in connection with the
registration of Shares issuable upon the exercise of the Redemption Rights; (b)
all expenses in connection with the preparation and printing of the registration
statement or statements, any preliminary prospectus or final prospectus, any
other offering document and amendments and supplements thereto; (c) the cost of
printing or producing any blue sky or legal investment memoranda or other
documents in connection with the offering, sale or delivery of such Shares; (d)
all expenses in connection with the qualification of such Shares under state
securities laws; (e) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the
listing of such Shares on each securities exchange on which securities of the
same class are then listed and (f) all SEC, stock exchange and National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. registration and filing fees.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Registration Expenses shall not include (and the
General Partner will pay) any costs incurred by the Partnership or the General
Partner in preparing any document that is incorporated by reference in a
registration statement, or any professional fee or other expenses, that would
have been incurred apart from the obligation of the General Partner hereunder to
file a Registration Statement.

     "Retailer Interest" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.5.

     "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.

     "Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any
successor statute.

     "Share Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to the exercise of any
Redemption Rights and subject to the provisions of Section 6(c), a number of
Shares equal to the product of (a) the number of Units being redeemed or
purchased multiplied by

4

(b) the Conversion Factor; provided, however, that, in the event the General
Partner, after the date of this Agreement, issues to all holders of Shares
rights, options, warrants or convertible or exchangeable securities entitling
the stockholders to subscribe for or purchase Shares (other than rights referred
to in Section 6 (b)) or any other securities or property, then the Share
Purchase Price also shall include such rights, options, warrants or convertible
or exchangeable securities that a holder of that number of Shares would have
been entitled to receive.

     "Shares" shall mean shares of the Common Stock.

     "Units" shall mean the limited partnership units in the Partnership issued
to Contributing Partner pursuant to the Contribution Agreement.

     "Unitholder" shall mean the Person who at the time in question holds one or
more Units in accordance with the Partnership Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time.

     2. Grant of Redemption Rights.

     (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions contained herein, the
Partnership does hereby grant to Contributing Partner, and Contributing Partner
does hereby accept, the right, but without obligation on the part of
Contributing Partner, to require the Partnership to redeem from time to time
part or all of their Units for the Cash Purchase Price ("Redemption Rights").

     (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2(a), the General Partner
may, in its sole and absolute discretion, assume the obligation of the
Partnership with respect to and satisfy Contributing Partner's exercise of a
Redemption Right by paying to Contributing Partner, at the General Partner's
election (which may be exercised in the General Partner's sole discretion),
either the Cash Purchase Price or the Share Purchase Price (or a combination
thereof) with respect to the Units for which Contributing Partner exercised its
Redemption Rights. If the General Partner assumes such obligations with respect
to the exercise by Contributing Partner of a Redemption Right as to certain
Units and makes the required payment within the required period of time, then
the Partnership shall have no obligation to pay any amount to Contributing
Partner with respect to the exercise of a Redemption Right for such Units,

5

and any Units purchased shall be owned by the General Partner for all purposes.

     (c) If the General Partner shall assume the obligations of the Partnership
with respect to and satisfy a Redemption Right, the Partnership, the
Contributing Partner and the General Partner each shall treat the transaction
between the General Partner and Contributing Partner as a sale of Contributing
Partner's Units (or a portion thereof) to the General Partner for federal income
tax purposes.

     (d) Upon the redemption or purchase of part or all of Contributing
Partner's Units and the payment of the Purchase Price with respect thereto, such
Person shall be deemed withdrawn as a Partner in the Partnership to the extent
of the Units redeemed or purchased and shall have no further rights or
obligations under this Agreement with respect to such redeemed or purchased
Units; provided, however, that Contributing Partner's rights under this
Agreement with regard to any other Units will continue in full force and effect.

     (e) No fractional Shares shall be issued hereunder. In lieu of fractional
Shares, the General Partner shall pay cash based on the Current Per Share
Market price on the relevant Computation Date.

     3. Exercise of Redemption Rights.

     3.1 Time for Exercise of Redemption Rights. Contributing Partner may
exercise its Redemption Rights in whole or in part and at any time and from time
to time on or after the first anniversary of the date hereof but prior to the
Expiration Date; provided, however, that the Redemption Rights may not be
exercised at any one time by Contributing Partner with respect to less than
1,000 Units (or all the Units then owned by Contributing Partner if Contributing
Partner owns less than 1,000 Units) or in the event that such exercise of
Redemption Rights (and the assignment of Units or delivery of either the Cash
Purchase Price or the Share Purchase Price with respect thereto) violates the
terms of the Partnership Agreement or applicable law. Once given, a Notice
shall be irrevocable subject to the payment of the Purchase Price for the Units
specified therein in accordance with the terms hereof.

     3.2 Method of Exercise. The Redemption Rights shall be exercised by written
notice (the "Notice") to the Partnership in the form of Exhibit A specifying the
number of Units to be

6

redeemed and the name or names (with address) in which any Shares issuable upon
such exercise shall be registered if different than the Contributing Partner.

     3.3 Closing. Subject to the provisions of Section 4.1(d), the closing of
the redemption or purchase and sale pursuant to an exercise of the Redemption
Rights shall occur within 30 days following the giving of the Notice.
Contributing Partner shall execute such documents as the General Partner may
reasonably require in connection with the closing of the redemption or purchase
and sale pursuant thereto.

     3.4 Payment of Cash or Issuance of Shares. At the closing of the redemption
or purchase and sale of Units pursuant to an exercise of Redemption Rights, the
Partnership shall deliver to Contributing Partner the Cash Purchase Price by
check or, in the event that the General Partner has assumed the obligations of
the Partnership with respect to such exercise of Redemption Rights, the General
Partner shall deliver to the Partnership, at the election of the General
Partner, which may be exercised in the General Partner's sole discretion, either
(a) the Cash Purchase Price by check or (b) certificates representing the Shares
and any other securities constituting the Share Purchase Price, together with
cash in lieu of the issuance of any fraction of a Share as provided in Section
2(e), or a combination thereof.

     4. Matters Relating to Shares.

     4.1 Registration.

     (a) The General Partner shall (i) prepare, file and use reasonable efforts
to cause to become effective on or before the ninetieth day following the first
anniversary of the date hereof a registration statement, which may be on Form
S-3, under the Securities Act relating to the Shares to be issued upon exercise
of the Redemption Rights assuming full satisfaction of the Redemption Rights by
delivery of Shares and (ii) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and
supplements to such registration statement and the prospectus used in connection
therewith as may be necessary to keep such registration statement effective and
to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act.

     (b) The General Partner shall pay all Registration Expenses incurred prior
to the sixth anniversary of the date hereof with respect to filing and keeping
effective the registration

7

statement through such date, and the Unitholders (other than the Unitholders
that have given a notice pursuant to Section 4.1(c)) shall reimburse the General
Partner for Registration Expenses (or a pro rata portion of the Registration
Expenses based on the number of Shares issuable to such Unitholders upon full
exercise of the Redemption Rights of such Unitholders relative to the total
number of Shares issuable pursuant to such registration statement) which are
incurred after the sixth anniversary of the date hereof in respect of
maintaining effective (but not the initial filing and causing to become
effective of) such registration statement. The reimbursement of such expenses by
the Unitholders shall be paid upon demand.

     (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the General
Partner shall have no obligation to keep any registration statement filed
pursuant to this Section 4.1 effective after the Expiration Date or if the
status of the General Partner (or its successor) as an Exchange Act Reporting
Company is terminated or all of the Unitholders notify the General Partner in
writing that the General Partner no longer need keep such registration statement
effective.

     4.2 Reservation of Shares. At all times while the Redemption Rights are
outstanding, the General Partner shall reserve for issuance such number of
Shares as may be necessary to enable the General Partner to issue Shares in full
satisfaction of all Redemption Rights which are from time to time outstanding
(assuming no limitations as to the ownership of such Shares under the
Certificate of Incorporation which relate to compliance with the REIT
Requirements and that the General Partner elected to pay the Share Purchase
Price with respect to all such Redemption Rights).

     4.3 Fully Paid and Non-Assessable. All Shares which may be issued upon
exercise of the Redemption Rights shall be duly and validly issued and fully
paid and non-assessable.

     5. Transfer and Other Taxes. In the event that any state or local property
transfer or other tax is payable as the result of or in connection with any
exercise of the Redemption Rights by Contributing Partner, Contributor Partner
shall pay such tax, and no Shares shall be issued pursuant hereto until such
Contributor Partner has paid to the General Partner or the Partnership, as the
case may be, the amount of such tax or has provided evidence, in form reasonably
satisfactory to the General Partner or the Partnership, as the case may be, as
to the payment thereof.

8

6. Anti-Dilution and Adjustment Provisions.

     (a) The Conversion Factor shall be adjusted in the event that the General
Partner (i) declares or pays a dividend on its outstanding Shares in Shares or
makes a distribution to all holders of its outstanding Shares in Shares, (ii)
subdivides its outstanding Shares, or (iii) combines its outstanding Shares into
a smaller number of Shares. The Conversion Factor shall be adjusted by
multiplying the Conversion Factor by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be
the number of Shares issued and outstanding on the record date for such
dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination (assuming for such purposes
that such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination has occurred as of
such time) and the denominator of which shall be the actual number of Shares
(determined without the above assumption) issued and outstanding on the record
date for such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination. Any adjustment
to the Conversion Factor shall become effective immediately after the effective
date of such event retroactive to the record date, if any, for such event.

     (b) If at any time the General Partner grants to its stockholders any right
to subscribe pro rata for additional securities of the General Partner, whether
Common Stock or other classifications, or for any other securities or interests
that Contributing Partner would have been entitled to subscribe for if,
immediately prior to such grant, Contributing Partner had exercised its
Redemption Rights and received the Share Purchase Price in payment thereof, in
lieu of any adjustment under any other subsection of this Section 6 or other
provision of this Agreement, then the General Partner also shall grant to
Contributing Partner the same subscription rights that Contributing Partner
would be entitled to if Contributing Partner had exercised its Redemption Rights
in full and received the Share Purchase Price in satisfaction thereof prior to
such grant.

     (c) Upon the occurrence of a Major Transaction Event where at least
one-half of the value (as determined in good faith by the General Partner) of
the consideration received by the stockholders of the General Partner in
connection with such Major Transaction Event is in the form of securities in a
successor entity, the General Partner shall cause effective provision to be made
so that, upon exercise of the Redemption Rights and payment of the Purchase
Price at any time following such Major Transaction Event by means of the Share
Purchase Price, Unitholders shall have the right to acquire, in lieu of

9
 
p
the Shares which would have been surrendered therefor, the kind and amount of
shares of stock and other securities and property (and the provisions contained
in Section 4.1 shall apply anew to the extent that such securities are of a
class of securities of the General Partner or its successor that are registered
under the Exchange Act) and interests as would be issued or payable with respect
to or in exchange for the number of Shares constituting the Share Purchase Price
as if such Redemption Rights had been exercised and the General Partner had
satisfied the Redemption Rights by delivery of the Share Purchase Price
immediately before such Major Transaction Event.

     (d) In the event of any other Major Transaction Event, each Unitholder
shall be entitled to exercise the Redemption Right in full prior to the
consummation of such Major Transaction Event, and, with respect to any Shares
acquired upon exercise thereof, shall be entitled to all of the rights of the
other holders of Shares with respect to any distribution by the General
Partner (or the other party to such Major Transaction Event) in connection
with such Major Transaction Event. If not exercised within forty-five days
after written notice from the General Partner of such Major Transaction Event
or such shorter period between the date of such notice and the effective date
of such Major Transaction Event, the Redemption Rights shall terminate at
the expiration of such period, but the Redemption Rights shall be revived if
such Major Transaction Event is not consummated.

     (e) The Partnership shall give written notice of any Major Transaction
Event promptly after such Major Transaction is announced to the public.

     (f) The provisions of this Section 6 shall apply to successive events that
may occur from time to time but only shall apply to a particular event if it
occurs prior to the exercise in full of the Redemption Rights or the liquidation
of the Partnership. Nothing contained herein shall prevent or otherwise limit
the liquidation of the Partnership pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, as
amended from time to time.

     (g) Whenever the Conversion Factor is adjusted as herein provided, the
General Partner shall compute the adjusted Conversion Factor in accordance with
Section 6 and shall prepare a certificate signed by the chief financial officer
of the General Partner setting forth the adjusted Conversion Factor and showing
in reasonable detail the facts upon which such

10

adjustment is based, and such certificate, shall forthwith be filed at the
offices of the General Partner.

     7. Purchase Right.

     7.1 Purchase Right. In the event that the General Partner in good faith
determines at any time that the continued ownership of Units by the holder of
such Units would cause amounts which would otherwise be characterized as "rents
from real property" (within the meaning of Section 856(d)(1) of the Code) to
fail to be so characterized as the result of the ownership or deemed ownership
of any Retailer Interest, the holder of such Units shall dispose of such
Retailer Interest within five Business Days of written notice from the
Partnership. In the absence of such a disposition, the General Partner shall
have the right, but not the obligation (the "Purchase Right"), to purchase all
of the Units then held by such holder upon the terms and subject to the
conditions contained in this Section 7.

     7.2 Method of Exercise. The Purchase Right shall be exercised by written
notice to the holder of the Units to be purchased specifying that the General
Partner has elected to purchase such Units pursuant to Section 7 of this
Agreement.

     7.3 Purchase Price. The purchase price for such Units shall be the Cash
Purchase Price with respect to such Units.

     7.4 Closing. The closing of any purchase and sale pursuant to this Section
7 shall occur at the time specified in the notice described in Section 7.2 but
in no event later than 30 days after the giving of such notice. At the closing,
the General Partner shall deliver to the selling Unitholder the Cash Purchase
Price in immediately available funds, and the selling Unitholder shall deliver
to the General Partner an instrument of transfer in form sufficient to transfer
the Units to be transferred, free and clear of all Liens, and containing the
representations and warranties set forth in Exhibit A.

     7.5 Notice of Certain Events. Contributing Partner promptly shall provide
to the Partnership a written statement describing the acquisition by it or its
partners or Affiliates of any equity interest in a retailer or other person or
entity which is or could be a potential tenant of the Partnership or of any
Other REIT (a "Retailer Interest"), and Contributing Partner represents and
warrants that neither Contributing Partner nor

11

any of its partners or Affiliates currently owns any such Retailer Interest.

     8. Miscellaneous Provisions.

     8.1 Notices. All notices or other communications given pursuant to this
Agreement shall be sent to the party to whom or to which such notice is being
sent, by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, commercial
overnight delivery service, facsimile or delivered by hand with receipt
acknowledged in writing. All notices (a) shall be deemed given when received or,
if mailed as described above, after 5 Business Days or, if sent by facsimile,
upon receipt of confirmed answerback and (b) may be given either by a party or
by such party's attorneys. For purposes of this Section 8.1, the addresses of
the parties shall be, in the case of the Partnership and the General Partner, 55
West Monroe Street, Suite 3100, Chicago, Illinois 60603, facsimile number (312)
551- 5475, Attention: Matthew Bucksbaum and Bernard Freibaum, and, in the case
of Contributing Partner, as set forth on the records of the Partnership. The
address of any party may be changed by a notice in writing given in accordance
with the provisions hereof.

     8.2 Assignment. The rights of Contributing Partner hereunder (including the
Redemption Rights) shall automatically devolve upon any Person to the extent
that such Person holds Units, and becomes a substituted partner with respect to
such Units, in accordance with the Partnership Agreement, as amended from time
to time, and delivers to the Partnership a written instrument, in form
reasonably satisfactory to the Partnership, pursuant to which such Person agrees
to be bound by the terms hereof (but the rights of Contributing Partner
hereunder are not otherwise assignable). Subject to the provisions of Section 6,
the General Partner may assign this Agreement without the consent of
Contributing Partner, provided that no such assignment shall relieve the General
Partner of its obligations under this Agreement.

     8.3 Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the
benefit of, the parties and their successors and permitted assigns.

     8.4 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Delaware (without regard to its conflicts of law principles).

12

8.5 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one document.

     8.6 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among
the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior
written or oral understandings and/or agreements among them with respect
thereto.

     8.7 Pronouns; Headings; Etc. As used herein, all pronouns shall include the
masculine, feminine and neuter, and all terms shall include the singular and
plural thereof wherever the context and facts require such construction. The
headings herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are to be
ignored in any construction of the provisions hereof. Any references in this
Agreement to a "Section" or "Exhibit" shall refer to a Section or Exhibit of
this Agreement unless otherwise specified.

     8.8 Survival. The representations, warranties and covenants contained
herein or made pursuant hereto shall survive the execution and delivery of this
Agreement and the issuance of Shares pursuant hereto.

     8.9 Further Assurances. Each of the parties shall hereafter execute and
deliver such other instruments and documents and do such further acts and things
as may be required or useful to carry out the purposes of this Agreement.

                  [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

13

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the date
first above written.

CONTRIBUTING PARTNER:

CA SOUTHLAKE INVESTORS, LTD., a
Georgia limited partnership

By: /s/ Daniel B. Rather
    ---------------------------------
Its General Partner

PARTNERSHIP:

GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
a Delaware limited partnership

By: General Growth Properties, Inc.
    a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
    ---------------------------------
Its Vice President

GENERAL PARTNER:

General Growth Properties, Inc.
a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
    ---------------------------------
Its Vice President

EXHIBIT A

                              Notice of Redemption

     The undersigned hereby irrevocably (i) exercises its Redemption Rights as
to _________________ units of limited partnership interest (the "Units") in GGP
Limited Partnership (the "Partnership") in accordance with the terms of that
certain Redemption Rights Agreement, dated __________________, 1997 (the
"Agreement"), among the Partnership, General Growth Properties, Inc. (the
"General Partner"), and the other parties thereto, (ii) transfers and surrenders
such Units and all right, title and interest of the undersigned therein to the
party, which shall be either the Partnership or the General Partner, that shall
purchase or redeem such Units pursuant to the Agreement, and (iii) directs that
the Cash Purchase Price or Share Purchase Price payable upon exercise of the
Redemption Right be delivered to the address specified below and, if the Share
Purchase Price is to be delivered, the Shares shall be registered or placed in
the name(s) and at the address(es) specified below.

     The undersigned hereby represents, warrants, certifies and agrees (i) that
the undersigned has unencumbered title to the Units, free and clear of all
Liens, (ii) that the undersigned has the full right, power and authority to
transfer and surrender the Units as provided herein and such transfer and
surrender has been authorized by all necessary action, and (iii) that the
undersigned has obtained the consent or approval of all persons or entities, if
any, having the right to consent to or approve such transfer and surrender.

Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings set
forth in the Agreement.

Dated:
       ------------------------------

                                        Name:
                                              ----------------------------------

----------------------------------------
                                        (Signature of Limited Partner)

                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        (Street Address)

                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        City (State (Zip Code)

                                        Signature Guaranteed by

----------------------------------------

If Shares are to be issued, issue to:

Please insert social security or identifying number:

</EX-4.6>

<EX-4.7>
 9
 c02442exv4w7.txt
 REDEMPTION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

Exhibit 4.7

                           REDEMPTION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

     Redemption Rights Agreement, dated October 23, 1997, among GGP Limited
Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the "Partnership"), General Growth
Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "General Partner"), and Peter D.
Leibowits (collectively, "Contributing Partner").

                                    RECITALS

     WHEREAS, concurrently herewith, Contributing Partner is being admitted as a
limited partner of the Partnership, the general partner of which is the General
Partner;

     WHEREAS, shares of common stock, $.10 par value per share, of the General
Partner (the "Common Stock") are listed on the New York Stock Exchange; and

     WHEREAS, the parties desire to set forth herein the terms and conditions
upon which the Contributing Partner may cause the Partnership to redeem his
limited partnership units in the Partnership.

     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:

     I. Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall
have the meanings set forth below:

     "Acts" shall mean the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, collectively.

     "Affiliates" shall mean "affiliates" as defined pursuant to the Securities
Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder.

     "Business Day" shall mean any day upon which commercial banks are open for
business in Chicago, Illinois.

     "Cash Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to any redeemed or purchased
Units, an amount of cash equal to the value of the Share Purchase Price
(computed as of the Computation Date and equal to the Current Per Share Market
Price on such Computation Date multiplied by the number of Shares) that would be
payable with respect to such Units assuming the Share Purchase Price were paid
in full satisfaction of the Purchase Price of such Units. In the event that the
Share Purchase Price includes securities other than Shares, then the value of
such other securities shall be determined by the General Partner acting in good
faith on the basis of the closing prices of securities if listed on a nationally
recognized exchange and otherwise on the basis of such quotations and other

information as the General Partner considers, in its reasonable judgment,
appropriate.

     "Certificate of Incorporation" shall mean the Certificate of Incorporation
of the General Partner, as the same may be amended from time to time.

     "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any
successor code.

     "Common Stock" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.

     "Computation Date" shall mean the date on which the applicable Notice is
received by the Partnership or, if such date is not a Business Day, the first
Business Day thereafter.

     "Conversion Factor" shall mean 100%, provided that such factor shall be
adjusted in accordance with Section 6(a).

     "Contribution Agreement" shall mean that certain Contribution Agreement
dated September 25, 1997, among the Partnership, the General Partner and
Contributing Partner, as the same has been and may hereafter be amended from
time to time, pursuant to which this Agreement is being executed.

     "Current Per Share Market Price" shall have the meaning set forth in the
Partnership Agreement.

     "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
or any successor statute.

     "Exchange Act Reporting Company" shall mean any corporation or other entity
which is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.

     "Expiration Date" shall mean the earlier of (a) April 16, 2023 and (b) the
date upon which all Units have been redeemed or purchased in accordance with the
terms hereof.

     "Liens" shall have the meaning set forth in the Contribution Agreement.

     "Major Transaction Event" shall mean, with respect to the General Partner,
(a) a reclassification, capital reorganization or other similar change regarding
or affecting outstanding Shares (other than a change addressed in Section 6(a));
(b) a

2

merger or consolidation of the General Partner with one or more other
corporations or entities, other than a merger pursuant to which the General
Partner is the surviving corporation and the outstanding Shares are not
affected, (c) a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the
General Partner's assets or (d) the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the General Partner.

     "Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2.

     "Partnership Agreement" shall mean that certain Amended and Restated
Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership, dated July 27, 1993, as
amended by that certain First Amendment thereto dated May 23, 1995, that certain
Second Amendment thereto dated June 13, 1995, that certain Third Amendment
thereto dated May 21, 1996, that certain Fourth Amendment thereto dated August
30, 1996, that certain Fifth Amendment thereto dated as of October 4, 1996, that
certain Sixth Amendment thereto dated as of November 27, 1996, that certain
Seventh Amendment thereto dated December 6, 1996, that certain Eighth Amendment
thereto dated June 19, 1997, that certain Ninth Amendment thereto dated as of
August 8, 1997, that certain Tenth Amendment thereto dated as of September 8,
1997, that certain Eleventh Amendment thereto dated as of September 11, 1997 and
that certain Twelfth Amendment thereto dated October 15, 1997 and as the same
may be further amended.

     "Person" shall mean any natural person, corporation, partnership,
association, limited liability company, trust or other entity.

     "Purchase Price" shall mean the Cash Purchase Price or the Share Purchase
Price, or a combination thereof.

     "Purchase Right" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.

     "Redemption Rights" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.

     "REIT" shall mean real estate investment trust as such term is defined
under the Code.

     "REIT Requirements" shall have the meaning set forth in the Partnership
Agreement, as the same may change from time to time.

3

"Registration Expenses" shall mean all expenses incident to the General
Partner's performance of or compliance with the registration requirements set
forth in this Agreement, including without limitation (a) the fees,
disbursements and expenses of the General Partner's counsel and accountants in
connection with the registration of Shares issuable upon the exercise of the
Redemption Rights; (b) all expenses in connection with the preparation and
printing of the registration statement or statements, any preliminary prospectus
or final prospectus, any other offering document and amendments and supplements
thereto; (c) the cost of printing or producing any blue sky or legal investment
memoranda or other documents in connection with the offering, sale or delivery
of such Shares; (d) all expenses in connection with the qualification of such
Shares under state securities laws; (e) the fees and expenses incurred in
connection with the listing of such Shares on each securities exchange on which
securities of the same class are then listed and (f) all SEC, stock exchange and
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. registration and filing fees.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Registration Expenses shall not include (and the
General Partner will pay) any costs incurred by the Partnership or the General
Partner in preparing any document that is incorporated by reference in a
registration statement, or any professional fee or other expenses, that would
have been incurred apart from the obligation of the General Partner hereunder to
file a Registration Statement.

     "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.

     "Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any
successor statute.

     "Share Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to the exercise of any
Redemption Rights and subject to the provisions of Section 6(c), a number of
Shares equal to the product of (a) the number of Units being redeemed or
purchased multiplied by (b) the Conversion Factor; provided, however, that, in
the event the General Partner, after the date of this Agreement, issues to all
holders of Shares rights, options, warrants or convertible or exchangeable
securities entitling the stockholders to subscribe for or purchase Shares (other
than rights referred to in Section 6(b)) or any other securities or property,
then the Share Purchase Price also shall include such rights, options, warrants
or convertible or exchangeable securities that a holder of that number of Shares
would have been entitled to receive.

     "Shares" shall mean shares of the Common Stock.

4

"Units" shall mean the limited partnership units in the Partnership issued
to Contributing Partner pursuant to the Contribution Agreement.

     "Unitholder" shall mean the Person who at the time in question holds one or
more Units in accordance with the Partnership Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time.

     2. Grant of Redemption Rights.

     (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions contained herein, the
Partnership does hereby grant to Contributing Partner, and Contributing Partner
does hereby accept, the right, but without obligation on the part of
Contributing Partner, to require the Partnership to redeem from time to time
part or all of the Units of Contributing Partner for the Cash Purchase Price
("Redemption Rights").

     (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2(a), the General Partner
may, in its sole and absolute discretion, assume the obligation of the
Partnership with respect to and satisfy Contributing Partner's exercise of a
Redemption Right by paying to Contributing Partner, at the General Partner's
election (which may be exercised in the General Partner's sole discretion),
either the Cash Purchase Price or the Share Purchase Price (or a combination
thereof) with respect to the Units for which Contributing Partner exercised its
Redemption Rights. If the General Partner assumes such obligations with respect
to the exercise by Contributing Partner of a Redemption Right as to certain
Units and makes the required payment within the required period of time, then
the Partnership shall have no obligation to pay any amount to Contributing
Partner with respect to the exercise of a Redemption Right for such Units, and
any Units purchased shall be owned by the General Partner for all purposes.

     (c) If the General Partner shall assume the obligations of the Partnership
with respect to and satisfy a Redemption Right, the Partnership, the
Contributing Partner and the General Partner each shall treat the transaction
between the General Partner and Contributing Partner as a sale of Contributing
Partner's Units (or a portion thereof) to the General Partner for federal income
tax purposes.

     (d) Upon the redemption or purchase of part or all of Contributing
Partner's Units and the payment of the Purchase

5

Price with respect thereto, such Person shall be deemed withdrawn as a Partner
in the Partnership to the extent of the Units redeemed or purchased and shall
have no further rights or obligations under this Agreement with respect to such
redeemed or purchased Units; provided, however, that Contributing Partner's
rights under this Agreement with regard to any other Units will continue in full
force and effect.

     (e) No fractional Shares shall be issued hereunder. In lieu of fractional
Shares, the General Partner shall pay cash based on the Current Per Share Market
Price on the relevant Computation Date.

     3. Exercise of Redemption Rights.

     3.1 Time for Exercise of Redemption Rights. Contributing Partner may
exercise his Redemption Rights in whole or in part and at any time and from time
to time on or after the second anniversary of the date hereof but prior to the
Expiration Date; provided, however, that the Redemption Rights may not be
exercised at any one time by Contributing Partner with respect to less than
1,000 Units (or all the Units then owned by Contributing Partner if Contributing
Partner owns less than 1,000 Units) or in the event that such exercise of
Redemption Rights (or the assignment of Units or delivery of either the Cash
Purchase Price or the Share Purchase Price with respect thereto) violates the
terms of the Partnership Agreement or applicable law. Once given, a Notice shall
be irrevocable subject to the payment of the Purchase Price for the Units
specified therein in accordance with the terms hereof.

     3.2 Method of Exercise. The Redemption Rights shall be exercised by written
notice (the "Notice") to the Partnership in the form of Exhibit A specifying the
number of Units to be redeemed and the name or names (with address) in which any
Shares issuable upon such exercise shall be registered if different than the
Contributing Partner.

     3.3 Closing. The closing of the redemption or purchase and sale pursuant to
an exercise of the Redemption Rights shall occur within 30 days following the
giving of the Notice. Contributing Partner shall execute such documents as the
General Partner may reasonably require in connection with the closing of such
redemption or purchase and sale.

     3.4 Payment of Cash or Issuance of Shares. At the closing of the redemption
or purchase and sale of Units pursuant to an

6

exercise of Redemption Rights, the Partnership shall deliver to Contributing
Partner the Cash Purchase Price by check or, in the event that the General
Partner has assumed the obligations of the Partnership with respect to such
exercise of Redemption Rights, the General Partner shall deliver to the
Partnership, at the election of the General Partner, which may be exercised in
the General Partner's sole discretion, either (a) the Cash Purchase Price in
immediately available funds or (b) certificates representing the Shares and any
other securities constituting the Share Purchase Price, together with cash in
lieu of the issuance of any fraction of a Share as provided in Section 2(e), or
a combination thereof.

     4. Matters Relating to Shares.

     4.1 Registration.

     (a) The General Partner shall (i) prepare, file and use reasonable efforts
to cause to become effective on or before the ninetieth day following the second
anniversary of the date hereof a registration statement, which may be on Form
S-3, under the Securities Act relating to the Shares to be issued upon exercise
of the Redemption Rights assuming full satisfaction of the Redemption Rights by
delivery of Shares and (ii) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and
supplements to such registration statement and the prospectus used in connection
therewith as may be necessary to keep such registration statement effective and
to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act.

     (b) The General Partner shall pay all Registration Expenses incurred prior
to the seventh anniversary of the date hereof with respect to filing and keeping
effective the registration statement through such date, and the Unitholders
shall reimburse the General Partner for Registration Expenses (or a pro rata
portion of the Registration Expenses based on the number of Shares issuable to
such Unitholders upon full exercise of the Redemption Rights of such Unitholders
relative to the total number of Shares issuable pursuant to such registration
statement) which are incurred after the seventh anniversary of the date hereof
in respect of maintaining effective (but not the initial filing and causing to
become effective of) such registration statement; provided, however, that
Contributing Partner shall not be required to reimburse any costs (i) of
preparing any documents filed with the SEC that are incorporated by reference in
the Registration Statement or (ii) that become necessary because the General
Partner is unable to use Form S-3

7

(or any equivalent short form that relies on incorporation by reference) for the
reason that the General Partner has failed to comply on a timely basis with any
requirement of the Acts or Form S-3. The reimbursement of such expenses by the
Unitholders shall be paid upon demand.

     (c) If under the Securities Act or then current SEC policy the
above-described registration of the Shares constituting the Share Purchase Price
(assuming full satisfaction of the Redemption Rights by delivery of Shares) is
not permitted for any reason or the public resale of such Shares may not be
effected by Contributing Partner without the further registration under the
Securities Act of such Shares for resale, the General Partner shall use
reasonable efforts to register such Shares for resale, which may be accomplished
by means of a shelf registration (and the General Partner shall not be required
to register such Shares pursuant to Section 4.1(a)), and Contributing Partner
and the General Partner shall enter into customary agreements with respect
thereto which contain provisions similar to those contained in Section 4.1(a)
and (b) (except that (i) such registration statement only shall be maintained
until the Shares registered thereunder have been sold or are eligible for resale
under Rule 144(k) promulgated under the Securities Act (without regard to the
period that Units were held prior to the exchange of such Units for Shares
pursuant to the Redemption Rights) and (ii) after the seventh anniversary of the
date hereof, Contributing Partner shall pay the Registration Expenses therefor
or a pro rata portion thereof based on the number of Shares of Contributing
Partner which remain available for sale pursuant to such registration statement
relative to the total number of Shares that remain available for sale pursuant
to such registration statement) and other customary provisions, including
without limitation customary indemnification provisions.

     (d) If a registration statement referred to in Section 4.1(a) or (c) is not
effective on the later of the ninetieth day following the second anniversary of
the date hereof and the closing pursuant to any exercise of Redemption Rights
where Shares are otherwise issuable (unless, in either case, Contributing
Partner has defaulted hereunder), the General Partner shall not have the right
to deliver the Share Purchase Price in respect of such exercise of Redemption
Rights, and the General Partner or the Partnership shall deliver the Cash
Purchase Price on the date specified in Section 3.3 (but the General Partner
shall not otherwise have any liability therefor); provided, however, that the
General Partner may

8

deliver Shares if it previously filed a registration statement under Section
4.1(c) and such registration statement has not yet been declared effective
solely by reason of the fact that the Shares are not yet outstanding. In the
event that Shares are delivered to Contributing Partner pursuant to an exercise
of Redemption Rights and the proviso contained in the immediately preceding
sentence and the registration statement referred to in such sentence shall not
have been declared effective on or before the tenth business day following
delivery of such Shares, the General Partner shall, upon written notice from
Contributing Partner to the General Partner, repurchase such Shares, and
Contributing Partner shall sell such Shares to the General Partner, for a
purchase price equal to the Cash Purchase Price relating to such exercise of
Redemption Rights. Each of Contributing Partner and the General Partner shall
execute such documents as may be reasonably requested by the other to effectuate
such repurchase and sale.

     (e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the General
Partner shall have no obligation to keep any registration statement filed
pursuant to this Section 4.1 effective after the Expiration Date or if the
status of the General Partner (or its successor) as an Exchange Act Reporting
Company is terminated or all of the Unitholders notify the General Partner in
writing that the General Partner no longer need keep such registration statement
effective.

     4.2 Reservation of Shares. At all times while the Redemption Rights are
outstanding, the General Partner shall reserve for issuance such number of
Shares as may be necessary to enable the General Partner to issue Shares in full
satisfaction of all Redemption Rights which are from time to time outstanding
(assuming no limitations as to the ownership of such Shares under the
Certificate of Incorporation which relate to compliance with the REIT
Requirements and that the General Partner elected to pay the Share Purchase
Price with respect to all such Redemption Rights).

     4.3 Fully Paid and Non-Assessable. All Shares which may be issued upon
exercise of the Redemption Rights shall be duly and validly issued and fully
paid and non-assessable.

     5. Transfer and Other Taxes. In the event that any state or local property
transfer or other tax is payable as the result of or in connection with any
exercise of the Redemption Rights by Contributing Partner, Contributor Partner
shall pay such tax, and no Shares shall be issued pursuant hereto until such

9

Contributor Partner has paid to the General Partner or the Partnership, as the
case may be, the amount of such tax or has provided evidence, in form reasonably
satisfactory to the General Partner or the Partnership, as the case may be, as
to the payment thereof.

     6. Anti-Dilution and Adjustment Provisions.

     (a) The Conversion Factor shall be adjusted in the event that the General
Partner (i) declares or pays a dividend on its outstanding Shares in Shares or
makes a distribution to all holders of its outstanding Shares in Shares, (ii)
subdivides its outstanding Shares, or (iii) combines its outstanding Shares into
a smaller number of Shares. The Conversion Factor shall be adjusted by
multiplying the Conversion Factor by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be
the number of Shares issued and outstanding on the record date for such
dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination (assuming for such purposes
that such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination has occurred as of
such time) and the denominator of which shall be the actual number of Shares
(determined without the above assumption) issued and outstanding on the record
date for such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination. Any adjustment
to the Conversion Factor shall become effective immediately after the effective
date of such event retroactive to the record date, if any, for such event.

     (b) If at any time the General Partner grants to its stockholders any right
to subscribe pro rata for additional securities of the General Partner, whether
Common Stock or other classifications, or for any other securities or interests
that Contributing Partner would have been entitled to subscribe for if,
immediately prior to such grant, Contributing Partner had exercised his
Redemption Rights and received the Share Purchase Price in payment thereof, in
lieu of any adjustment under any other subsection of this Section 6 or other
provision of this Agreement, then the General Partner also shall grant to
Contributing Partner the same subscription rights that Contributing Partner
would be entitled to if Contributing Partner had exercised his Redemption Rights
in full and received the Share Purchase Price in satisfaction thereof prior to
such grant.

     (c) Upon the occurrence of a Major Transaction Event where at least
one-half of the value (as determined in good faith by the General Partner) of
the consideration received by the stockholders of the General Partner in
connection with such

10

Major Transaction Event is in the form of securities in a successor entity, the
General Partner shall cause effective provision to be made so that, upon
exercise of the Redemption Rights and payment of the Purchase Price at any time
following such Major Transaction Event by means of the Share Purchase Price,
Unitholders shall have the right to acquire, in lieu of the Shares which
otherwise would have been issued to Contributing Partner, the kind and amount of
shares of stock and other securities and property (and the provisions contained
in Section 4.1 shall apply anew to the extent that such securities are of a
class of securities of the General Partner or its successor that are registered
under the Exchange Act) and interests as would be issued or payable with respect
to or in exchange for the number of Shares constituting the Share Purchase Price
as if such Redemption Rights had been exercised and the General Partner had
satisfied the Redemption Rights by delivery of the Share Purchase Price
immediately before such Major Transaction Event.

     (d) In the event of any other Major Transaction Event, each Unitholder
shall be entitled to exercise the Redemption Rights in full prior to the
consummation of such Major Transaction Event, and, with respect to any Shares
acquired upon exercise thereof, shall be entitled to all of the rights of the
other holders of Shares with respect to any distribution by the General Partner
(or the other party to such Major Transaction Event) in connection with such
Major Transaction Event. If not exercised within forty-five days after written
notice from the General Partner of such Major Transaction Event or such shorter
period between the date of such notice and the effective date of such Major
Transaction Event, the Redemption Rights shall terminate at the expiration of
such period, but the Redemption Rights shall be revived if such Major
Transaction Event is not consummated.

     (e) The Partnership shall give written notice of any Major Transaction
Event promptly after such Major Transaction is announced to the public.

     (f) The provisions of this Section 6 shall apply to successive events that
may occur from time to time but only shall apply to a particular event if it
occurs prior to the exercise in full of the Redemption Rights or the liquidation
of the Partnership. Nothing contained herein shall prevent or otherwise limit
the liquidation of the Partnership pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, as
amended from time to time.

11

(g) Whenever the Conversion Factor is adjusted as herein provided, the
General Partner shall compute the adjusted Conversion Factor in accordance with
this Section 6 and shall prepare a certificate signed by the chief financial
officer of the General Partner setting forth the adjusted Conversion Factor and
showing in reasonable detail the facts upon which such adjustment is based, and
such certificate shall forthwith be filed at the offices of the General Partner
and mailed to the holders of the Redemption Rights within thirty days of any
such adjustment.

     7. Miscellaneous Provisions.

     7.1 NoticesNotices. All notices or other communications given pursuant to
this Agreement, including without limitation any Notice, shall be sent to the
party to whom or to which such notice is being sent, by certified or registered
mail, return receipt requested, commercial overnight delivery service, facsimile
or delivered by hand with receipt acknowledged in writing and otherwise as set
forth in this Section 8.1. All notices (a) shall be deemed given when received
or, if mailed as described above, after 5 Business Days or, if sent by
facsimile, upon receipt of confirmed answerback and (b) may be given either by a
party or by such party's attorneys. For purposes of this Section 8.1, the
addresses of the parties shall be, in the case of the Partnership and the
General Partner, 55 West Monroe Street, Suite 3100, Chicago, Illinois 60603,
facsimile number (312) 551-5475, Attention: Matthew Bucksbaum and Bernard
Freibaum (with a copy to Neal, Gerber & Eisenberg, Two North LaSalle Street,
Suite 2200, Chicago, Illinois 60602, Attn: Marshall E. Eisenberg), and, in the
case of Contributing Partner, as set forth on the records of the Partnership.
The address of any party may be changed by a notice in writing given in
accordance with the provisions hereof.

     7.2 Assignment. The rights of Contributing Partner hereunder (including the
Redemption Rights) shall automatically devolve upon any Person to the extent
that such Person holds Units, and becomes a substituted partner with respect to
such Units, in accordance with the Partnership Agreement, as amended from time
to time, and delivers to the Partnership a written instrument, in form
reasonably satisfactory to the Partnership, pursuant to which such Person agrees
to be bound by the terms hereof (but the rights of Contributing Partner
hereunder are not otherwise assignable). Subject to the provisions of Section 6,
the General Partner may assign this Agreement without the consent of
Contributing Partner, provided that no such

12

assignment shall relieve the General Partner of its obligations under this
Agreement.

     7.3 Binding Effect. Except as otherwise set forth herein, this Agreement
shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties and their
successors and permitted assigns.

     7.4 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Delaware (without regard to its conflicts of law principles).

     7.5 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one document.

     7.6 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among
the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior
written or oral understandings and/or agreements among them with respect
thereto.

     7.7 Pronouns; Headings; Etc. As used herein, all pronouns shall include the
masculine, feminine and neuter, and all terms shall include the singular and
plural thereof wherever the context and facts require such construction. The
headings herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are to be
ignored in any construction of the provisions hereof. Any references in this
Agreement to a "Section" or "Exhibit" shall refer to a Section or Exhibit of
this Agreement unless otherwise specified.

     7.8 Survival. The representations, warranties and covenants contained
herein or made pursuant hereto shall survive the execution and delivery of this
Agreement and the issuance of Shares pursuant hereto.

     7.9 Further Assurances. Each of the parties shall hereafter execute and
deliver such other instruments and documents and do such further acts and things
as may be required or useful to carry out the purposes of this Agreement.

     7.10 No Right of Set-off. Each of the Partnership and the General Partner
shall perform all of its obligations under this Agreement without asserting any
right of setoff, counterclaim or similar justification for non-performance of
its obligations under this Agreement on account of any claim that the

13

Partnership or the General Partner may have against Contributing Partner that
does not arise under this Agreement.

14

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the date
first above written.

CONTRIBUTING PARTNER:

/s/ Peter D. Leibowits
- ------------------------------------
Peter D. Leibowits

PARTNERSHIP:

GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
a Delaware limited partnership

By: General Growth Properties, Inc.
    a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
    --------------------------------
Its Vice President
    --------------------------------

GENERAL PARTNER:

General Growth Properties, Inc.
a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
    --------------------------------
Its Vice President
    --------------------------------

EXHIBIT A

                              Notice of Redemption

     The undersigned hereby irrevocably (i) exercises its Redemption Rights as
to ___________ units of limited partnership interest (the "Units") in GGP
Limited Partnership (the "Partnership") in accordance with the terms of that
certain Redemption Rights Agreement, dated _______________, 1997 (the
"Agreement"), among the Partnership, General Growth Properties, Inc. (the
"General Partner"), and the other parties thereto, (ii) transfers and surrenders
such Units and all right, title and interest of the undersigned therein to the
party, which shall be either the Partnership or the General Partner, that shall
purchase or redeem such Units pursuant to the Agreement, and (iii) directs that
the Cash Purchase Price or Share Purchase Price payable upon exercise of the
Redemption Right be delivered to the address specified below and, if the Share
Purchase Price is to be delivered, the Shares shall be registered or placed in
the name(s) and at the address(es) specified below.

     The undersigned hereby represents, warrants, certifies and agrees (i) that
the undersigned has unencumbered title to the Units, free and clear of all
Liens, (ii) that the undersigned has the full right, power and authority to
transfer and surrender the Units as provided herein and such transfer and
surrender has been authorized by all necessary action, and (iii) that the
undersigned has obtained the consent or approval of all persons or entities, if
any, having the right to consent to or approve such transfer and surrender.

Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings set
forth in the Agreement.

Dated:
       -------------------

                                        Name:
                                              ----------------------------------

----------------------------------------
                                        (Signature of Limited Partner)

                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        (Street Address)

                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        City  (State (Zip Code)

                                        Signature Guaranteed by

----------------------------------------

If Shares are to be issued, issue to: __________________________________________

Please insert social security or identifying number: ___________________________

</EX-4.7>

<EX-4.8>
 10
 c02442exv4w8.txt
 REDEMPTION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

Exhibit 4.8

                           REDEMPTION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

     Redemption Rights Agreement, dated April 2, 1998, among GGP Limited
Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the "Partnership"), General Growth
Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "General Partner"), and Southwest
Properties Venture, a Colorado general partnership ("Contributing Partner").

                                    RECITALS

     WHEREAS, concurrently herewith, Contributing Partner is being admitted as a
limited partner of the Partnership, the general partner of which is the General
Partner;

     WHEREAS, shares of common stock, $.10 par value per share, of the General
Partner (the "Common Stock") are listed on the New York Stock Exchange; and

     WHEREAS, the parties desire to set forth herein the terms and conditions
upon which the Contributing Partner may cause the Partnership to redeem its
limited partnership units in the Partnership.

     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:

     1. Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall
have the meanings set forth below:

     "Acts" shall mean the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, collectively.

     "Affiliates" shall mean "affiliates" as defined pursuant to the Securities
Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder.

     "Business Day" shall mean any day upon which commercial banks are open for
business in Chicago, Illinois.

     "Cash Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to any redeemed or purchased
Units, an amount of cash equal to the value of the Share Purchase Price
(computed as of the Computation Date and equal to the Current Per Share Market
Price on such Computation Date multiplied by the number of Shares) that would be
payable with respect to such Units assuming the Share Purchase Price were paid
in full satisfaction of the Purchase Price of such Units. In the event that the
Share Purchase Price includes securities other than Shares, then the value of
such other securities shall be determined by the

General Partner acting in good faith on the basis of the closing prices of
securities if listed on a nationally recognized exchange and otherwise on the
basis of such quotations and other information as the General Partner considers,
in its reasonable judgment, appropriate.

     "Certificate of Incorporation" shall mean the Certificate of Incorporation
of the General Partner, as the same may be amended from time to time.

     "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any
successor code.

     "Common Stock" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.

     "Computation Date" shall mean the date on which the applicable Notice is
received by the Partnership or, if such date is not a Business Day, the first
Business Day thereafter.

     "Conversion Factor" shall mean 100%, provided that such factor shall be
adjusted in accordance with Section 6(a).

     "Contribution Agreement" shall mean that certain Sale and Contribution
Agreement dated January ___, 1998, among the Partnership, the General Partner
and Contributing Partner, as the same has been and may hereafter be amended from
time to time, pursuant to which this Agreement is being executed.

     "Current Per Share Market Price" shall have the meaning set forth in the
Partnership Agreement.

     "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
or any successor statute.

     "Exchange Act Reporting Company" shall mean any corporation or other entity
which is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.

     "Expiration Date" shall mean the earlier of (a) April 16, 2023 and (b) the
date upon which all Units have been redeemed or purchased in accordance with the
terms hereof.

     "Liens" shall have the meaning set forth in the Contribution Agreement.

2

"Major Transaction Event" shall mean, with respect to the General Partner,
(a) a reclassification, capital reorganization or other similar change regarding
or affecting outstanding Shares (other than a change addressed in Section 6(a));
(b) a merger or consolidation of the General Partner with one or more other
corporations or entities, other than a merger pursuant to which the General
Partner is the surviving corporation and the outstanding Shares are not
affected, (c) a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the
General Partner's assets or (d) the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the General Partner.

     "Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2.

     "Partnership Agreement" shall mean that certain Amended and Restated
Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership, dated July 27, 1993, as
amended by that certain First Amendment thereto dated May 23, 1995, that certain
Second Amendment thereto dated June 13, 1995, that certain Third Amendment
thereto dated May 21, 1996, that certain Fourth Amendment thereto dated August
30, 1996, that certain Fifth Amendment thereto dated as of October 4, 1996, that
certain Sixth Amendment thereto dated as of November 27, 1996, that certain
Seventh Amendment thereto dated December 6, 1996, that certain Eighth Amendment
thereto dated June 19, 1997, that certain Ninth Amendment thereto dated as of
August 8, 1997, that certain Tenth Amendment thereto dated as of September 8,
1997, that certain Eleventh Amendment thereto dated as of September 11, 1997,
that certain Twelfth Amendment thereto dated October 15, 1997, that certain
Thirteenth Amendment thereto dated October 24, 1997 and that certain Fourteenth
Amendment thereto dated October 29, 1997 and as the same may be further amended.

     "Person" shall mean any natural person, corporation, partnership,
association, limited liability company, trust or other entity.

     "Purchase Price" shall mean the Cash Purchase Price or the Share Purchase
Price, or a combination thereof.

     "Redemption Rights" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.

     "REIT" shall mean real estate investment trust as such term is defined
under the Code.

3

"REIT Requirements" shall have the meaning set forth in the Partnership
Agreement, as the same may change from time to time.

     "Registration Expenses" shall mean all expenses incident to the General
Partner's performance of or compliance with the registration requirements set
forth in this Agreement, including without limitation (a) the fees,
disbursements and expenses of the General Partner's counsel and accountants in
connection with the registration of Shares issuable upon the exercise of the
Redemption Rights; (b) all expenses in connection with the preparation and
printing of the registration statement or statements, any preliminary prospectus
or final prospectus, any other offering document and amendments and supplements
thereto; (c) the cost of printing or producing any blue sky or legal investment
memoranda or other documents in connection with the offering, sale or delivery
of such Shares; (d) all expenses in connection with the qualification of such
Shares under state securities laws; (e) the fees and expenses incurred in
connection with the listing of such Shares on each securities exchange on which
securities of the same class are then listed and (f) all SEC, stock exchange and
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. registration and filing fees.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Registration Expenses shall not include (and the
General Partner will pay) any costs incurred by the Partnership or the General
Partner in preparing any document that is incorporated by reference in a
registration statement, or any professional fee or other expenses, that would
have been incurred apart from the obligation of the General Partner hereunder to
file a Registration Statement.

     "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.

     "Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any
successor statute.

     "Share Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to the exercise of any
Redemption Rights and subject to the provisions of Section 6(c), a number of
Shares equal to the product of (a) the number of Units being redeemed or
purchased multiplied by (b) the Conversion Factor; provided, however, that, in
the event the General Partner, after the date of this Agreement, issues to all
holders of Shares rights, options, warrants or convertible or exchangeable
securities entitling the stockholders to subscribe for or purchase Shares (other
than rights referred to in Section 6(b)) or any other securities or property,
then the Share Purchase Price also shall include such rights, options,

4

warrants or convertible or exchangeable securities that a holder of that number
of Shares would have been entitled to receive.

     "Shares" shall mean shares of the Common Stock.

     "Units" shall mean the limited partnership units in the Partnership issued
to Contributing Partner pursuant to the Contribution Agreement.

     "Unitholder" shall mean the Person who at the time in question holds one or
more Units in accordance with the Partnership Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time.

     2. Grant of Redemption Rights.

     (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions contained herein, the
Partnership does hereby grant to Contributing Partner, and Contributing Partner
does hereby accept, the right, but without obligation on the part of
Contributing Partner, to require the Partnership to redeem from time to time
part or all of the Units of Contributing Partner for the Cash Purchase Price
("Redemption Rights").

     (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2(a), the General Partner
may, in its sole and absolute discretion, assume the obligation of the
Partnership with respect to and satisfy Contributing Partner's exercise of a
Redemption Right by paying to Contributing Partner, at the General Partner's
election (which may be exercised in the General Partner's sole discretion),
either the Cash Purchase Price or the Share Purchase Price (or a combination
thereof) with respect to the Units for which Contributing Partner exercised its
Redemption Rights. If the General Partner assumes such obligations with respect
to the exercise by Contributing Partner of a Redemption Right as to certain
Units and makes the required payment, then the Partnership shall have no
obligation to pay any amount to Contributing Partner with respect to the
exercise of a Redemption Right for such Units, and any Units purchased shall be
owned by the General Partner for all purposes.

     (c) If the General Partner shall assume the obligations of the Partnership
with respect to and satisfy a Redemption Right, the Partnership, the
Contributing Partner and the General Partner each shall treat the transaction
between the General Partner and Contributing Partner as a sale of Contributing

5

Partner's Units (or a portion thereof) to the General Partner for federal income
tax purposes.

     (d) Upon the redemption or purchase of part or all of Contributing
Partner's Units and the payment of the Purchase Price with respect thereto, such
Person shall be deemed withdrawn as a Partner in the Partnership to the extent
of the Units redeemed or purchased and shall have no further rights or
obligations under this Agreement with respect to such redeemed or purchased
Units; provided, however, that Contributing Partner's rights under this
Agreement with regard to any other Units will continue in full force and effect.

     (e) No fractional Shares shall be issued hereunder. In lieu of fractional
Shares, the General Partner shall pay cash based on the Current Per Share Market
Price on the relevant Computation Date.

     3. Exercise of Redemption Rights.

     3.1 Time for Exercise of Redemption Rights. Contributing Partner may
exercise its Redemption Rights in whole or in part and at any time and from time
to time on or after the first anniversary of the date hereof but prior to the
Expiration Date; provided, however, that the Redemption Rights may not be
exercised at any one time by Contributing Partner with respect to less than
1,000 Units (or all the Units then owned by Contributing Partner if Contributing
Partner owns less than 1,000 Units) or in the event that such exercise of
Redemption Rights (or the assignment of Units or delivery of either the Cash
Purchase Price or the Share Purchase Price with respect thereto) violates the
terms of the Partnership Agreement or applicable law. Once given, a Notice shall
be irrevocable subject to the payment of the Purchase Price for the Units
specified therein in accordance with the terms hereof.

     3.2 Method of Exercise. The Redemption Rights shall be exercised by written
notice (the "Notice") to the Partnership in the form of Exhibit A specifying the
number of Units to be redeemed and the name or names (with address) in which any
Shares issuable upon such exercise shall be registered if different than the
Contributing Partner.

     3.3 Closing. The closing of the redemption or purchase and sale pursuant to
an exercise of the Redemption Rights shall occur within 30 days following the
giving of the Notice. Contributing Partner shall execute such documents as the
General

6

Partner may reasonably require in connection with the closing of such redemption
or purchase and sale.

     3.4 Payment of Cash or Issuance of Shares. At the closing of the redemption
or purchase and sale of Units pursuant to an exercise of Redemption Rights, the
Partnership shall deliver to Contributing Partner the Cash Purchase Price by
check or, in the event that the General Partner has assumed the obligations of
the Partnership with respect to such exercise of Redemption Rights, the General
Partner shall deliver to the Partnership, at the election of the General
Partner, which may be exercised in the General Partner's sole discretion, either
(a) the Cash Purchase Price by check or (b) certificates representing the Shares
and any other securities constituting the Share Purchase Price, together with
cash in lieu of the issuance of any fraction of a Share as provided in Section
2(e), or a combination thereof.

     4. Matters Relating to Shares.

     4.1 Registration.

     (a) The General Partner shall (i) prepare, file and use reasonable efforts
to cause to become effective on or before the ninetieth day following the first
anniversary of the date hereof a registration statement, which may be on Form S-
3, under the Securities Act relating to the Shares to be issued upon exercise of
the Redemption Rights assuming full satisfaction of the Redemption Rights by
delivery of Shares and (ii) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and
supplements to such registration statement and the prospectus used in connection
therewith as may be necessary to keep such registration statement effective and
to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act.

     (b) The General Partner shall pay all Registration Expenses incurred prior
to the sixth anniversary of the date hereof with respect to filing and keeping
effective the registration statement through such date, and the Unitholders
shall reimburse the General Partner for Registration Expenses (or a pro rata
portion of the Registration Expenses based on the number of Shares issuable to
such Unitholders upon full exercise of the Redemption Rights of such Unitholders
relative to the total number of Shares issuable pursuant to such registration
statement) which are incurred after the sixth anniversary of the date hereof in
respect of maintaining effective (but not the initial filing and causing to
become effective of) such

7

registration statement; provided, however, that Contributing Partner shall not
be required to reimburse any costs (i) of preparing any documents filed with the
SEC that are incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement or (ii)
that become necessary because the General Partner is unable to use Form S-3 (or
any equivalent short form that relies on incorporation by reference) for the
reason that the General Partner has failed to comply on a timely basis with any
requirement of the Acts or Form S-3. The reimbursement of such expenses by the
Unitholders shall be paid upon demand.

     (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the General
Partner shall have no obligation to keep any registration statement filed
pursuant to this Section 4.1 effective after the Expiration Date or if the
status of the General Partner (or its successor) as an Exchange Act Reporting
Company is terminated or all of the Unitholders notify the General Partner in
writing that the General Partner no longer need keep such registration statement
effective.

     4.2 Reservation of Shares. At all times while the Redemption Rights are
outstanding, the General Partner shall reserve for issuance such number of
Shares as may be necessary to enable the General Partner to issue Shares in full
satisfaction of all Redemption Rights which are from time to time outstanding
(assuming no limitations as to the ownership of such Shares under the
Certificate of Incorporation which relate to compliance with the REIT
Requirements and that the General Partner elected to pay the Share Purchase
Price with respect to all such Redemption Rights).

     4.3 Fully Paid and Non-Assessable. All Shares which may be issued upon
exercise of the Redemption Rights shall be duly and validly issued and fully
paid and non-assessable.

     5. Transfer and Other Taxes. In the event that any state or local property
transfer or other tax is payable as the result of or in connection with any
exercise of the Redemption Rights by Contributing Partner, Contributor Partner
shall pay such tax, and no Shares shall be issued pursuant hereto until such
Contributor Partner has paid to the General Partner or the Partnership, as the
case may be, the amount of such tax or has provided evidence, in form reasonably
satisfactory to the General Partner or the Partnership, as the case may be, as
to the payment thereof.

8

6. Anti-Dilution and Adjustment Provisions.

     (a) The Conversion Factor shall be adjusted in the event that the General
Partner (i) declares or pays a dividend on its outstanding Shares in Shares or
makes a distribution to all holders of its outstanding Shares in Shares, (ii)
subdivides its outstanding Shares, or (iii) combines its outstanding Shares into
a smaller number of Shares. The Conversion Factor shall be adjusted by
multiplying the Conversion Factor by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be
the number of Shares issued and outstanding on the record date for such
dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination (assuming for such purposes
that such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination has occurred as of
such time) and the denominator of which shall be the actual number of Shares
(determined without the above assumption) issued and outstanding on the record
date for such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination. Any adjustment
to the Conversion Factor shall become effective immediately after the effective
date of such event retroactive to the record date, if any, for such event.

     (b) If at any time the General Partner grants to its stockholders any right
to subscribe pro rata for additional securities of the General Partner, whether
Common Stock or other classifications, or for any other securities or interests
that Contributing Partner would have been entitled to subscribe for if,
immediately prior to such grant, Contributing Partner had exercised its
Redemption Rights and received the Share Purchase Price in payment thereof, in
lieu of any adjustment under any other subsection of this Section 6 or other
provision of this Agreement, then the General Partner also shall grant to
Contributing Partner the same subscription rights that Contributing Partner
would be entitled to if Contributing Partner had exercised its Redemption Rights
in full and received the Share Purchase Price in satisfaction thereof prior to
such grant.

     (c) Upon the occurrence of a Major Transaction Event where at least one-
half of the value (as determined in good faith by the General Partner) of the
consideration received by the stockholders of the General Partner in connection
with such Major Transaction Event is in the form of securities in a successor
entity, the General Partner shall cause effective provision to be made so that,
upon exercise of the Redemption Rights and payment of the Purchase Price at any
time following such Major Transaction Event by means of the Share Purchase
Price, Unitholders shall have the right to acquire, in lieu of

9

the Shares which otherwise would have been issued to Contributing Partner, the
kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities and property (and the
provisions contained in Section 4.1 shall apply anew to the extent that such
securities are of a class of securities of the General Partner or its successor
that are registered under the Exchange Act) and interests as would be issued or
payable with respect to or in exchange for the number of Shares constituting the
Share Purchase Price as if such Redemption Rights had been exercised and the
General Partner had satisfied the Redemption Rights by delivery of the Share
Purchase Price immediately before such Major Transaction Event.

     (d) In the event of any other Major Transaction Event, each Unitholder
shall be entitled to exercise the Redemption Rights in full prior to the
consummation of such Major Transaction Event, and, with respect to any Shares
acquired upon exercise thereof, shall be entitled to all of the rights of the
other holders of Shares with respect to any distribution by the General Partner
(or the other party to such Major Transaction Event) in connection with such
Major Transaction Event. If not exercised within forty-five days after written
notice from the General Partner of such Major Transaction Event or such shorter
period between the date of such notice and the effective date of such Major
Transaction Event, the Redemption Rights shall terminate at the expiration of
such period, but the Redemption Rights shall be revived if such Major
Transaction Event is not consummated.

     (e) The Partnership shall give written notice of any Major Transaction
Event promptly after such Major Transaction is announced to the public.

     (f) The provisions of this Section 6 shall apply to successive events that
may occur from time to time but only shall apply to a particular event if it
occurs prior to the exercise in full of the Redemption Rights or the liquidation
of the Partnership. Nothing contained herein shall prevent or otherwise limit
the liquidation of the Partnership pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, as
amended from time to time.

     (g) Whenever the Conversion Factor is adjusted as herein provided, the
General Partner shall compute the adjusted Conversion Factor in accordance with
this Section 6 and shall prepare a certificate signed by the chief financial
officer of the General Partner setting forth the adjusted Conversion Factor and
showing in reasonable detail the facts upon which such

10

adjustment is based, and such certificate shall forthwith be filed at the
offices of the General Partner.

     7. Miscellaneous Provisions.

     7.1 Notices. All notices or other communications given pursuant to this
Agreement, including without limitation any Notice, shall be sent to the party
to whom or to which such notice is being sent, by certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, commercial overnight delivery service, facsimile or
delivered by hand with receipt acknowledged in writing and otherwise as set
forth in this Section 8.1. All notices (a) shall be deemed given when received
or, if mailed as described above, after 5 Business Days or, if sent by
facsimile, upon receipt of confirmed answerback and (b) may be given either by a
party or by such party's attorneys. For purposes of this Section 8.1, the
addresses of the parties shall be, in the case of the Partnership and the
General Partner, 55 West Monroe Street, Suite 3100, Chicago, Illinois 60603,
facsimile number (312) 551-5475, Attention: Matthew Bucksbaum and Bernard
Freibaum (with a copy to Neal, Gerber & Eisenberg, Two North LaSalle Street,
Suite 2200, Chicago, Illinois 60602, Attn: Marshall E. Eisenberg), and, in the
case of Contributing Partner, as set forth on the records of the Partnership.
The address of any party may be changed by a notice in writing given in
accordance with the provisions hereof.

     7.2 Assignment. The rights of Contributing Partner hereunder (including the
Redemption Rights) shall automatically devolve upon any Person to the extent
that such Person holds Units, and becomes a substituted partner with respect to
such Units, in accordance with the Partnership Agreement, as amended from time
to time, and delivers to the Partnership a written instrument, in form
reasonably satisfactory to the Partnership, pursuant to which such Person agrees
to be bound by the terms hereof (but the rights of Contributing Partner
hereunder are not otherwise assignable). Subject to the provisions of Section 6,
the General Partner may assign this Agreement without the consent of
Contributing Partner, provided that no such assignment shall relieve the General
Partner of its obligations under this Agreement.

     7.3 Binding Effect. Except as otherwise set forth herein, this Agreement
shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties and their
successors and permitted assigns.

11

7.4 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Delaware (without regard to its conflicts of law principles).

     7.5 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one document.

     7.6 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among
the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior
written or oral understandings and/or agreements among them with respect
thereto.

     7.7 Pronouns; Headings; Etc. As used herein, all pronouns shall include the
masculine, feminine and neuter, and all terms shall include the singular and
plural thereof wherever the context and facts require such construction. The
headings herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are to be
ignored in any construction of the provisions hereof. Any references in this
Agreement to a "Section" or "Exhibit" shall refer to a Section or Exhibit of
this Agreement unless otherwise specified.

     7.8 Survival. The representations, warranties and covenants contained
herein or made pursuant hereto shall survive the execution and delivery of this
Agreement and the issuance of Shares pursuant hereto.

     7.9 Further Assurances. Each of the parties shall hereafter execute and
deliver such other instruments and documents and do such further acts and things
as may be required or useful to carry out the purposes of this Agreement.

12

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the date
first above written.

CONTRIBUTING PARTNER:

SOUTHWEST PROPERTIES VENTURE,
a Colorado joint venture

By: P&P SOUTHWEST PARTNERSHIP, a
    Colorado general partnership,
    which is a joint venturer of
    Southwest Properties Venture

By: /s/ Jordon Perlmutter
    ---------------------------------
    Jordon Perlmutter
    Managing General Partner

By: /s/ Samuel Primack
    ---------------------------------
    Samuel Primack
    Managing General Partner

By: WADSWORTH PARTNERSHIP, a Colorado
    limited partnership, which is a
    joint venturer of Southwest
    Properties Venture

By: The Wadsworth Holding Partnership,
    a Colorado general partnership,
    which is the sole general partner
    of The Wadsworth Partnership

By: Cooper Investments, a Colorado
    general partnership, which is a
    general partner of The Wadsworth
    Holding Partnership

By: /s/ Michael Cooper
    ---------------------------------
    Michael Cooper
    General Partner

13

PARTNERSHIP:

GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
a Delaware limited partnership

By: General Growth Properties, Inc.
    a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
    ---------------------------------
Its Senior Vice President

GENERAL PARTNER:

General Growth Properties, Inc.
a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
    ---------------------------------
Its: Senior Vice President

14

EXHIBIT A

                              Notice of Redemption

     The undersigned hereby irrevocably (i) exercises its Redemption Rights as
to ___________ units of limited partnership interest (the "Units") in GGP
Limited Partnership (the "Partnership") in accordance with the terms of that
certain Redemption Rights Agreement, dated _______________, 1998 (the
"Agreement"), among the Partnership, General Growth Properties, Inc. (the
"General Partner"), and the other parties thereto, (ii) transfers and surrenders
such Units and all right, title and interest of the undersigned therein to the
party, which shall be either the Partnership or the General Partner, that shall
purchase or redeem such Units pursuant to the Agreement, and (iii) directs that
the Cash Purchase Price or Share Purchase Price payable upon exercise of the
Redemption Right be delivered to the address specified below and, if the Share
Purchase Price is to be delivered, the Shares shall be registered or placed in
the name(s) and at the address(es) specified below.

     The undersigned hereby represents, warrants, certifies and agrees (i) that
the undersigned has unencumbered title to the Units, free and clear of all
Liens, (ii) that the undersigned has the full right, power and authority to
transfer and surrender the Units as provided herein and such transfer and
surrender has been authorized by all necessary action, and (iii) that the
undersigned has obtained the consent or approval of all persons or entities, if
any, having the right to consent to or approve such transfer and surrender.

Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings set
forth in the Agreement.

Dated:
       ------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                              ---------------------------------

----------------------------------------
                                        (Signature of Limited Partner)

                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        (Street Address)

                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        City (State) (Zip Code)

                                        Signature Guaranteed by

----------------------------------------

If Shares are to be issued, issue to: __________________________________________

Please insert social security or identifying number: ___________________________

</EX-4.8>

<EX-4.9>
 11
 c02442exv4w9.txt
 REDEMPTION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 4.9

                           REDEMPTION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

          Redemption Rights Agreement, dated as of July 21, 1998 (this
"Agreement"), among GGP Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the
"Partnership"), General Growth Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
"General Partner"), Nashland Associates, a Tennessee general partnership
("Nashland") and HRE Altamonte, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("HRE", and each of
HRE and Nashland a "Contributing Partner").

                                    RECITALS

          WHEREAS, concurrently herewith, each Contributing Partner is being
admitted as a limited partner of the Partnership, the general partner of which
is the General Partner;

          WHEREAS, shares of common stock, $.10 par value per share, of the
General Partner (the "Common Stock") are listed on the New York Stock Exchange;
and

          WHEREAS, the parties desire to set forth herein the terms and
conditions upon which each Contributing Partner may cause the Partnership to
redeem its limited partnership units in the Partnership.

          NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:

          1. Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms
shall have the meanings set forth below:

          "Acts" shall mean the Securities Act and the Exchange Act,
collectively.

          "Affiliates" shall mean "affiliates" as defined pursuant to the
Securities Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder.

          "Business Day" shall mean any day upon which commercial banks are open
for business in Chicago, Illinois.

1

"Cash Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to any redeemed or
purchased Units, an amount of cash equal to the value of the Share Purchase
Price (computed as of the Computation Date and equal to the Current Per Share
Market Price on such Computation Date multiplied by the number of Shares) that
would be payable with respect to such Units assuming the Share Purchase Price
were paid in full satisfaction of the Purchase Price of such Units. In the event
that the Share Purchase Price includes securities other than Shares, then the
value of such other securities shall be determined by the General Partner acting
in good faith on the basis of the closing prices of securities if listed on a
nationally recognized exchange and otherwise on the basis of such quotations and
other information as the General Partner considers, in its reasonable judgment,
appropriate.

          "Certificate of Incorporation" shall mean the Certificate of
Incorporation of the General Partner, as the same may be amended from time to
time.

          "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or
any successor code.

          "Common Stock" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.

          "Computation Date" shall mean the date on which the applicable Notice
is received by the Partnership or, if such date is not a Business Day, the first
Business Day thereafter.

          "Contribution Agreement" shall mean that certain Contribution and
Exchange Agreement dated as of July 10, 1998, among the Partnership, Altamonte
Springs Mall, L.P., Nashland and HRE as the same has been and may hereafter be
amended from time to time, pursuant to which this Agreement is being executed.

          "Conversion Factor" shall mean 100%, provided that such factor shall
be adjusted in accordance with Section 6(a).

          "Current Per Share Market Price" shall have the meaning set forth in
the Partnership Agreement.

2

"Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, or any successor statute.

          "Exchange Act Reporting Company" shall mean any corporation or other
entity which is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.

          "Expiration Date" shall mean the earlier of (a) December 31, 2045 and
(b) the date upon which all Units have been redeemed or purchased in accordance
with the terms hereof.

          "Holders" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of Exhibit
B.

          "Liens" shall have the meaning set forth in the Contribution
Agreement.

          "Major Transaction Event" shall mean, with respect to the General
Partner, (a) a reclassification, capital reorganization or other similar change
regarding or affecting outstanding Shares (other than a change addressed in
Section 6(a)); (b) a merger or consolidation of the General Partner with one or
more other corporations or entities, other than a merger pursuant to which the
General Partner is the surviving corporation and the outstanding Shares are not
affected, (c) a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the
General Partner's assets or (d) the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the General Partner.

          "Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2.

          "Partnership Agreement" shall mean that certain Second Amended and
Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership, dated April 1,
1998 and as the same has been and may be further amended.

          "Person" shall mean any natural person, corporation, partnership,
association, limited liability company, trust or other entity.

          "Purchase Price" shall mean the Cash Purchase Price or the Share
Purchase Price, or a combination thereof.

3

"Redemption Rights" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.

          "Registrable Securities" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
1.01 of Exhibit B.

          "Registration Expenses" shall mean all expenses incident to the
General Partner's performance of or compliance with the registration
requirements set forth in this Agreement (including in Exhibit B), including
without limitation (a) the fees, disbursements and expenses of the General
Partner's counsel and accountants in connection with the registration of Shares
and other Registrable Securities; (b) all expenses in connection with the
preparation and printing of the registration statement or statements, any
preliminary or final prospectus, any other offering documents and amendments and
supplements thereto; (c) the cost of printing or producing any blue sky or legal
investment memoranda or other documents in connection with the offering, sale or
delivery of the Shares and other Registrable Securities; (d) all expenses in
connection with the qualification of the Shares and other Registrable Securities
under state securities laws; (e) the fees and expenses incurred in connection
with the listing of the Shares and other Registrable Securities on each
securities exchange on which securities of the same class are then listed and
(f) all SEC, stock exchange and National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
registration and filing fees. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Registration
Expenses shall not include (and the General Partner will pay) any costs incurred
by the Partnership or the General Partner in preparing any document that is
incorporated by reference in a registration statement, or any professional fee
or other expenses, that would have been incurred apart from the obligation of
the General Partner hereunder to file a registration statement.

          "Registration Rights" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1.

          "REIT" shall mean real estate investment trust as such term is defined
under the Code.

          "REIT Requirements" shall have the meaning set forth in the
Partnership Agreement, as the same may change from time

4

to time.

          "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.

          "Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or
any successor statute.

          "Share Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to the exercise of any
Redemption Rights and subject to the provisions of Section 6(c), a number of
Shares equal to the product of (a) the number of Units being redeemed or
purchased multiplied by (b) the Conversion Factor; provided, however, that, in
the event the General Partner, after the date of this Agreement, issues to all
holders of Shares rights, options, warrants or convertible or exchangeable
securities entitling the stockholders to subscribe for or purchase Shares (other
than rights referred to in Section 6(b)) or any other securities or property,
then the Share Purchase Price also shall include such rights, options, warrants
or convertible or exchangeable securities that a holder of that number of Shares
would have been entitled to receive.

          "Shares" shall mean shares of the Common Stock.

          "Unitholder" shall mean the Person who at the time in question holds
one or more Units in accordance with the Partnership Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time.

          "Units" shall mean the limited partnership units in the Partnership
issued to the Contributing Partners pursuant to the Contribution Agreement.

          2. Grant of Redemption Rights.

          (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions contained herein, the
Partnership does hereby grant to each Contributing Partner, and each
Contributing Partner does hereby accept, the right, but without obligation on
the part of such Contributing Partner, to require the Partnership to redeem from
time to time part or all of the Units of such Contributing Partner for the Cash
Purchase Price ("Redemption Rights").

5

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2(a), the General
Partner may, in its sole and absolute discretion, assume the obligation of the
Partnership with respect to and satisfy each Contributing Partner's exercise of
a Redemption Right by paying to such Contributing Partner, at the General
Partner's election (which may be exercised in the General Partner's sole
discretion), either the Cash Purchase Price or the Share Purchase Price (or a
combination thereof) with respect to the Units for which such Contributing
Partner exercised its Redemption Rights. If the General Partner assumes such
obligations of the Partnership with respect to the exercise by a Contributing
Partner of a Redemption Right as to certain Units and makes the required
payment, then the Partnership shall have no obligation to pay any amount to such
Contributing Partner with respect to the exercise of a Redemption Right for such
Units, and any Units purchased shall be owned by the General Partner for all
purposes.

          (c) If the General Partner shall assume the obligations of the
Partnership with respect to and satisfy a Redemption Right, the Partnership, the
Contributing Partner and the General Partner each shall treat the transaction
between the General Partner and the Contributing Partner as a sale of the
Contributing Partner's Units (or a portion thereof) to the General Partner for
federal income tax purposes.

          (d) Upon the redemption or purchase of part or all of a Contributing
Partner's Units and the payment of the Purchase Price with respect thereto, such
Person shall he deemed withdrawn as a Partner in the Partnership to the extent
of the Units redeemed or purchased and shall have no further rights or
obligations under this Agreement with respect to such redeemed or purchased
Units; provided, however, that such Contributing Partner's rights under this
Agreement with regard to any other Units will continue in full force and effect.

          (e) No fractional Shares shall be issued hereunder. In lieu of
fractional Shares, the General Partner shall pay cash based on the Current Per
Share Market Price on the relevant Computation Date.

6

3. Exercise of Redemption Rights.

          3.1 Time for Exercise of Redemption Rights. Each Contributing Partner
may exercise its Redemption Rights in whole or in part and at any time and from
time to time on or after the first anniversary of the date hereof but prior to
the Expiration Date; provided, however, that the Redemption Rights may not be
exercised at any one time by any Contributing Partner with respect to less than
1,000 Units (or all the Units then owned by a Contributing Partner if such
Contributing Partner owns less than 1,000 Units) or in the event that such
exercise of Redemption Rights (or the assignment of Units or delivery of either
the Cash Purchase Price or the Share Purchase Price with respect thereto)
violates the terms of the Partnership Agreement or applicable law. Once given, a
Notice shall be irrevocable subject to the payment of the Purchase Price for the
Units specified therein in accordance with the terms hereof.

          3.2 Method of Exercise. The Redemption Rights shall be exercised by
written notice (the "Notice") to the Partnership in the form of Exhibit A
specifying the number of Units to be redeemed and the name or names (with
address) in which any Shares issuable upon such exercise shall be registered if
different than the Contributing Partner.

          3.3 Closing. The closing of the redemption or purchase and sale
pursuant to an exercise of the Redemption Rights shall occur within 30 days
following the giving of the Notice. Each Contributing Partner shall execute such
documents as the General Partner may reasonably require in connection with the
closing of such redemption or purchase and sale.

          3.4 Payment of Cash or Issuance of Shares. At the closing of the
redemption or purchase and sale of Units pursuant to an exercise of Redemption
Rights, the Partnership shall deliver to the redeeming Contributing Partner the
Cash Purchase Price by check or, in the event that the General Partner has
assumed the obligations of the Partnership with respect to such exercise of
Redemption Rights, the General Partner shall deliver to the Partnership, at the
election of the General Partner, which may be exercised in the General Partner's
sole discretion, either (a) the Cash Purchase Price by check or

7

(b) certificates representing the Shares and any other securities constituting
the Share Purchase Price, together with cash in lieu of the issuance of any
fraction of a Share as provided in Section 2(e), or a combination thereof.

          4. Matters Relating to Shares.

          4.1 Registration. (a) The General Partner shall (i) prepare, file and
use its reasonable efforts to cause to become effective on or before the
ninetieth day following the first anniversary of the date hereof a registration
statement, which may be on Form S-3, under the Securities Act relating to the
issuance to each Unitholder of the Shares to be issued upon exercise of such
Unitholder's Redemption Rights assuming full satisfaction of such Redemption
Rights by delivery of Shares and (ii) prepare and file with the SEC such
amendments and supplements to such registration statement and the prospectus
used in connection therewith as may be necessary to keep such registration
statement effective and to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act;
provided that if a Unitholder first exercises its Redemption Rights with respect
to any of its Units prior to the date such registration statement becomes
effective under the Securities Act and the General Partner elects pursuant to
Section 2(b) to satisfy such Unitholder's exercise of its Redemption Rights by
paying the Share Purchase Price, the General Partner shall not be obligated to
register pursuant to this Section 4.1(a) the issuance to such Unitholder of any
Shares.

          (b) The General Partner shall pay all Registration Expenses incurred
prior to the sixth anniversary of the date hereof with respect to filing and
keeping effective any registration statement required by Section 4.1(a) through
such date, and the Unitholders shall reimburse the General Partner for
Registration Expenses (or a pro rata portion of the Registration Expenses based
on the number of Shares issuable to such Unitholders pursuant to such
registration statement upon full exercise of the Redemption Rights of such
Unitholders relative to the total number of Shares issuable pursuant to such
registration statement) which are incurred after the sixth anniversary of the
date hereof in respect of maintaining effective (but not the initial filing and
causing to become effective of) such registration statement; provided, however,
that Unitholders shall not be

8

required to reimburse any costs (i) of preparing any documents filed with the
SEC that are incorporated by reference in such registration statement or (ii)
that become necessary because the General Partner is unable to use Form S-3 (or
any equivalent short form that relies on incorporation by reference) for the
reason that the General Partner has failed to comply on a timely basis with any
requirement of the Acts or Form S-3. The reimbursement of such expenses by the
Unitholders shall be paid upon demand.

          (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the
General Partner shall have no obligation to keep any registration statement
filed pursuant to this Section 4.1(a) effective after the Expiration Date or if
the status of the General Partner (or its successor) as an Exchange Act
Reporting Company is terminated or all of the Unitholders notify the General
Partner in writing that the General Partner no longer need keep such
registration statement effective.

          (d) The Holders (as defined in Exhibit B) shall have the registration
rights (the "Registration Rights") set forth on Exhibit B.

          4.2 Reservation of Shares. At all times while the Redemption Rights
are outstanding, the General Partner shall reserve for issuance such number of
Shares as may be necessary to enable the General Partner to issue Shares in full
satisfaction of all Redemption Rights which are from time to time outstanding
(assuming no limitations as to the ownership of such Shares under the
Certificate of Incorporation which relate to compliance with the REIT
Requirements and that the General Partner elected to pay the Share Purchase
Price with respect to all such Redemption Rights).

          4.3 Fully Paid and Non-Assessable. All Shares which may be issued upon
exercise of the Redemption Rights shall be duly and validly issued and fully
paid and non-assessable.

          5. Transfer and Other Taxes. In the event that any state or local
property transfer or other similar tax is payable as the result of or in
connection with any exercise of the Redemption Rights by a Contributing Partner,
such

9

Contributing Partner shall pay such tax, and no Shares shall be issued pursuant
hereto until such Contributor Partner has paid to the General Partner or the
Partnership, as the case may be, the amount of such tax or has provided
evidence, in form reasonably satisfactory to the General Partner or the
Partnership, as the case may be, as to the payment thereof.

          6. Anti-Dilution and Adjustment Provisions.

          (a) The Conversion Factor shall be adjusted in the event that the
General Partner (i) declares or pays a dividend on its outstanding Shares in
Shares or makes a distribution to all holders of its outstanding Shares in
Shares, (ii) subdivides its outstanding Shares, or (iii) combines its
outstanding Shares into a smaller number of Shares. The Conversion Factor shall
be adjusted by multiplying the Conversion Factor by a fraction, the numerator of
which shall be the number of Shares issued and outstanding on the record date
for such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination (assuming for such
purposes that such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination has
occurred as of such time) and the denominator of which shall be the actual
number of Shares (determined without the above assumption) issued and
outstanding on the record date for such dividend, distribution, subdivision or
combination. Any adjustment to the Conversion Factor shall become effective
immediately after the effective date of such event retroactive to the record
date, if any, for such event.

          (b) If at any time the General Partner grants to its stockholders any
right to subscribe pro rata for additional securities of the General Partner,
whether Common Stock or other classifications, or for any other securities or
interests that a Contributing Partner would have been entitled to subscribe for
if, immediately prior to such grant, such Contributing Partner had exercised its
Redemption Rights and received the Share Purchase Price in payment thereof, in
lieu of any adjustment under any other subsection of this Section 6 or other
provision of this Agreement, then the General Partner also shall grant to each
Contributing Partner the same subscription rights that such Contributing Partner
would be entitled to if such Contributing Partner had exercised its Redemption
Rights in full and received the Share Purchase Price in satisfaction

10

thereof prior to such grant.

          (c) Upon the occurrence of a Major Transaction Event where at least
one-half of the value (as determined in good faith by the General Partner) of
the consideration received by the stockholders of the General Partner in
connection with such Major Transaction Event is in the form of securities in a
successor entity, the General Partner shall cause effective provision to be made
so that, upon exercise of the Redemption Rights and payment of the Purchase
Price at any time following such Major Transaction Event by means of the Share
Purchase Price, Unitholders shall have the right to acquire, in lieu of the
Shares which otherwise would have been issued to each Contributing Partner, the
kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities and property (and the
provisions contained in Section 4.1 shall apply anew to the extent that such
securities are of a class of securities of the General Partner or its successor
that are registered under the Exchange Act) and interests as would be issued or
payable with respect to or in exchange for the number of Shares constituting the
Share Purchase Price as if such Redemption Rights had been exercised and the
General Partner had satisfied the Redemption Rights by delivery of the Share
Purchase Price immediately before such Major Transaction Event.

          (d) In the event of any other Major Transaction Event, tender offer
for at least 40% of the then outstanding Shares, or merger or consolidation of
the General Partner which requires the approval of the General Partner's
shareholders (which is not a Major Transaction Event), each Unitholder shall be
entitled to exercise the Redemption Rights in full prior to the consummation of
such Major Transaction Event or other event, and, with respect to any Shares
acquired upon exercise thereof, shall be entitled to all of the rights of the
other holders of Shares with respect to any distribution by the General Partner
(or the other party to such Major Transaction Event or other event) in
connection with such Major Transaction Event or other event. If not exercised
within forty-five days after written notice from the General Partner of such
Major Transaction Event or such shorter period between the date of such notice
and the effective date of such Major Transaction Event, the Redemption Rights
shall terminate at the expiration of such period, but the Redemption Rights
shall

11

be revived if such Major Transaction Event is not consummated.

          (e) The Partnership shall give written notice of any Major Transaction
Event to each Contributing Partner promptly after such Major Transaction Event
is announced to the public.

          (f) The provisions of this Section 6 shall apply to successive events
that may occur from time to time but only shall apply to a particular event if
it occurs prior to the exercise in full of the Redemption Rights or the
liquidation of the Partnership. Nothing contained herein shall prevent or
otherwise limit the liquidation of the Partnership pursuant to the Partnership
Agreement.

          (g) Whenever the Conversion Factor is adjusted as herein provided, the
General Partner shall compute the adjusted Conversion Factor in accordance with
this Section 6 and shall prepare a certificate signed by the chief financial
officer of the General Partner setting forth the adjusted Conversion Factor and
showing in reasonable detail the facts upon which such adjustment is based, and
such certificate shall forthwith be filed at the offices of the General Partner.

          (h) Notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, the Unitholders
will be entitled to adjustments to protect against dilution and the deferral of
receipt of benefits, and to receive rights, preferences and privileges in
connection with a Major Transaction Event, that are not less favorable than the
adjustments, rights, preferences and privileges received by any other holder of
the same class of limited partnership units in the Partnership.

12

7. Miscellaneous Provisions.

          7.1 Notices. All notices or other communications given pursuant to
this Agreement, including without limitation any Notice, shall be sent to the
party to whom or to which such notice is being sent, by certified or registered
mail, return receipt requested, commercial overnight delivery service, facsimile
or delivered by hand with receipt acknowledged in writing and otherwise as set
forth in this Section 7.1. All notices (a) shall be deemed given when received
or, if mailed as described above, after 5 Business Days or, if sent by
facsimile, upon receipt of confirmed answer back and (b) may be given either by
a party or by such party's attorneys. For purposes of this Section 7.1, the
addresses of the parties shall be, in the case of the Partnership and the
General Partner, 110 North Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, facsimile
number (312) 960-5475, Attention: Matthew Bucksbaum and Bernard Freibaum (with a
copy to Neal, Gerber & Eisenberg, Two North LaSalle Street, Suite 2200, Chicago,
Illinois 60602, Attn: Marshall E. Eisenberg), and, in the case of the
Contributing Partners, as set forth on the records of the Partnership. The
address of any party may be changed by a notice in writing given in accordance
with the provisions hereof.

          7.2 Assignment. The rights of each Contributing Partner hereunder
(including the Redemption Rights and the Registration Rights) shall
automatically devolve upon and inure to the benefit of any Person (i) to which
Units are transferred in accordance with the Partnership Agreement, as amended
from time to time, and the Contribution Agreement, and (ii) which delivers to
the Partnership a written instrument, in form reasonably satisfactory to the
Partnership, pursuant to which such Person agrees to be bound by the terms
hereof. In addition, a transferee of Registrable Securities who acquires such
Registrable Securities from a Holder in a transaction other than pursuant to an
effective registration statement under the Securities Act may become a Holder
for purposes of Exhibit B and have Registration Rights with respect to such
Registrable Securities by (i) taking and holding the record ownership of such
Registrable Securities, (ii) notifying the General Partner in writing of such
transfer and (iii) providing the General Partner with all information concerning
such transferee that is necessary to amend or

13

supplement the applicable registration statement and/or prospectus of the
General Partner, whereupon such transferee shall be conclusively deemed to have
agreed to be bound by and entitled to the benefit of all the terms and
provisions of this Agreement relating to Registration Rights. Subject to the
provisions of Section 6, the General Partner may assign this Agreement without
the consent of the Contributing Partners, provided that no such assignment shall
relieve the General Partner of its obligations under this Agreement.

          7.3 Amendments and Waivers. (a) Subject to Section 7.3(b), the
provisions of this Agreement (including the provisions of this sentence) may not
be amended, modified, supplemented or waived, nor may consent to departures
therefrom be given, without the written consent of the General Partner and a
majority-in-interest of the Unitholders; provided, however, that no amendment,
modification, supplement or waiver of, or consent to the departure from, such
provisions of this Agreement, which has the purpose or effect of reducing,
impairing or adversely affecting the right of any Unitholder, shall be effective
as against any such Person unless consented to in writing by such Person. Notice
of any such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent adopted in
accordance with this Section 7.3(a) shall be provided by the General Partner to
each Unitholder at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of such
amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent.

          (b) Exhibit B of this Agreement, together with Section 4.1(d), Section
7.1, the last two sentences of Section 7.2, this Section 7.3(b) and Sections
7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 7.7, 7.8, 7.9, 7.10 and 7.11, may not be amended, modified,
supplemented or waived, nor may consent to departures therefrom be given,
without the written consent of the General Partner and a majority-in-interest of
the Holders (as defined in Exhibit B) (aggregating holders of Units and Shares
into a single class for the purpose of such computation); provided, however,
that no amendment, modification, supplement or waiver of, or consent to the
departure from, Exhibit B or such other provisions of this Agreement, which has
the purpose or effect of reducing, impairing or adversely affecting the right of
any Holder, shall be effective as against any such Holder unless

14

consented to in writing by such Holder. Notice of any such amendment,
modification, supplement, waiver or consent adopted in accordance with this
Section 7.3(b) shall be provided by the General Partner to each Holder at least
thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of such amendment, modification,
supplement, waiver or consent.

          7.4 Specific Performance. The parties hereto agree that the
obligations imposed on them in this Agreement are special, unique and of an
extraordinary character, and that in the event of breach by any party damages
would not be an adequate remedy, and each of the other parties shall be entitled
to specific performance and injunctive and other equitable relief in addition to
any other remedy to which it may be entitled, at law or in equity; and the
parties hereto further agree to waive any requirement for the securing or
posting of any bond in connection with the obtaining of any such injunctive or
other equitable relief.

          7.5 Binding Effect. Except as otherwise set forth herein, this
Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties and
their successors and permitted assigns.

          7.6 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Delaware (without regard to its conflicts of law principles).

          7.7 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one document.

          7.8 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement
among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any
prior written or oral understandings and/or agreements among them with respect
thereto.

          7.9 Pronouns; Headings; Etc. As used herein, all pronouns shall
include the masculine, feminine and neuter, and all terms shall include the
singular and plural thereof wherever the context and facts require such
construction. The headings herein are inserted for convenience of reference only
and are to be ignored in any construction of the provisions hereof. Any
references in this Agreement to

15

a "Section" or "Exhibit" shall refer to a Section or Exhibit of this Agreement
unless otherwise specified.

          7.10 Survival. The representations, warranties and covenants contained
herein or made pursuant hereto shall survive the execution and delivery of this
Agreement and the issuance of Shares pursuant hereto.

          7.11 Further Assurances. Each of the parties shall hereafter execute
and deliver such other instruments and documents and do such further acts and
things as may be required or useful to carry out the purposes of this Agreement.

16

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the
date first above written.

CONTRIBUTING PARTNERS:

NASHLAND ASSOCIATES,
a Tennessee general partnership

By: O'Connor Realty Investors II,
    L.P., its managing partner,

By: J.W. O'Connor & Co.
    Incorporated, its managing
    general partner,

By: /s/ Glenn J. Rufrano
    ---------------------------------
Name:  Glenn J. Rufrano
      -------------------------------
Title: President
       ------------------------------

HRE ALTAMONTE, INC., a Delaware
corporation,

By: /s/ Dale R. Gilomen
    ---------------------------------
Name: Dale R. Gilomen
      -------------------------------
Title: Vice President
       ------------------------------

PARTNERSHIP:

GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
a Delaware limited partnership

By: General Growth Properties, Inc.
    a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
    ---------------------------------
Its Senior Vice President
    ---------------------------------

GENERAL PARTNER:

General Growth Properties, Inc.
a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
    ---------------------------------
Its Senior Vice President
    ---------------------------------

17

EXHIBIT A

                              Notice of Redemption

          The undersigned hereby irrevocably (i) exercises its Redemption Rights
as to ______________ units of limited partnership interest (the "Units") in GGP
Limited Partnership (the "Partnership") in accordance with the terms of that
certain Redemption Rights Agreement, dated July 21, 1998 (the "Agreement"),
among the Partnership, General Growth Properties, Inc. (the "General Partner"),
and the other parties thereto, (ii) transfers and surrenders such Units and all
right, title and interest of the undersigned therein to the party, which shall
be either the Partnership or the General Partner, that shall purchase or redeem
such Units pursuant to the Agreement, and (iii) directs that the Cash Purchase
Price or Share Purchase Price payable upon exercise of the Redemption Right be
delivered to the address specified below and, if the Share Purchase Price is to
be delivered, the Shares shall be registered or placed in the name(s) and at the
address(es) specified below.

          The undersigned hereby represents, warrants, certifies and agrees (i)
that the undersigned has unencumbered title to the Units, free and clear of all
Liens, (ii) that the undersigned has the full right, power and authority to
transfer and surrender the Units as provided herein and such transfer and
surrender has been authorized by all necessary action, and (iii) that the
undersigned has obtained the consent or approval of all persons or entities, if
any, having the right to consent to or approve such transfer and surrender.

          Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings
set forth in the Agreement.

Dated:
       ---------------------

                                        Name:
                                              ----------------------------------

----------------------------------------
                                        (Signature of Limited Partner)

                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        (Street Address)

A-1

----------------------------------------
                                        (City) (State) (Zip Code)

----------------------------------------
                                        Signature Guaranteed by

If Shares are to be issued, issue to: __________________________________________

Please insert social security or identifying number: ___________________________

A-2

EXHIBIT B

                               Registration Rights

          Capitalized terms used in this Exhibit B and not otherwise defined
herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement.
References to an "Article" or a "Section" in this Exhibit B shall refer to an
Article or Section of this Exhibit B unless otherwise specified.

                                    ARTICLE I

                          Shelf Registration Statement;
                             Underwritten Offerings

          SECTION 1.01. Shelf Registration Statement. (a) Not later than 10
business days after any Holder (as hereinafter defined) delivers written notice
to the General Partner requesting registration of Registrable Securities (as
hereinafter defined), the General Partner shall amend an existing registration
statement or file a new registration statement (the "Registration Statement")
under the Securities Act with the SEC covering resales of such Registrable
Securities and shall use its best efforts to cause the Registration Statement to
become effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable after filing;
provided that in no event shall the General Partner be obligated to use its best
efforts to cause the Registration Statement to become effective as of a date
prior to the 120th day following the first anniversary of the date hereof. The
Registration Statement (i) shall be available for the sale of Registrable
Securities in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by
the Selling Holders (as hereinafter defined) and (ii) shall comply as to form in
all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include
all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith.
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 1.01 to the contrary, the General
Partner shall not be obligated to register for resale Registrable Securities the
resale of which is already registered pursuant to a registration statement then
currently effective under the Securities Act. The term "Holder" shall mean each
Contributing Partner and any other person who hereafter joins in and is made a
party

B-1

to this Agreement pursuant to Section 7.2 of this Agreement that then holds
Units or Registrable Securities. The term "Selling Holder" shall mean a holder
of Registrable Securities (or Units redeemable for Registrable Securities) the
public sale of which have been registered under the Securities Act pursuant to
the Registration Statement. The General Partner agrees that it shall deliver to
the Selling Holders for their review and comments copies of the Registration
Statement and any amendments and supplements thereto (other than post-effective
amendments) prior to the filing thereof with the SEC.

               (b) Once the Registration Statement becomes effective, the
General Partner shall keep the Registration Statement continuously effective and
available for resale of the Registrable Securities until the earliest to occur
of (i) the Expiration Date, (ii) the status of the General Partner (or its
successor) as an Exchange Act Reporting Company is terminated, (iii) all of the
Holders notify the General Partner in writing that the General Partner no longer
need keep the Registration Statement effective, (iv) the sale of all of the
Registrable Securities by the Holders, or (v) the date on which in the opinion
of counsel for the General Partner all of the Registrable Securities become
eligible for sale pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (such opinion
to be in writing and addressed to the Holders and such counsel to be reasonably
acceptable to the Holders). The Holders hereby agree that Neal, Gerber &
Eisenberg is acceptable counsel for the General Partner.

               (c) The term "Registrable Securities" shall mean (i) any Shares
that have been or may be issued from time to time upon the exchange of the Units
(including any additional units of limited partnership interest of the
Partnership or any successor entity received in exchange for, or as a dividend
or distribution on account of the Units) pursuant to the Partnership Agreement
or this Agreement and other securities issued by the General Partner in exchange
for the Shares and (ii) any securities issued by the Partnership or the General
Partner as a dividend or distribution on account of Registrable Securities or
resulting from a subdivision of outstanding Registrable Securities into a
greater number of securities (by reclassification, stock split or otherwise);
provided that

B-2

any securities issued pursuant to a registration statement effective under the
Securities Act at the time of their issuance shall not be Registrable
Securities.

          SECTION 1.02. Underwritten Offering. (a) If any of the Registrable
Securities covered by the Registration Statement are to be sold in an
underwritten public offering, the Holder intending to pursue such underwritten
offering shall deliver a notice to the General Partner of such intent, and
within ten days after receipt of the notice of intent from such Holder for an
underwritten offering, the General Partner shall give written notice (the
"Offering Notice") of such notice of intent to all other Holders and such other
Holders shall be entitled to include in such an underwritten offering all or
part of their respective Registrable Securities by notice to the General Partner
for inclusion therein within 15 days after the Offering Notice is given. All
notices made pursuant to this Section 1.02(a) shall specify the aggregate number
of Registrable Securities to be included. The General Partner agrees to
cooperate with any such request for an underwritten offering and to take all
such other reasonable actions in connection therewith as provided in Section
2.01(l). If the board of directors of the General Partner shall determine in its
good faith judgment that a underwritten public offering proposed by a Holder
pursuant to this Section 1.02 would have a material adverse effect on the
General Partner and its stockholders, then the General Partner may elect to
delay or suspend such underwritten public offering for a period of not more than
45 days; provided that the General Partner shall not delay or suspend
underwritten public offerings pursuant to this Section 1.02 for an aggregate
period of more than 90 days during any 12 month period.

               (b) In the case of any firm commitment underwritten offering, if
the managing underwriter or underwriters of such offering advise the General
Partner in writing that in its or their opinion the number of Registrable
Securities proposed to be sold in such offering exceeds the number of
Registrable Securities that can be sold in such offering without adversely
affecting the market for the Shares, the General Partner will include in such
offering the number of Registrable Securities that in the opinion of such
managing underwriter or underwriters can be sold without adversely affecting the
market for the Shares.

B-3

In such event, the number of Registrable Securities to be offered for the
account of each Holder requesting to include Registrable Securities in such
offering (including the Holder providing the initial Notice) shall be reduced
pro rata on the basis of the relative number of Registrable Securities requested
by each such Holder to be included in such offering to the extent necessary to
reduce the total number of Registrable Securities to be included in such
offering to the number recommended by such managing underwriter or underwriters.

               (c) If any of the Registrable Securities covered by the
Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the Selling
Holders selling Registrable Securities pursuant to such offering shall have the
right to select the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or
managers that will underwrite the offering; provided, however, that such
investment bankers and managers must be from a nationally recognized investment
banking firm reasonably acceptable to the General Partner.

                                   ARTICLE II

                             Registration Procedures

          SECTION 2.01. Registration Procedures. During the time period that the
Registration Statement is required to be current, effective and available under
Section 1.01 above, the General Partner shall also at its expense:

               (a) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and supplements
to the Registration Statement and the prospectus constituting a part thereof, as
amended or supplemented (the "Prospectus"), as may be necessary to keep the
Registration Statement effective and to comply with the provisions of the
Securities Act with respect to resales of Registrable Securities in accordance
with the intended method or methods of distribution by the Holders whenever a
Holder shall desire to sell or otherwise dispose of the same, or any portion
thereof, but in no event beyond the period during which the Registration
Statement is required to be kept in effect under Section 1.01 above; provided,
however, that if the General Partner shall furnish to each Holder a certificate
(a "Blackout Certificate") signed by

B-4

the General Partner's chief executive officer stating that in the good faith
judgment of the board of directors of the General Partner it would have a
material adverse effect on the General Partner and its stockholders for the
Registration Statement to be amended or supplemented to include certain material
non-public information regarding the General Partner required to be included
therein, then the General Partner may defer such amending or supplementing for a
period of not more than 45 days and in such event each Selling Holder shall be
required to discontinue disposition of the Registrable Securities during such
period; but provided, further, that the General Partner shall not defer or
suspend the amendment or supplementation of the Registration Statement or
Prospectus pursuant to this Section 2.01(a) or Section 2.01(h) for an aggregate
period of more than 90 days during any 12 month period;

               (b) furnish to each Selling Holder, without charge, such number
of authorized copies of the Prospectus, and any amendments or supplements to the
Prospectus, in conformity with the requirements of the Securities Act and the
Exchange Act, and such other documents as such Selling Holder may reasonably
request in order to facilitate the public sale or other disposition of the
Registrable Securities owned by such Selling Holder, and the General Partner
hereby consents to the use of the Prospectus, such amendments or supplements and
such other documents in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable
Securities;

               (c) register or qualify the Registrable Securities under state
securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as are reasonably required to
effect a sale thereof and do any and all other acts and things which may be
necessary or appropriate under such state securities or blue sky laws to enable
the Selling Holders to consummate the public sale or other disposition in such
jurisdictions of the Registrable Securities to be sold or otherwise disposed of
by such Selling Holders from time to time;

               (d) before filing with the SEC any amendments or supplements to
the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, furnish copies of all such
documents proposed to be filed to the Holders holding Registrable Securities,
which shall have five business days to review and comment thereon; provided,

B-5

however, that all such documents shall be subject to the approval of a Holder
insofar as they relate to information concerning such Holder (including, without
limitation, the proposed method of distribution of the Registrable Securities);

               (e) notify the Selling Holders promptly (and, if requested by a
Selling Holder, confirm in writing) (i) when the Registration Statement has
become effective and when any post-effective amendments and supplements thereto
become effective, (ii) of any request by the SEC or any state securities
authority for amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement and the
Prospectus or for additional information, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or
any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of
the Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that
purpose, (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to
the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities or the
initiation of any proceeding for such purpose, and (v) of the happening of any
event during the period the Registration Statement is effective which results in
the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any document incorporated therein
by reference containing an untrue statement of material fact or omitting to
state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the
statements therein not misleading;

               (f) use its best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order
suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement at the earliest
practicable time;

               (g) cooperate with the Selling Holders to facilitate the timely
preparation and delivery of certificates evidencing the Registrable Securities
being sold, which certificates shall not bear any restrictive legends provided
the Registrable Securities evidenced thereby have been sold in a manner
permitted by the Prospectus;

               (h) upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section
2.01(e)(v), promptly prepare and file a supplement or post-effective amendment
to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or any document incorporated
therein by reference or file any other required document so

B-6

that, as thereafter delivered to purchasers of the Registrable Securities, the
Prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the
statements therein not misleading; provided, however, that if the General
Partner shall furnish to each Selling Holder the Blackout Certificate provided
for in Section 2.01(a), the obligation to prepare and file any such supplement
or post-effective amendment shall be suspended in accordance with Section
2.01(a);

               (i) use its reasonable efforts to cause the Registrable
Securities to be listed on any securities exchange on which securities of the
same class issued by the General Partner are then listed;

               (j) make available for inspection by the Selling Holders and any
counsel, accountants or other representatives retained by such Selling Holders,
such financial and other records and pertinent corporate documents of the
General Partner and cause the officers, directors and employees of the General
Partner to supply such records, documents or information reasonably requested by
such Selling Holders, counsel, accountants or representatives in connection with
the preparation of the registration statement that are reasonably required to
order for such Selling Holders to establish their "due diligence" defense
against liabilities under Section 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act; provided,
however, that such records, documents or information are confidential and shall
not be disclosed by such Selling Holders, counsel, accountants or
representatives unless (i) such disclosure is ordered pursuant to a subpoena or
other order from a court of competent jurisdiction, or (ii) such records,
documents or information become generally available to the public other than
through a breach of the terms set forth in this Exhibit B;

               (k) use its best efforts to make available to its security
holders, as soon as reasonably practicable, an earning statement covering at
least 12 months, commencing on the first day of the fiscal quarter next
succeeding each sale of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Registration
Statement, in a manner which shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of
the Securities Act and

B-7

Rule 158 thereunder; and

               (l) if requested by a Selling Holder or any underwriters engaged
by such Selling Holder for purposes of distributing the Registrable Securities,
enter into such agreements (including an underwriting agreement in form, scope
and substance as is customary in underwritten offerings) and take all such other
reasonable actions in connection therewith (including those reasonably requested
by the underwriters or such Selling Holder) in order to expedite or facilitate
the disposition of such Registrable Securities, and in such connection, (i) make
such representations and warranties to the underwriters with respect to the
business of the General Partner and the registration statement, Prospectus and
documents, if any, incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference
therein, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by
issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings, and confirm the same if and
when requested; (ii) obtain customary opinions of counsel to the General Partner
and updates thereof (which shall be in form and substance reasonably
satisfactory to such Selling Holder or to the underwriters and their counsel, as
the case may be), addressed to such Selling Holder and, if applicable, each of
the underwriters; (iii) obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof from
the independent certified public accountants of the General Partner, addressed
to such Selling Holder and, if applicable, each of the underwriters, such
letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily
covered in "cold comfort" letters in connection with any such offerings (in each
case, to the extent permitted by applicable accounting rules and guidelines);
(iv) if an underwriting agreement is entered into, the same shall contain
indemnification provisions and procedures no less favorable to the underwriters
than those set forth in Article III hereof and cross indemnification by the
underwriters in form and substance as is customary in connection with such
offering, in favor of the General Partner or the Selling Holders, as the case
may be; (v) with respect to any underwritten offering in excess of $40 million,
make the General Partner's executive officers available for a total of five
business days to participate in "road show" presentations (provided that in no
event shall the General Partner be required to make its executive officers
available for more than one "road show" in any year

B-8

with respect to offerings pursuant to this Agreement); and (vi) deliver such
documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the managing
underwriters and their counsel to evidence the continued validity of the
representations and warranties made pursuant to clause (i) above of this Section
2.01(l) and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in
the underwriting agreement entered into by the General Partner).

          SECTION 2.02. Registration Expenses. The General Partner shall pay all
Registration Expenses incurred prior to the sixth anniversary of the date hereof
with respect to the filing and keeping effective any Registration Statement
through such date, and the Selling Holders shall reimburse the General Partner
for Registration Expenses (or a pro rata portion of the Registration Expenses
based on the number of Shares of such Selling Holders registered for resale
pursuant to such Registration Statement relative to the total number of Shares
registered for resale pursuant to such registration statement) which are
incurred after the sixth anniversary of the date hereof in respect of
maintaining effective (but not the initial filing and causing to become
effective of) such Registration Statement; provided, however, that Selling
Holders shall not be required to reimburse any costs (i) of preparing any
documents filed with the SEC that are incorporated by reference in such
Registration Statement or (ii) that become necessary because the General Partner
is unable to use Form S-3 (or any equivalent short form that relies on
incorporation by reference) for the reason that the General Partner has failed
to comply on a timely basis with any requirement of the Acts or Form S-3. The
reimbursement of such expenses by the Selling Holders shall be paid upon demand;
provided, however, that the General Partner shall not be responsible for any
brokerage fees or underwriting commissions, if any, incurred by Holders in
connection with the resale of Registrable Securities, the fees and expenses of
any counsel retained by a Holder in connection with resales of the Registrable
Securities or transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of
Registrable Securities.

          SECTION 2.03. Certain Other Obligations of the General Partner. (a)
The General Partner covenants that, so long as it is subject to the reporting
requirements of

B-9

the Exchange Act, it will file the reports required to be filed by it under the
Exchange Act so as to enable any Holder to sell the Registrable Securities
pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act.

               (b) In connection with any sale, transfer or other disposition by
any Holder of any Registrable Securities pursuant to Rule 144 under the
Securities Act, the General Partner shall cooperate with such Holder to
facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates evidencing the
Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any Securities Act legend, and
enable certificates for such Registrable Securities to be for such number of
shares and registered in such names as the selling Holders may reasonably
request. The General Partner's obligation set forth in the previous sentence
shall be subject to the delivery, if reasonably requested by the General Partner
or its transfer agent, by counsel to such Holder, in form and substance
reasonably satisfactory to the General Partner and its transfer agent, of an
opinion that such Securities Act legend need not appear on such certificate.

                                   ARTICLE III

                                 Indemnification

B-10

SECTION 3.01. Indemnification by the General Partner. (a) The General
Partner hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder and each person
or entity, if any, which controls a Holder (within the meaning of either Section
15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act), and their
respective officers, directors, shareholders, members, partners, agents and
employees (each such person being sometimes hereinafter referred to as an
"Indemnified Holder"), from and against any and all losses, claims, damages,
costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) to which such Holder
or each such person may become subject under the Securities Act or otherwise
that arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue
statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement or the
Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or by reason of any omission
or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated
therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and shall reimburse
each Indemnified Holder for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by
such Indemnified Holder in connection with investigating, preparing or defending
against any such loss, claim or damages as such expenses are incurred; provided,
however, that the indemnity provided pursuant to this Section 3.01 shall not
apply to any Holder with respect to any such losses, claims, damages, costs and
expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) that arise out of or are based
upon any such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or
omission made in reliance upon information furnished in writing to the General
Partner by such Holder expressly for use therein. This indemnity will be in
addition to any liability which the General Partner may otherwise have. In
addition, upon request of a Holder, the General Partner shall enter into one or
more indemnification agreements with any broker or brokers engaged by such
Holder (provided that the General Partner shall not be required to enter into
such agreements with more than five brokers) to sell all or any portion of the
Registrable Securities, each such agreement to indemnify the broker in question
against the same losses, claims, damages, costs and expenses as such Holder is
indemnified against by the General Partner under this Section 3.01.

          SECTION 3.02 Indemnification by the Holders. Each Holder

B-11

selling shares pursuant to the Registration Statement (an "Indemnifying Holder")
severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the General Partner and the
other Selling Holders, and each of their respective directors, officers,
shareholders, employees and agents and each person or entity, if any, who
controls the General Partner or any other Selling Holder (within the meaning of
either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) to
the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the General Partner to such
Indemnifying Holder, but only insofar as such loss, claim, damage, cost or
expense arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue
statement or omission or alleged omission made in the Registration Statement or
any amendment thereto or the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto
in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the
General Partner by such Selling Holder for use therein relating to the Selling
Holder's status as a selling security holder.

          SECTION 3.03. Conduct of Indemnification Proceedings. Each indemnified
party shall give reasonably prompt notice to each indemnifying party of any
action or proceeding commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be
sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party (i) shall not
relieve it from any liability which it may have under the indemnity agreement
provided in Sections 3.01 or 3.02 above, unless and to the extent it did not
otherwise learn of such action and the lack of notice by the indemnified party
materially prejudices the indemnifying party or results in the forfeiture by the
indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) shall not, in any
event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified
party other than the indemnification obligation provided under Sections 3.01 or
3.02 above. After receipt of such notice, the indemnifying party shall be
entitled to participate in and, at its option, jointly with any other
indemnifying party so notified, to assume the defense of such action or
proceeding at such indemnifying party's own expense with counsel chosen by such
indemnifying party and approved by the indemnified party, which approval shall
not be unreasonably withheld; provided, however, that, if the

B-12

defendants in any such action or proceeding include both the indemnified party
and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party reasonably determines, upon
advice of counsel, that a conflict of interest exists or that there may be legal
defenses available to it or other indemnified parties that are different from or
in addition to those available to the indemnifying party, then the indemnified
party shall be entitled to one separate counsel, the reasonable fees and
expenses of which shall be paid by the indemnifying party. If the indemnifying
party does not assume the defense of any such action or proceeding, after having
received the notice referred to in the first sentence of this paragraph, the
indemnifying party will pay the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel (which
shall be limited to a single law firm in addition to any local counsel necessary
in connection with such action or proceeding) for the indemnified party. In such
event, however, the indemnifying party will not be liable for any settlement
effected without the written consent of such indemnifying party. If the
indemnifying party assumes the defense of any such action or proceeding in
accordance with this paragraph, such indemnifying party shall not be liable for
any fees and expenses of counsel for the indemnified party incurred thereafter
in connection with such action or proceeding except as set forth in the proviso
in the second sentence of this Section 3.03.

          SECTION 3.04. Contribution. (a) In order to provide for just and
equitable contribution in circumstances in which the indemnity agreement
provided for in this Article III is for any reason held to be unenforceable
although applicable in accordance with its terms, the General Partner and the
Selling Holders shall contribute to the aggregate losses, liabilities, claims,
damages and expenses of the nature contemplated by such indemnity agreement
incurred by the General Partner and the Selling Holders, in such proportion as
is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the General Partner on the one
hand and the Selling Holders on the other (in such proportions that the Selling
Holders are severally, not jointly, responsible for the balance), in connection
with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages,
liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
The relative fault of the indemnifying party and the indemnified parties shall
be

B-13

determined by reference to, among other things, whether the action in question,
including any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission
or alleged omission to state a material fact, has been made by, or relates to
information supplied by, such indemnifying party or the indemnified parties, and
the parties' relative intent, pledge, access to information and opportunity to
correct or prevent such action.

               (b) The parties hereto agree that it would not be just or
equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 3.04 were determined by pro
rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account
of the equitable considerations referred to in Section 3.04(a). Notwithstanding
the provisions of this Section 3.04, no Selling Holder shall be required to
contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which
the Registrable Securities of such Selling Holder were offered to the public
exceeds the amount of any damages which such Selling Holder would otherwise have
been required to pay by reason of such untrue statement or omission.

               (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Person guilty of fraudulent
misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act)
shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such
fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 3.04, each Person, if
any, who controls a Holder within the meaning of either Section 15 of the
Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act and directors and officers of a
Holder shall have the same rights to contribution as such Holder, and each
director of the General Partner, each officer of the General Partner who signed
the Registration Statement and each Person, if any, who controls the General
Partner within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section
20 of the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the General
Partner.

B-14

</EX-4.9>

<EX-4.10>
 12
 c02442exv4w10.txt
 REDEMPTION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

Exhibit 4.10

Redemption Rights Agreement

Redemption Rights Agreement, dated October 21, 1998, among (i) GGP Limited
Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the "Partnership"), (ii) General
Growth Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "General Partner"), and
(iii) the following (collectively, "Contributing Partners"): (a) MSV Properties,
L.L.C., a Georgia limited liability company, (b) Shreve Capital, Inc., a
Louisiana corporation, (c) CMS/Valley Forge Real Estate Opportunity Fund, L.P.,
a Delaware limited partnership, (d) Harry J. Butler, Jr., (e) Sealy Retail
Properties, L.L.C., a Louisiana limited liability company, (f) Scott P. Sealy,
(g) Mark P. Sealy, (h) Gwen Sealy, (i) Scott P. Sealy, not individually but
solely as Trustee for J. Pollard Sealy Trust for Scott P. Sealy, (j) Scott P.
Sealy, not individually but solely as Trustee for J. Pollard Sealy Trust for
Laura Celeste Sealy Curtis, (k) Scott P. Sealy, not individually but solely as
Trustee for J. Pollard Sealy Trust for Mark P. Sealy, (l) Scott P. Sealy, not
individually but solely as Trustee for J. Pollard Sealy Trust for Lisa Wood
Sealy Hollier and (m) Scott P. Sealy, not individually but solely as Trustee for
J. Pollard Sealy Trust for Sue Sealy Geren.

RECITALS

     WHEREAS, concurrently herewith, Contributing Partners are being admitted as
limited partners of the Partnership, the general partner of which is the General
Partner;

     WHEREAS, shares of common stock, $.10 par value per share, of the General
Partner (the "Common Stock") are listed on the New York Stock Exchange; and

     WHEREAS, the parties desire to set forth herein the terms and conditions
upon which Contributing Partners may cause the Partnership to redeem its limited
partnership units in the Partnership.

     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:

          Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall
have the meanings set forth below:

     "Acts" shall mean the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, collectively.

     "Affiliates" shall mean "affiliates" as defined pursuant to the Securities
Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder.

     "Business Day" shall mean any day upon which commercial banks are open for
business in Chicago, Illinois.

     "Cash Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to any redeemed or purchased
Units, an amount of cash equal to the value of the Share Purchase Price
(computed as of the Computation Date and equal to the Current Per Share Market
Price on such Computation Date multiplied by the number of Shares) that would be
payable with respect to such Units assuming the Share Purchase Price were

paid in full satisfaction of the Purchase Price of such Units. In the event that
the Share Purchase Price includes securities other than Shares, then the value
of such other securities shall be determined by the General Partner acting in
good faith on the basis of the closing prices of securities if listed on a
nationally recognized exchange and otherwise on the basis of such quotations and
other information as the General Partner considers, in its reasonable judgment,
appropriate. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in the
event that Redemption Rights are exercised in respect of any Immediately
Redeemable Units on or before the one hundred eightieth (180th) day after the
date hereof, the Cash Purchase Price for such Units shall be equal to the
product of (a) the number of such Units multiplied by (b) the Share Price
(subject to adjustment in the event of a subdivision, combination or other
similar event in respect of the Units).

     "Certificate of Incorporation" shall mean the Certificate of Incorporation
of the General Partner, as the same may be amended from time to time.

     "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any
successor code.

     "Common Stock" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.

     "Computation Date" shall mean the date on which the applicable Notice is
received by the Partnership or, if such date is not a Business Day, the first
Business Day thereafter.

     "Conversion Factor" shall mean 100%, provided that such factor shall be
adjusted in accordance with Section 6(a).

     "Contribution Agreement" shall mean that certain Contribution Agreement
dated October 21, 1998, among the Partnership and MSV Properties, L.L.C., a
Georgia limited liability company, as the same has been and may hereafter be
amended from time to time, pursuant to which this Agreement is being executed.

     "Current Per Share Market Price" shall have the meaning set forth in the
Partnership Agreement.

     "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
or any successor statute.

     "Exchange Act Reporting Company" shall mean any corporation or other entity
which is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.

     "Expiration Date" shall mean the earlier of (a) August 1, 2038 and (b) the
date upon which all Units have been redeemed or purchased in accordance with the
terms hereof.

     "Holder" shall mean a Person (other than the General Partner) who at the
time in question holds one or more of the Units in accordance with the
Partnership Agreement, as the same may be

amended from time to time.

     "Immediately Redeemable Units" shall mean the Units issued to the parties
as specified and in the quantities indicated on the attached Exhibit B pursuant
to the Contribution Agreement.

     "Liens" shall have the meaning set forth in the Contribution Agreement.

     "Major Transaction Event" shall mean, with respect to the General Partner,
(a) a reclassification, capital reorganization or other similar change regarding
or affecting outstanding Shares (other than a change addressed in Section 6(a));
(b) a merger or consolidation of the General Partner with one or more other
corporations or entities, other than a merger pursuant to which the General
Partner is the surviving corporation and the outstanding Shares are not
affected, (c) a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the
General Partner's assets or (d) the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the General Partner.

     "Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2.

     "Partnership Agreement" shall mean that certain Second Amended and Restated
Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership, dated April 1, 1998, as
amended by that certain First Amendment thereto dated as of June 10, 1998 and
that certain Second Amendment thereto dated as of June 29, 1998, and as the same
may be further amended from time to time.

     "Person" shall mean any natural person, corporation, partnership,
association, limited liability company, trust or other entity.

     "Purchase Price" shall mean the Cash Purchase Price or the Share Purchase
Price, or a combination thereof.

     "Redemption Rights" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.

     "REIT" shall mean real estate investment trust as such term is defined
under the Code.

     "REIT Requirements" shall have the meaning set forth in the Partnership
Agreement, as the same may change from time to time.

     "Registration Expenses" shall mean all expenses incident to the General
Partner's performance of or compliance with the registration requirements set
forth in this Agreement, including without limitation (a) the fees,
disbursements and expenses of the General Partner's counsel and accountants in
connection with the registration of Shares issuable upon the exercise of the
Redemption Rights; (b) all expenses in connection with the preparation and
printing of the registration statement or statements, any preliminary prospectus
or final prospectus, any other offering document and amendments and supplements
thereto; (c) the cost of printing or producing any blue sky or legal investment
memoranda or other documents in connection with the

offering, sale or delivery of such Shares; (d) all expenses in connection with
the qualification of such Shares under state securities laws; (e) the fees and
expenses incurred in connection with the listing of such Shares on each
securities exchange on which securities of the same class are then listed and
(f) all SEC, stock exchange and National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
registration and filing fees. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Registration
Expenses shall not include (and the General Partner will pay) any costs incurred
by the Partnership or the General Partner in preparing any document that is
incorporated by reference in a registration statement, or any professional fee
or other expenses, that would have been incurred apart from the obligation of
the General Partner hereunder to file a Registration Statement.

     "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.

     "Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any
successor statute.

     "Share Price" shall have the meaning set forth in the Contribution
Agreement.

     "Share Purchase Price" shall mean, with respect to the exercise of any
Redemption Rights and subject to the provisions of Section 6(c), a number of
Shares equal to the product of (a) the number of Units being redeemed or
purchased multiplied by (b) the Conversion Factor; provided, however, that, in
the event the General Partner, after the date of this Agreement, issues to all
holders of Shares rights, options, warrants or convertible or exchangeable
securities entitling the stockholders to subscribe for or purchase Shares (other
than rights referred to in Section 6(b)) or any other securities or property,
then the Share Purchase Price also shall include such rights, options, warrants
or convertible or exchangeable securities that a holder of that number of Shares
would have been entitled to receive.

     "Shares" shall mean shares of the Common Stock.

     "Units" shall mean the common units of limited partnership in the
Partnership issued to Contributing Partners pursuant to the Contribution
Agreement.

          Grant of Redemption Rights.

     (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions contained herein, the
Partnership does hereby grant to each Contributing Partner, and such
Contributing Partner does hereby accept, the right, but without obligation on
the part of such Contributing Partner, to require the Partnership to redeem from
time to time part or all of the Units of such Contributing Partner for the Cash
Purchase Price ("Redemption Rights").

     (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2(a), the General Partner
may, in its sole and absolute discretion, assume the obligation of the
Partnership with respect to and satisfy any Contributing Partner's exercise of a
Redemption Right by paying to

such Contributing Partner, at the General Partner's election (which may be
exercised in the General Partner's sole discretion), either the Cash Purchase
Price or the Share Purchase Price (or a combination thereof) with respect to the
Units for which such Contributing Partner exercised its Redemption Rights. If
the General Partner assumes such obligations with respect to the exercise by any
Contributing Partner of a Redemption Right as to certain Units and makes the
required payment, then the Partnership shall have no obligation to pay any
amount to such Contributing Partner with respect to the exercise of a Redemption
Right for such Units, and any Units purchased shall be owned by the General
Partner for all purposes. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein, the General Partner shall not have the right to deliver the Share
Purchase Price in connection with the exercise of Redemption Rights in respect
of any Immediately Redeemable Units.

     (c) If the General Partner shall assume the obligations of the Partnership
with respect to the exercise by a Contributing Partner of a Redemption Right,
the Partnership, such Contributing Partner and the General Partner each shall
treat the transaction between the General Partner and such Contributing Partner
as a sale of such Contributing Partner's Units (or a portion thereof) to the
General Partner for federal income tax purposes.

     (d) Upon the redemption or purchase of part or all of any Contributing
Partner's Units and the payment of the Purchase Price with respect thereto, such
Person shall be deemed withdrawn as a Partner in the Partnership to the extent
of the Units redeemed or purchased and shall have no further rights or
obligations under this Agreement with respect to such redeemed or purchased
Units; provided, however, that such Contributing Partner's rights under this
Agreement with regard to any other Units will continue in full force and effect.

     (e) No fractional Shares shall be issued hereunder. In lieu of fractional
Shares, the General Partner shall pay cash based on the Current Per Share Market
Price on the relevant Computation Date.

          Exercise of Redemption Rights.

          Time for Exercise of Redemption Rights. Each Contributing Partner may
exercise its Redemption Rights in whole or in part and at any time and from time
to time on or after the first anniversary of the date hereof (but each
Contributing Partner holding Immediately Redeemable Units may exercise its
Redemption Rights as to such Units at any time and from time to time on or after
the date hereof) but prior to the Expiration Date; provided, however, that the
Redemption Rights may not be exercised at any one time by a Contributing Partner
with respect to less than 1,000 Units (or all the Units then owned by such
Contributing Partner if such Contributing Partner owns less than 1,000 Units) or
in the event that such exercise of Redemption Rights (or the assignment of Units
or delivery of either the Cash Purchase Price or the Share Purchase Price with
respect thereto) violates the terms of the Partnership Agreement or applicable
law. Once given, a Notice shall be irrevocable subject to the payment of the
Purchase Price

for the Units specified therein in accordance with the terms hereof.

          Method of Exercise. The Redemption Rights shall be exercised by
written notice (the "Notice") to the Partnership in the form of Exhibit A
specifying the number of Units to be redeemed and the name or names (with
address) in which any Shares issuable upon such exercise shall be registered if
different than the exercising Contributing Partner.

          Closing. The closing of the redemption or purchase and sale of Units
pursuant to an exercise of the Redemption Rights shall occur within 30 days
following the giving of the Notice. Each Contributing Partner shall execute such
documents as the General Partner may reasonably require in connection with the
closing of such redemption or purchase and sale.

          Payment of Cash or Issuance of Shares. At the closing of the
redemption or purchase and sale of Units pursuant to an exercise of Redemption
Rights by any Contributing Partner and subject to the last sentence of Section
2(b), the Partnership shall deliver to such Contributing Partner the Cash
Purchase Price by check or, in the event that the General Partner has assumed
the obligations of the Partnership with respect to such exercise of Redemption
Rights, the General Partner shall deliver to such Contributing Partner, at the
election of the General Partner (which may be exercised in the General Partner's
sole discretion), either (a) the Cash Purchase Price by check or (b)
certificates representing the Shares and any other securities constituting the
Share Purchase Price, together with cash in lieu of the issuance of any fraction
of a Share as provided in Section 2(e), or a combination thereof.

          Matters Relating to Shares.

          Registration.

          The General Partner shall (i) prepare, file and use reasonable efforts
to cause to become effective on or before the ninetieth day following the first
anniversary of the date hereof a shelf registration statement, which may be on
Form S-3, under the Securities Act relating to the Shares to be issued upon
exercise of the Redemption Rights (assuming full satisfaction of such Redemption
Rights by delivery of Shares to the extent permitted hereunder) and (ii) prepare
and file with the SEC such amendments and supplements to such registration
statement and the prospectus used in connection therewith as may be necessary to
keep such registration statement effective and to comply with the provisions of
the Securities Act.

          The General Partner shall pay all Registration Expenses incurred prior
to the sixth anniversary of the date hereof with respect to filing and keeping
effective the registration statement through such date, and the Holders of Units
(other than Immediately Redeemable Units) shall reimburse the General Partner
for Registration Expenses (or a pro rata portion of the

Registration Expenses based on the number of Shares issuable to such Holders
upon full exercise of the Redemption Rights by such Holders relative to the
total number of Shares issuable pursuant to such registration statement) which
are incurred after the sixth anniversary of the date hereof in respect of
maintaining effective (but not the initial filing and causing to become
effective of) such registration statement; provided, however, that no Holder
shall be required to reimburse any costs (i) of preparing any documents filed
with the SEC that are incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement or
(ii) that become necessary because the General Partner is unable to use Form S-3
(or any equivalent short form that relies on incorporation by reference) for the
reason that the General Partner has failed to comply on a timely basis with any
requirement of the Acts or Form S-3. The reimbursement of such expenses by the
Holders shall be paid upon demand.

          Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the General
Partner shall have no obligation to keep any registration statement filed
pursuant to this Section 4.1 effective after the Expiration Date or if the
status of the General Partner (or its successor) as an Exchange Act Reporting
Company is terminated or all of the Holders of Units (other than the Immediately
Redeemable Units) notify the General Partner in writing that the General Partner
no longer need keep such registration statement effective.

          Reservation of Shares. At all times while the Redemption Rights are
outstanding, the General Partner shall reserve for issuance such number of
Shares as may be necessary to enable the General Partner to issue Shares to the
extent permitted hereunder in full satisfaction of the Redemption Rights which
are from time to time outstanding (assuming no limitations as to the ownership
of such Shares under the Certificate of Incorporation which relate to compliance
with the REIT Requirements and that the General Partner elected to pay the Share
Purchase Price with respect to all such Redemption Rights to the extent
permitted hereunder).

          Fully Paid and Non-Assessable. All Shares which may be issued upon
exercise of the Redemption Rights shall be duly and validly issued and fully
paid and non-assessable.

          Transfer and Other Taxes. In the event that any state or local
property transfer or other tax is payable as the result of or in connection with
any exercise of the Redemption Rights by any Contributing Partner, such
Contributing Partner shall pay such tax, and no Shares shall be issued or other
consideration paid pursuant hereto until such Contributing Partner has paid to
the General Partner or the Partnership, as the case may be, the amount of such
tax or has provided evidence, in form reasonably satisfactory to the General
Partner or the Partnership, as the case may be, as to the payment thereof.

          Anti-Dilution and Adjustment Provisions.

          The Conversion Factor shall be adjusted in the event that the General
Partner (i) declares or pays a dividend on its

outstanding Shares in Shares or makes a distribution to all holders of its
outstanding Shares in Shares, (ii) subdivides its outstanding Shares, or (iii)
combines its outstanding Shares into a smaller number of Shares (unless a
similar dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination occurs with respect
to the Units). In such event, the Conversion Factor shall be adjusted by
multiplying the Conversion Factor by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be
the number of Shares issued and outstanding on the record date for such
dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination (assuming for such purposes
that such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination has occurred as of
such time) and the denominator of which shall be the actual number of Shares
(determined without the above assumption) issued and outstanding on the record
date for such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination. Any adjustment
to the Conversion Factor shall become effective immediately after the effective
date of such event retroactive to the record date, if any, for such event.

          If at any time the General Partner grants to the holders of its Common
Stock any right to subscribe pro rata for additional securities of the General
Partner, whether Common Stock or other classifications, or for any other
securities or interests that any Contributing Partner (other than a Holder of
Immediately Redeemable Units) would have been entitled to subscribe for if,
immediately prior to such grant, such Contributing Partner had exercised its
Redemption Rights and received the Share Purchase Price in payment thereof, in
lieu of any adjustment under any other subsection of this Section 6 or other
provision of this Agreement, then the General Partner also shall grant to such
Contributing Partner the same subscription rights that such Contributing Partner
would be entitled to if such Contributing Partner had exercised its Redemption
Rights in full and received the Share Purchase Price in satisfaction thereof
prior to such grant.

          Upon the occurrence of a Major Transaction Event where at least
one-half of the value (as determined in good faith by the General Partner) of
the consideration received by the holders of Common Stock in connection with
such Major Transaction Event is in the form of securities in a successor entity,
the General Partner shall cause effective provision to be made so that, upon
exercise of the Redemption Rights by a Contributing Partner (other than a Holder
of Immediately Redeemable Units) and payment of the Purchase Price at any time
following such Major Transaction Event by means of the Share Purchase Price,
such Holder shall have the right to acquire, in lieu of the Shares which
otherwise would have been issued to such Holder, the kind and amount of shares
of stock and other securities and property (and the provisions contained in
Section 4.1 shall apply anew to the extent that such securities are of a class
of securities of the General Partner or its successor that are registered under
the Exchange Act) and interests as would be issued or payable with respect to or
in exchange for the number of Shares constituting the Share Purchase Price as if
such Redemption Rights had been exercised and the General Partner had satisfied
the Redemption Rights by delivery of the Share Purchase Price immediately before
such Major Transaction

Event.

          In the event of any other Major Transaction Event, each Holder shall
be entitled to exercise its Redemption Rights in full prior to the consummation
of such Major Transaction Event, and, with respect to any Shares acquired upon
exercise thereof, shall be entitled to all of the rights of the other holders of
Shares with respect to any distribution by the General Partner (or the other
party to such Major Transaction Event) in connection with such Major Transaction
Event. If not exercised within forty-five days after written notice from the
General Partner of such Major Transaction Event or such shorter period between
the date of such notice and the effective date of such Major Transaction Event,
the Redemption Rights shall terminate at the expiration of such period, but the
Redemption Rights shall be revived if such Major Transaction Event is not
consummated.

          The Partnership shall give written notice of any Major Transaction
Event promptly after such Major Transaction is announced to the public.

          The provisions of this Section 6 shall apply to successive events that
may occur from time to time but only shall apply to a particular event if it
occurs prior to the exercise in full of the Redemption Rights or the liquidation
of the Partnership. Nothing contained herein shall prevent or otherwise limit
the liquidation of the Partnership pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, as
amended from time to time.

          Whenever the Conversion Factor is adjusted as herein provided, the
General Partner shall compute the adjusted Conversion Factor in accordance with
this Section 6 and shall prepare a certificate signed by the chief financial
officer of the General Partner setting forth the adjusted Conversion Factor and
showing in reasonable detail the facts upon which such adjustment is based, and
such certificate shall forthwith be filed at the offices of the General Partner.

          Miscellaneous Provisions.

          Notices. All notices or other communications given pursuant to this
Agreement, including without limitation any Notice, shall be sent to the party
to whom or to which such notice is being sent, by certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, commercial overnight delivery service, facsimile or
delivered by hand with receipt acknowledged in writing and otherwise as set
forth in this Section 7.1. All notices (a) shall be deemed given when received
or, if mailed as described above, after 5 Business Days or, if sent by
facsimile, upon receipt of confirmed answerback and (b) may be given either by a
party or by such party's attorneys. For purposes of this Section 7.1, the
addresses of the parties shall be, in the case of the Partnership and the
General Partner, 110 North Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, facsimile
number (312) 960-5463, Attention: Matthew Bucksbaum and Bernard Freibaum (with a
copy to Neal, Gerber & Eisenberg, Two North LaSalle Street, Suite 2200, Chicago,
Illinois 60602, Attn.: Marshall E. Eisenberg), and, in the case of each

Contributing Partner, as set forth on the records of the Partnership. The
address of any party may be changed by a notice in writing given in accordance
with the provisions hereof.

          Assignment. The rights of any Contributing Partner hereunder
(including the Redemption Rights) shall automatically devolve upon any Person to
the extent that such Person holds Units, and becomes a substituted partner with
respect to such Units, in accordance with the Partnership Agreement, as amended
from time to time, and delivers to the Partnership a written instrument, in form
reasonably satisfactory to the Partnership, pursuant to which such Person agrees
to be bound by the terms hereof (but the rights of any Contributing Partner
hereunder are not otherwise assignable). Subject to the provisions of Section 6,
the General Partner may assign this Agreement without the consent of
Contributing Partner, provided that no such assignment shall relieve the General
Partner of its obligations under this Agreement.

          Binding Effect. Except as otherwise set forth herein, this Agreement
shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties and their
successors and permitted assigns.

          Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Delaware (without regard to its conflicts of law principles).

          Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one document.

          Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement
among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any
prior written or oral understandings and/or agreements among them with respect
thereto.

          Pronouns; Headings; Etc. As used herein, all pronouns shall include
the masculine, feminine and neuter, and all terms shall include the singular and
plural thereof wherever the context and facts require such construction. The
headings herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are to be
ignored in any construction of the provisions hereof. Any references in this
Agreement to a "Section" or "Exhibit" shall refer to a Section or Exhibit of
this Agreement unless otherwise specified.

          Survival. The representations, warranties and covenants contained
herein or made pursuant hereto shall survive the execution and delivery of this
Agreement and the closing of any redemption or purchase and sale pursuant to an
exercise of Redemption Rights hereunder.

          Further Assurances. Each of the parties shall hereafter execute and
deliver such other instruments and documents and do such further acts and things
as may be required or useful to carry out the purposes of this Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the date
first above written.

CONTRIBUTING PARTNERS:

MSV PROPERTIES, L.L.C.,
a Georgia limited liability company

By: Sealy Retail Properties, L.L.C.

By: /s/ Mark P. Sealy
    ---------------------------------
Its: Member
     --------------------------------

SHREVE CAPITAL, INC.,
a Louisiana corporation

By:  /s/ Edward J. Crawford
     ---------------------------------
Its: President
     --------------------------------

CMS/VALLEY FORGE REAL ESTATE OPPORTUNITY
FUND, L.P., a Delaware limited
partnership

By: /s/ CMS/VF Associates, LP
    ---------------------------------
Its: General Partner
     --------------------------------

/s/ Harry J. Butler, Jr.
- -------------------------------------
HARRY J. BUTLER, JR.

SEALY RETAIL PROPERTIES, L.L.C.,
a Louisiana limited liability company

/s/ Mark P. Sealy
- -------------------------------------
Mark P. Sealy, member

/s/ Scott P. Sealy
- -------------------------------------
SCOTT P. SEALY

/s/ Mark P. Sealy
- -------------------------------------
MARK P. SEALY

/s/ Gwen Sealy
- -------------------------------------
GWEN SEALY

/s/ Scott P. Sealy
- -------------------------------------
SCOTT P. SEALY, not individually but solely as Trustee for

(i) J. Pollard Sealy Trust for Scott P. Sealy,

(ii) J. Pollard Sealy Trust for Laura Celeste Sealy Curtis,

(iii) J. Pollard Sealy Trust for Mark P. Sealy,

(iv) J. Pollard Sealy Trust for Lisa Wood Sealy Hollier, and

(v) J. Pollard Sealy Trust for Sue Sealy Geren.

PARTNERSHIP:

GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
a Delaware limited partnership

By: General Growth Properties, Inc.
    a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
    ---------------------------------
Its: Senior Vice President
     --------------------------------

GENERAL PARTNER:

General Growth Properties, Inc.
a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
    ---------------------------------
Its: Senior Vice President
     --------------------------------

Notice of Redemption

     The undersigned hereby irrevocably (i) exercises its Redemption Rights as
to ___________ common units of limited partnership interest (the "Units") in GGP
Limited Partnership (the "Partnership") in accordance with the terms of that
certain Redemption Rights Agreement, dated _______________, 1998 (the
"Agreement"), among the Partnership, General Growth Properties, Inc. (the
"General Partner"), and the other parties thereto, (ii) transfers and surrenders
such Units and all right, title and interest of the undersigned therein to the
party, which shall be either the Partnership or the General Partner, that shall
purchase or redeem such Units pursuant to the Agreement, and (iii) directs that
the Cash Purchase Price or Share Purchase Price payable upon exercise of the
Redemption Right be delivered to the address specified below and, if the Share
Purchase Price is to be delivered, the Shares shall be registered or placed in
the name(s) and at the address(es) specified below.

     The undersigned hereby represents, warrants, certifies and agrees (i) that
the undersigned has good and marketable title to the Units, free and clear of
all Liens, (ii) that the undersigned has the full right, power and authority to
transfer and surrender the Units as provided herein and such transfer and
surrender has

been authorized by all necessary action, and (iii) that the undersigned has
obtained the consent or approval of all persons or entities, if any, having the
right to consent to or approve such transfer and surrender.

     Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings set
forth in the Agreement.

Dated:
       ------------------------------

                                        SEALY RETAIL PROPERTIES, L.L.C.,
                                        a Louisiana limited
                                        liability company

----------------------------------------
                                        Mark P. Sealy

                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        (Street Address)

                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        City (State (Zip Code)

                                        Signature Guaranteed by

----------------------------------------

If Shares are to be issued, issue to: __________________________________________

Please insert social security or identifying number: ___________________________

</EX-4.10>

<EX-4.16>
 13
 c02442exv4w16.txt
 FORM OF REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

Exhibit 4.16

                          REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

                                     between

                        GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.,

                                MARTIN BUCKSBAUM,

                               MATTHEW BUCKSBAUM,

                             MB CAPITAL PARTNERS I,

                             MB CAPITAL PARTNERS II,

                                       and

                             GENERAL TRUST COMPANY,
                    as trustee of trusts established for the
                   benefit of members of the Bucksbaum family

                    Dated: As of _________________ __, 1993

TABLE OF CONTENTS

-i-

-ii-

REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

          This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT is made as of the _______ day of
___________________ 1993 (this "Agreement"), among GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES,
INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"). MARTIN BUCKSBAUM, MATTHEW
BUCKSBAUM, MB CAPITAL PARTNERS I, a _____________________________ partnership,
MB CAPITAL PARTNERS II, a _____________________________ partnership and GENERAL
TRUST COMPANY, as trustee of trusts established for the benefit of members of
the Bucksbaum family (each an "Investor" and collectively the "Investors").

                                  WITNESSETH:

          WHEREAS, the Investors will hold an aggregate of [____________] shares
(the "Investor Shares") of common stock, par value $.10 per share, of the
Company (the "Common Stock") and a [____________]% limited partnership interest
(the "LP Interests") in GGP Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership,
which may be converted into shares of Common stock; and

          WHEREAS, the Company has agreed to provide Investors with certain
registration rights as set forth herein;

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and
undertakings contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration,
the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and subject to and
on the terms and conditions herein set forth, the parties hereto agree as
follows:

                                    ARTICLE I

                              CERTAIN DEFINITIONS.

          1.1. "Business Day" means any day on which the New York Stock Exchange
is open for trading.

          1.2. "Eligible Securities" means all or any portion of the Investors
Shares and any shares of Common Stock acquired by the Investors upon conversion
of the LP Interests.

          As to any proposed offer or sale of Eligible Securities, such
securities shall cease to be Eligible Securities with respect to such proposed
offer or sale when (i) a registration statement with respect to the sale of

such securities shall have become effective under the Securities Act and such
securities shall have been disposed of in accordance with such registration
statement or (ii) such securities are permitted to be distributed pursuant to
Rule 144(k) (or any successor provision to such Rule) under the Securities Act
to be confirmed in a written opinion of counsel to the Company addressed to the
Investors, or (iii) such securities shall have been otherwise transferred
pursuant to an applicable exemption under the Securities Act, new certificates
for such securities not bearing a legend restricting further transfer shall have
been delivered by the Company and such securities shall be freely transferable
to the public without registration under the Securities Act.

          1.3. "person" means an individual, a partnership (general or limited),
corporation, joint venture, business trust, cooperative, association or other
form of business organization, whether or not regarded as a legal entity under
applicable law, a trust (inter vivos or testamentary), an estate of a deceased,
insane or incompetent person, a quasi-governmental entity, a government or any
agency, authority, political subdivision or other instrumentality thereof, or
any other entity.

          1.4. "Permitted Transferees" with respect to each Investor shall mean
any Affiliates of such Investor, as defined in the Agreement of Limited
Partnership of GGP Limited Partnership, dated __________ ____, 1993.

          1.5. "Registration Expenses" means all expenses incident to the
Company's performance of or compliance with the registration requirements set
forth in this Agreement including, without limitation, the following: (i) the
fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's counsel(s) (United States and
foreign), accountants and experts in connection with the registration of
Eligible Securities to be disposed of under the Securities Act; (ii) all
expenses in connection with the preparation, printing and filing of the
registration statement, any preliminary prospectus or final prospectus, any
other offering document and amendments and supplements thereto and the mailing
and delivering of copies thereof to the underwriters and dealers; (iii) the cost
of printing or producing any agreement(s) among underwriters, underwriting
agreement(s) and blue sky or legal investment memoranda, any selling agreements
and any other documents in connection with the offering, sale or delivery of
Eligible Securities to be disposed of; (iv) all expenses in connection with the
qualification of Eligible

-2-

Securities to be disposed of for offering and sale under state securities laws,
including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the underwriters in
connection with such qualification and in connection with any blue sky and legal
investment surveys; (v) the filing fees incident to securing any required review
by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. of the terms of the sale
of Eligible Securities to be disposed of; and (vi) fees and expenses incurred in
connection with the listing of Eligible Securities on each securities exchange
on which securities of the same class are then listed; provided, however, that
Registration Expenses with respect to any registration pursuant to this
Agreement shall not include underwriting discounts or commissions attributable
to Eligible Securities, SEC or blue sky registration fees attributable to
Eligible Securities or transfer taxes applicable to Eligible Securities.

          1.6. "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.

          1.7. "Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder, all as the same
shall be in effect at the relevant time.

                                   ARTICLE II

                      EFFECTIVENESS OF REGISTRATION RIGHTS

          2.1 Effectiveness of Registration Rights. This Agreement shall become
effective immediately, provided. however, that the exercise of any registration
rights granted pursuant to Articles 3 and 4 hereof prior to the third
anniversary of the date of the prospectus to be used by the Company in its
initial public offering of shares of Common Stock (the "IPO") shall be subject
to the Investors first having received written consent from the Company and
Goldman, Sachs & Co. to the waiver of the restrictions on transfer of the Common
Stock held by the Investors under the terms of the letter agreement restricting
such transfers, to be entered by the Investors and the underwriters in
connection with the IPO.

-3-

ARTICLE III

                              REGISTRATION REQUEST

          3.1 NOTICE. Upon written notice front an Investor requesting that the
Company effect the registration under the Securities Act of all or part of the
Eligible Securities held by such Investor, which notice shall specify the
intended method or methods of disposition of such Eligible Securities, the
Company will use all reasonable efforts to effect (at the earliest possible
date) the registration, under the Securities Act, of such Eligible Securities
for disposition in accordance with the intended method or methods of disposition
stated in such request, provided that:

          (a) if the Company shall have previously effected a registration with
     respect to Eligible Securities pursuant to Article 4 hereof, the Company
     shall not be required to effect a registration pursuant to this Article 3
     until a period of one hundred twenty (120) days shall have elapsed from the
     effective date of the most recent such previous registration;

          (b) if, upon receipt of a registration request pursuant to this
     Article 3, the Company is advised in writing (with a copy to the Selling
     Shareholders (as defined below)) by a nationally recognized independent
     investment banking firm selected by the Company to act as lead underwriter
     in connection with a public offering of securities by the Company that, in
     such firm's opinion, a registration at the time and on the terms requested
     would materially adversely affect such public offering of securities by the
     Company (other than an offering in connection with employee benefit and
     similar plans) (a "Company Offering") that had been contemplated by the
     Company prior to the notice by the Investors who initially requested
     registration, the Company shall not be required to effect a registration
     pursuant to this Article 3 until the earliest of (i) three months after
     the completion of such Company Offering, (ii) the termination of any "black
     out" period, if any, required by the underwriters to be applicable to the
     Selling Investors (as defined below) in connection with such Company
     Offering and agreed to in writing by the Selling Investors, (iii) promptly
     after abandonment of such Company Offering or (iv) four months after the
     date of written notice from the Investor who initially requested
     registration;

-4-

(c) if, while a registration request is pending pursuant to Article 3,
     the Company determines in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors
     of the Company, with the advice of counsel, that the filing of a
     registration statement would require the disclosure of non-public material
     information the disclosure of which would have a material adverse effect on
     the Company or would otherwise adversely affect a material financing,
     acquisition, disposition, merger or other comparable transaction, the
     Company shall deliver a certificate to such effect signed by its President
     or any Vice President to the Selling Shareholders and the Company shall not
     be required to effect a registration pursuant to this Article 3 until the
     earlier of (i) the date upon which such material information is disclosed
     to the public or ceases to be material or (ii) 60 days after the Company
     makes such good faith determination; and

          (d) the Company shall not be required to effect more than one
     registration pursuant to this Article 3 in any calendar year. No
     registration of Eligible Securities under this Article 3 shall relieve the
     Company of its obligation (if any) to effect registrations of Eligible
     Securities pursuant to Article 4.

          3.2. Registration Expenses. With respect to the registrations
requested pursuant to this Article 3 and any registration arising from an
exercise of a Blackout Termination Right (as defined below), the Company shall
pay all Registration Expenses.

          3.3. Third Person Shares. (a) Upon receipt of the written notice from
an Investor requesting registration under Section 3.1, the Company shall give
written notice to each other Investor, the other parties (the "Primary Third
Parties") entitled to substantially similar registration rights under a
Registration Rights Agreement entered into by the Company on the date hereof and
the parties (the "Incidental Parties") entitled only to incidental registration
rights pursuant to an Incidental Registration Rights Agreement entered into by
the Company on the date hereof. The Company shall have the right to cause the
registration of securities for sale for the account of any Person in any
registration of Eligible Securities requested pursuant to this Article 3 who has
delivered written notice to the Company within fifteen (15) business days (which
notice shall specify the number of shares to be disposed of

-5-

and the intended method of disposition), provided that the Company shall not
have the right to cause the registration of all of such securities if the
Investor who requested such registration is advised in writing (with a copy to
the Company) by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm
selected by such Investor that, in such firm's opinion, registration of all of
such securities would adversely affect the offering and sale of Eligible
Securities then contemplated by such Investor. The Investor or Investors and any
other Persons who elect to participate in an offering pursuant to registration
rights are referred to herein as the "Selling Shareholders". The Investor or
Investors who initially requested registration pursuant to Section 3.1 and each
other Investor who elects to participate in such offering are herein referred to
as the "Selling Investors".

          (b) If the Company cannot, pursuant to the terms of this Section 3.3,
register all of the shares requested to be registered, the Company shall
register the Maximum Amount (as defined below), and such amount shall be
allocated among the Persons requesting registrations follows:

          (i) if the Selling Investors and the Principal Third Parties each
     exercise registration rights on the same day, the Maximum Amount shall be
     allocated between such Persons pro rata according to the number of shares
     for which registration was initially requested by each such Person; and

          (ii) in all other cases in which both Selling Investors and the
     Principal Third Parties seek to register shares, the Maximum Amount shall
     be allocated pro rata according to the total number of shares of Common
     Stock owned by the Investors taken as a whole on the one hand and the
     Principal Third Party on the other hand on the day the Company first
     received the demand request with respect to such registration.

For purposes of this Section, "Maximum Amount" shall mean the largest number of
shares (if any) which, after deducting any shares for which registration is
requested by any Incidental Parties, in the opinion of the nationally recognized
underwriter selected by the Investors for purposes of Section 3.3(a), could be
offered to the public without adversely affecting the offering and sale of
Eligible Securities as then contemplated by the Selling Investors.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if any Incidental
Party seeks to register

-6-

shares in a registration that was initiated by the Selling Investors under this
Article 3, such Incidental Party shall not suffer any reduction in the number of
shares it seeks to register pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section
3.3(b).

          (c) In the event that both Selling Investors taken as a whole on the
one hand and the Principal Third Parties on the other hand exercise registration
rights on the same day, the party (as between such two parties) who initially
requested registration of the larger number of shares shall be entitled to
select the lead underwriter for such registered offering. In all other cases,
the first Person to exercise registration rights with respect to any
registration demand shall be entitled to select the lead underwriter for such
registered offering.

                                   ARTICLE IV

                            INCIDENTAL REGISTRATION.

          4.1. Notice and Registration. If the Company proposes to register any
shares of Common Stock or other securities issued by it having terms
substantially similar to Eligible Securities ("Other Securities") for public
sale under the Securities Act (whether proposed to be offered for sale by the
Company or by any other Person) on a form and in a manner which would permit
registration of Eligible Securities for sale to the public under the Securities
Act, it will give prompt written notice to Investors of its intention to do so,
and upon the written request of Investors delivered to the Company within
fifteen (15) Business Days after the giving of any such notice (which request
shall specify the number of Eligible Securities intended to be disposed of by
Investors and the intended method of disposition thereof) the Company will use
all reasonable efforts to effect, in connection with the registration of the
Other Securities, the registration under the Securities Act of all Eligible
Securities which the Company has been so requested to register by the Selling
Investors, to the extent required to permit the disposition (in accordance with
the intended method or methods thereof as aforesaid) of Eligible Securities so
to be registered, provided that:

          (a) if, at any time after giving such written notice of its intention
     to register any Other Securities and prior to the effective date of the

-7-

registration statement filed in connection with such registration, the
     Company shall determine for any reason not to register the Other
     Securities, the Company may, at its election, give written notice of such
     determination to Investors and thereupon the Company shall be relieved of
     its obligation to register such Eligible Securities in connection with the
     registration of such Other Securities (but not from its obligation to pay
     Registration Expenses to the extent incurred in connection therewith as
     provided in Section 4.2), without prejudice, however, to the rights (if
     any) of Investors immediately to request that such registration be effected
     as a registration under Article 3;

          (b) The Company will not be required to effect any registration
     pursuant to this Article 4 if the Company shall have been advised in
     writing (with a copy to the Selling Investors) by a nationally recognized
     independent investment banking firm selected by the Company to act as lead
     underwriter in connection with the public offering of securities by the
     Company that, in such firm's opinion, a registration at that time would
     materially and adversely affect the Company's own scheduled offering,
     provided, however, that if an offering of some but not all of the shares
     requested to be registered by Investor would not adversely affect the
     Company's offering, the aggregate number of shares requested to be included
     in such offering by the Selling Shareholders (other than the Incidental
     Persons, whose requests shall not be reduced under this proviso) shall be
     reduced pro rata according to the total number of shares of Common Stock
     owned by the Investor on the one hand and the Principal Third Parties taken
     as a whole on the other hand on the day the Company first delivered its
     notice to the Investors of its proposed offering;

          (c) The Company shall not be required to effect any registration of
     Eligible Securities under this Article 4 incidental to the registration of
     any of its securities in connection with mergers, acquisitions, exchange
     offers, subscription offers, dividend reinvestment plans or stock options
     or other employee benefit plans.

No registration of Eligible Securities effected under this Article 4 shall
relieve the Company of its obligation (if

-8-

any) to effect registrations of Eligible Securities pursuant to Article 3.

          4.2. Registration Expenses. The Company (as between the Company and
the Selling Investors) shall be responsible for the payment of all Registration
Expenses in connection with any registration pursuant to this Article 4.

                                    ARTICLE V

                            REGISTRATION PROCEDURES.

          5.1. Registration and Qualification. If and whenever the Company is
required to use all reasonable efforts to effect the registration of any
Eligible Securities under the Securities Act as provided in Articles 3 or 4, the
Company will as promptly as is practicable:

          (a) prepare, file and use all reasonable efforts to cause to become
     effective a registration statement under the Securities Act regarding the
     Eligible Securities to be offered;

          (b) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and supplements to
     such registration statement and the prospectus used in connection therewith
     as may be necessary to keep such registration statement effective and to
     comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the
     disposition of all Eligible Securities until the earlier of such time as
     all of such Eligible Securities have been disposed of in accordance with
     the intended methods of disposition by the Selling Investors set forth in
     such registration statement or the expiration of twelve months after such
     Registration Statement becomes effective;

          (c) furnish to the Selling Investors and to any underwriter of such
     Eligible Securities such number of conformed copies of such registration
     statement and of each such amendment and supplement thereto (in each case
     including all exhibits), such number of copies of the prospectus included
     in such registration statement (including each preliminary prospectus and
     any summary prospectus), in conformity with the requirements of the
     Securities Act, such documents incorporated by reference in such
     registration statement or prospectus, and such other documents as the
     Selling Investors or such underwriter may reasonably request;

-9-

(d) use all reasonable efforts to register or qualify all Eligible
     Securities covered by such registration statement under such other
     securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Selling Investors
     or any underwriter of such Eligible Securities shall reasonably request,
     and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably requested
     by the Selling Investors or any underwriter to consummate the disposition
     in such jurisdictions of the Eligible Securities covered by such
     registration statement, except the Company shall not for any such purpose
     be required to qualify generally to do business as a foreign corporation in
     any jurisdiction wherein it is not so qualified, or to subject itself to
     taxation in any jurisdiction where it is not then subject to taxation, or
     to consent to general service of process in any jurisdiction where it is
     not then subject to service of process;

          (e) use all reasonable efforts to list the Eligible Securities on each
     national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed, if
     the listing of such securities is then permitted under the rules of such
     exchange;

          (f) (i) furnish to the Selling Investors, an opinion of counsel for
     the Company, addressed to them, dated the date of the closing under the
     underwriting agreement, and (ii) use all reasonable efforts to furnish to
     the Selling Investors, addressed to them, a "comfort letter" signed by
     the independent public accountants who have certified the Company's
     financial statements included in such registration statement, addressed to
     them, each such document covering substantially the same matters with
     respect to such registration statement (and the prospectus included
     therein) and, in the case of such accountants' letter, with respect to
     events subsequent to the date of such financial statements, as are
     customarily covered in opinions of issuer's counsel and in accountants'
     letters delivered to underwriters in underwritten public offerings of
     securities and such other matters as the Selling Investors may reasonably
     request; and

          (g) immediately notify the Selling Investors at any time when a
     prospectus relating to a registration pursuant to Article 3 or 4 hereof is
     required to be delivered under the Securities Act of the happening of any
     event as a result of which the prospectus included

-10-

in such registration statement, as then in effect, includes an untrue
     statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required
     to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the
     light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and
     at the request of the Selling investors prepare and furnish to the Selling
     Investors as many copies of a supplement to or an amendment of such
     prospectus as the Selling Investors reasonably request so that, as
     thereafter delivered to the purchasers of such Eligible Securities, such
     prospectus shall not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit
     to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make
     the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were
     made, not misleading.

The Company may require the Selling Investors to furnish the Company such
information regarding the Selling Investors and the distribution of such
securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing
and as shall be required by law or by the SEC in connection with any
registration.

          5.2. Underwriting. (a) If requested by the underwriters for any
underwritten offering of Eligible Securities pursuant to a registration
requested hereunder, the Company will enter into and perform its obligations
under an underwriting agreement with such underwriters for such offering, such
agreement to contain such representations and warranties by the Company and such
other terms and provisions as are customarily contained in underwriting
agreements with respect to secondary distributions, including, without
limitation, indemnities and contribution to the effect and to the extent
provided in Article 7 hereof and the provision of opinions of counsel and
accountants' letters to the effect and to the extent provided in Section 5.l(f).
The holders of Eligible Securities on whose behalf Eligible Securities are to be
distributed by such underwriters shall be parties to any such underwriting
agreement and the representations and warranties by, and the other agreements on
the part of, the company to and for the benefit of such underwriters shall also
be made to and for the benefit of such holders of Eligible Securities.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Selling Investor may elect, in writing prior
to the effective date of the registration statement filed in connection with
such registration, not to register such Eligible Securities in connection with
such registration.

-11-

(b) In the event that any registration pursuant to Article 4 hereof
shall involve, in whole or in part, an underwritten offering, the Company may
require Eligible Securities requested to be registered pursuant to Article 4 to
be included in such underwriting on the same terms and conditions as shall be
applicable to the Other Securities being sold through underwriters under such
registration. In such case, the holders of Eligible Securities on whose behalf
Eligible Securities are to be distributed by such underwriters shall be parties
to any such underwriting agreement. Such agreement shall contain such
representations and warranties by the Selling Investors and such other terms and
provisions as are customarily contained in underwriting agreements with respect
to secondary distributions, including, without limitation, indemnities and
contribution to the effect and to the extent provided in Article 7. The
representations and warranties in such underwriting agreement by, and the other
agreements on the part of, the Company to and for the benefit of such
underwriters shall also be made to and for the benefit of such holders of
Eligible Securities.

          5.3 Blackout Periods. (a) At any time when a registration statement
effected pursuant to Article 3 relating to Eligible Securities is effective,
upon written notice from the Company to Investors that the Company determines in
the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors of the Company, with the
advice of counsel, that Selling Investors' sale of Eligible Securities pursuant
to the registration statement would require disclosure of non-public material
information the disclosure of which would have a material adverse effect on the
Company (an "Information Blackout"), the Selling Investors shall suspend sales
of Eligible Securities pursuant to such registration statement until the earlier
of:

               (X) (A) the date upon which such material information is
          disclosed to the public or ceases to be material or (B) 60 days after
          the Company makes such good faith determination, and

               (Y) such time as the Company notifies the Selling Investors that
          sales pursuant to such registration statement may be resumed (the
          number of days from such suspension of sales by the Selling Investors
          until the day when such sales may be resumed hereunder is hereinafter
          called a "Sales Blackout Period").

-12-

(b) Any delivery by the Company of notice of an Information Blackout
during the 90 days immediately following effectiveness of any registration
statement effected pursuant to Article 3 hereof shall give the Investors the
right, by written notice to the Company within 20 Business Days after the end of
such blackout period, to cancel such registration and obtain one additional
registration right during such calendar year (a "Blackout Termination Right")
under Section 3.1(d).

          (c) If there is an Information Blackout and the Investors do not
exercise their cancellation right, if any, pursuant to (b) above, or, if such
cancellation right is not available, the time period set forth in Section 5.l(b)
shall be extended for a number of days equal to the number of days in the Sales
Blackout Period.

          5.4. QUALIFICATION FOR RULE 144 SALES. The Company will take all
actions reasonably necessary to comply with the filing requirements described in
Rule 144(c)(l) so as to enable the Investors to sell Eligible Securities without
registration under the Securities Act and, upon the written request of any
Investor, the Company will deliver to such Investor a written statement as to
whether it has complied with such filing requirements.

                                   ARTICLE VI

                     PREPARATION: REASONABLE INVESTIGATION.

          6.1. PREPARATION: REASONABLE INVESTIGATION. In connection with the
preparation and filing of each registration statement registering Eligible
Securities under the Securities Act, the Company will give the Selling Investors
and the underwriters, if any, and their respective counsel and accountants,
drafts of such registration statement for their review and comment prior to
filing and such reasonable and customary access to its books and records and
such opportunities to discuss the business of the Company with its officers and
the independent public accountants who have certified its financial statements
as shall be necessary, in the opinion of the Selling Investors and such
underwriters or their respective counsel, to conduct a reasonable investigation
within the meaning of the Securities Act.

-13-

ARTICLE VII

                       INDEMNIFICATION AND CONTRIBUTION.

          7.1. INDEMNIFICATION AND CONTRIBUTION. (a) In the event of any
registration of any Eligible Securities hereunder, the Company will enter into
customary indemnification arrangements to indemnify and hold harmless each
Investor who exercises his registration rights hereunder and, to the extent
applicable, its directors and officers, its partners, its trustees and each
Person who controls any of such Persons, each Person who participates as an
underwriter in the offering or sale of such securities, and each Person, if any,
who controls such underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act against
any losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses, joint or several, to
which such Person may be subject under the Securities Act or otherwise insofar
as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses (or actions or
proceedings in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon (i) any untrue
statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any
registration statement under which such securities were registered under the
Securities Act, any preliminary prospectus or final prospectus included therein,
or any amendment or supplement thereto, or any document incorporated by
reference therein, or (ii) any omission or alleged omission to state therein a
material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements
therein not misleading, and the Company will promptly reimburse each such Person
for any legal or any other expenses reasonably incurred by such Person in
connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage,
liability, action or proceeding; provided that the Company shall not be liable
in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage, liability (or
action or proceeding in respect thereof) or expenses arises out of or is based
upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged
omission made in such registration statement, any such preliminary prospectus or
final prospectus, amendment or supplement in reliance upon and in conformity
with written information furnished to the Company by such Selling Investors or
such underwriter expressly for use in the registration statement. Such indemnity
shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by or
on behalf of Investors or any such Person and shall survive the transfer of such
securities by the Investors. The Company also shall agree to provide provision
for contribution as shall be reasonably

-14-

requested by the investors or any underwriters in circumstances where such
indemnity is held unenforceable.

          (b) The Selling Investors, by virtue of exercising their registration
rights hereunder, agree and undertake to enter into customary indemnification
arrangements to severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless (in the
same manner and to the same extent as set forth in clause (a) of this Article 7)
the Company, each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who shall
sign such registration statement, each Person who participates as an underwriter
in the offering or sale of such securities, each Person, if any, who controls
the Company or any such underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act,
with respect to any statement in or omission from such registration statement,
any preliminary prospectus or final prospectus included therein, or any
amendment or supplement thereto, but only to the extent that such statement or
omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information
furnished by such Selling Investors to the Company expressly for use in the
registration statement. Such indemnity shall remain in full force and effect
regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company or any such
director, officer or controlling Person and shall survive the transfer of the
registered securities by the Selling Investors and the expiration of this
Agreement. The Selling Investors also shall agree to provide provision for
contribution as shall be reasonably requested by the Company or any underwriters
in circumstance where such indemnity if held unenforceable.

          (c) Indemnification and contribution similar to that specified in the
preceding subdivisions of this Article 7 (with appropriate modifications) shall
be given by the Company and the Selling Investors with respect to any required
registration or other qualification of such Eligible Securities under any
federal or state law or regulation of governmental authority other than the
Securities Act.

                                  ARTICLE VIII

                        BENEFITS OF REGISTRATION RIGHTS.

          8.1. BENEFITS OF REGISTRATION RIGHTS. Subject to the limitations of
Sections 3.1 and 4.1, Investors and any Permitted Transferees of Eligible
Securities may severally or jointly exercise the registration rights hereunder
in

-15-

such manner and in such proportion as they shall agree among themselves.

                                   ARTICLE IX

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

          9.1 CAPTIONS. The captions or headings in this Agreement are for
convenience and reference only, and in no way define, describe, extend or limit
the scope or intent of this Agreement.

          9.2 SEVERABILITY. If any clause, provision or section of this
Agreement shall be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability
of such clause, provision or section shall not affect the enforceability or
validity of any of the remaining clauses, provisions or sections hereof to the
extent permitted by applicable law.

          9.3 GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in
accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to
its rules as to conflicts or choice of laws.

          9.4 MODIFICATION aND AMENDMENT. This Agreement may not be changed,
modified, discharged or amended, except by an instrument signed by all of the
parties hereto.

          9.5 COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one
and the same instrument.

          9.6 ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement
and understanding among the parties and supersedes any prior understandings
and/or written or oral agreements among them respecting the subject matter
herein.

          9.7. NOTICES. All notices, requests, demands, consents and other
communications required or permitted to be given pursuant to this Agreement
shall be in writing and delivered by hand, by overnight courier delivery service
or by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid. Notices shall
be deemed given when actually received, which shall be deemed to be not later
than the next Business Day if sent by overnight courier or after five

-16-

(5) Business Days if sent by mail. Notice to Investors shall be made to the
address listed on the stock transfer records of the Company.

-17-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement or
caused this Agreement to be executed as of the day and year first above written.

                                        GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

By:
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                              ----------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                               ---------------------------------

By:
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Martin Bucksbaum

By:
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Matthew Bucksbaum

MB CAPITAL I

By:
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                              ----------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                               ---------------------------------

-18-

MB CAPITAL II

By:
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                              ----------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                               ---------------------------------

GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, as Trustee for
                                        the members of the Bucksbaum Family

By:
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                              ----------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                               ---------------------------------

-19-

</EX-4.16>

<EX-4.19>
 14
 c02442exv4w19.txt
 RIGHTS AGREEMENT

Exhibit 4.19

================================================================================

                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

                                       and

                          NORWEST BANK MINNESOTA, N.A.

                                  Rights Agent

                                Rights Agreement

                          Dated as of November 18, 1998

================================================================================

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page
                                                                            ----
                                                                         
Section 1.    Certain Definitions........................................      1
Section 2.    Appointment of Rights Agent................................      9
Section 3.    Issue of Right Certificates................................      9
Section 4.    Form of Right Certificates.................................     12
Section 5.    Countersignature and Registration..........................     13
Section 6.    Transfer, Split Up, Combination and Exchange of Right
              Certificates; Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Right
              Certificates...............................................     14
Section 7.    Exercise of Rights; Purchase Price; Expiration Date of
              Rights.....................................................     15
Section 8.    Cancellation of Right Certificates.........................     18
Section 9.    Status and Availability of Preferred Shares, etc...........     19
Section 10.   Preferred Shares Record Date...............................     20
Section 11.   Adjustment of Purchase Price, Number of Shares or Number of
              Rights.....................................................     21
Section 12.   Certificate of Adjustment..................................     36
Section 13.   Consolidation, Merger or Sale or Transfer of Assets or
              Earning Power..............................................     37
Section 14.   Fractional Rights and Fractional Shares....................     40
Section 15.   Rights of Action...........................................     42
Section 16.   Agreement of Right Holders.................................     43
Section 17.   Right Certificate Holder Not Deemed a Stockholder..........     44
Section 18.   Concerning the Rights Agent................................     44
Section 19.   Merger or Consolidation or Change of Name of Rights Agent..     45
Section 20.   Duties of Rights Agent.....................................     47

i

ii

RIGHTS AGREEMENT

          Agreement, dated as of November 18, 1998, between General Growth
Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Norwest Bank
Minnesota, N.A. (the "Rights Agent").

          The Board of Directors of the Company has authorized and declared a
dividend of one preferred share purchase right (a "Right") for each share of
Common Stock, par value $.10 per share, of the Company (a "Common Share")
outstanding on the Close of Business on December 10, 1998 (the "Record Date")
and has authorized the issuance of one Right with respect to each additional
Common Share that shall become outstanding between the Record Date and the
earliest of the Close of Business on the Distribution Date, the Redemption Date
and the Close of Business on the Final Expiration Date (as such terms are
hereinafter defined), each Right representing the right to purchase one
one-thousandth of a Preferred Share (as hereinafter defined), or such different
amount and/or kind of securities as shall be hereinafter provided.

          Accordingly, in consideration of the premises and the mutual
agreements herein set forth, the parties hereby agree as follows:

          Section 1. Certain Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, the
following terms have the meanings indicated:

          "Acquiring Person" shall mean any Person who or which, together with
all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, shall be the Beneficial Owner of
15% or more of the Common Shares of the Company then outstanding or, in the case
of (i) a Bucksbaum Holder, the greater of: (A) 15% and (B) such percentage of
the then

outstanding Common Shares of the Company which is in excess of the percentage
such Person is permitted to Beneficially Own consistent with the terms of, and
subject to the restrictions contained in, the Rights Agreement, dated as of July
27, 1993, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Bucksbaum Rights
Agreement"), among the Company and the Limited Partners referred to therein,
plus 1%, and (ii) a Homart Holder, the greater of: (A) 15% and (B) such
percentage of the then outstanding Common Shares of the Company which is in
excess of the percentage which a Homart Holder would Beneficially Own upon the
exchange of all of the shares of Class B Common Stock of GGP/Homart, Inc., a
Delaware corporation, Beneficially Owned by such Homart Holder for Common Shares
pursuant to the terms of, and subject to the restrictions contained in, the
Stockholders Agreement, dated as of December 20, 1995, as the same may be
amended from time to time (the "Homart Agreement"), by and among GGP/Homart,
Inc., the Company and the other parties listed on the signature pages thereof,
plus 1% (the limits on ownership described in clauses (i) and (ii) being
referred to as the "Grandfathered Limits"), but shall not include (1) the
Company, (2) any Subsidiary of the Company, (3) any employee benefit plan of the
Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, or (4) any entity holding Common
Shares for or pursuant to the terms of any such employee benefit plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) no Person shall become an "Acquiring Person"
as the result of an acquisition of Common Shares by the Company which, by
reducing the number of shares outstanding, increases the proportionate number of
shares

-2-

beneficially owned by such Person to 15% (or such other percentage as would
otherwise result in such person becoming an Acquiring Person) or more of the
Common Shares of the Company then outstanding; provided, however, that if a
Person shall so become the Beneficial Owner of 15% (or such other percentage) or
more of the Common Shares of the Company then outstanding by reason of an
acquisition of Common Shares by the Company and shall, after such share
purchases by the Company, become the Beneficial Owner of an additional 1% of the
outstanding Common Shares of the Company, then such Person shall be deemed to be
an "Acquiring Person"; and (y) if the Board of Directors of the Company
determines in good faith that a Person who would otherwise be an "Acquiring
Person," as defined pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, has
become such inadvertently, and such Person divests as promptly as practicable a
sufficient number of Common Shares so that such Person would no longer be an
"Acquiring Person," as defined pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this
paragraph, then such Person shall not be deemed to have become an "Acquiring
Person" for any purposes of this Agreement.

          "Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules
and regulations promulgated thereunder.

          "Affiliate" and "Associate" shall have the respective meanings
ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as in
effect on the date of this Agreement.

-3-

"Attribution Rules" shall mean the ownership attribution rules of
Section 544 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), as
modified by Section 856(h)(1)(B) of the Code.

          A Person shall be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of and shall be deemed
to "beneficially own" any securities:

               (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or
Associates beneficially owns, directly or indirectly;

               (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or
Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable
immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement,
arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and between
underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide public
offering of securities), written or otherwise, or upon the exercise of
conversion rights, exchange rights, rights (other than the Rights), warrants or
options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed to
be the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, securities tendered pursuant
to a tender or exchange offer made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the
applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act by or on
behalf of such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until
such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange; or (B) the right
to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; provided,
however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to

-4-

beneficially own, any security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding to
vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to
such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant
to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations promulgated
under the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D under
the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report); or

               (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by
any other Person with which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or
Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary
agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with respect
to a bona fide public offering of securities), written or otherwise, for the
purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except to the extent contemplated by the
proviso to section (B) of the immediately preceding paragraph (ii)) or disposing
of any securities of the Company.

          Notwithstanding anything in this definition of Beneficial Ownership to
the contrary, the phrase "then outstanding," when used with reference to a
Person's Beneficial Ownership of securities of the Company, shall mean the
number of such securities then issued and outstanding together with the number
of such securities not then actually issued and outstanding which such Person
would be deemed to own beneficially hereunder.

-5-

"Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or a
day on which banking institutions in the State of Illinois are authorized or
obligated by law or executive order to close.

          "Certificate" shall mean the Second Amended and Restated Certificate
of Incorporation of the Company, as amended.

          "Close of Business" on any given date shall mean 5:00 P.M. Chicago,
Illinois time, on such date; provided, however, that if such date is not a
Business Day it shall mean 5:00 P.M., Chicago, Illinois time, on the next
succeeding Business Day.

          "Common Shares" when used with reference to the Company shall mean the
shares of common stock, par value $.10 per share, of the Company. "Common
Shares" when used with reference to any Person other than the Company shall mean
the capital stock (or equity interest) with the greatest voting power of such
other Person or, if such other Person is a Subsidiary of another Person, the
Person or Persons which ultimately control such first-mentioned Person.

          "common stock equivalents" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
11(a)(iii)(B)(3) hereof.

          "Constructive Ownership Rules" shall mean the ownership attribution
rules of Section 318(a) of the Code, as modified by Section 856(d)(5) of the
Code.

          "Current Value" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
11(a)(iii)(A)(1) hereof.

-6-

"Distribution Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)
hereof.

          "equivalent preferred shares" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 11(b) hereof.

          "Exchange Ratio" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 24(a)
hereof.

          "Existing Holder Limit" shall have the meaning set forth in the
Certificate.

          "Final Expiration Date" shall mean November 18, 2008.

          "Grandfathered Stockholders" shall mean (i) M.B. Capital Partners III,
a South Dakota general partnership, its partners, Matthew Bucksbaum, any
descendants of Martin Bucksbaum or Matthew Bucksbaum, the spouses of any of the
foregoing individuals, trusts for the benefit of any of the foregoing
individuals and the trustees thereof, and the respective Affiliates and
Associates of the foregoing Persons (each, a "Bucksbaum Holder"); and (ii) the
holders of shares of Class B Common Stock of GGP/Homart, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, and their Affiliates and Associates (each, a "Homart Holder").

          "Ownership Limit" shall have the meaning set forth in the Certificate.

          "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, partnership,
limited partnership, limited liability partnership, business trust, limited
liability company, unincorporated association or other entity, and shall include
any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity.

-7-

"Purchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b)
hereof.

          "Preferred Shares" shall mean shares of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock, par value $100.00 per share, of the Company having such rights
and preferences upon adoption as are set forth in the form of Certificate of
Designation set forth as Exhibit A hereto.

          "Redemption Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 23
hereof.

          "Right Certificate" shall mean a certificate evidencing a Right in
substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto.

          "Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 11(a)(iii) hereof.

          "Shares Acquisition Date" shall mean the earlier of the date of (i)
the public announcement by the Company or an Acquiring Person that an Acquiring
Person has become such or (ii) the public disclosure of facts by the Company or
an Acquiring Person indicating that an Acquiring Person has become such.

          "Spread" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(iii)(A)
hereof.

          "Subsidiary" of any Person shall mean any Person of which a majority
of the voting power of the voting equity securities or equity interests is
owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person.

          "Substitution Period" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
11(a)(iii) hereof.

-8-

"Summary of Rights" shall mean the Summary of Rights to Purchase
Preferred Shares in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto.

          Section 2. Appointment of Rights Agent. The Company hereby appoints
the Rights Agent to act as agent for the Company and the holders of the Rights
(who, in accordance with Section 3 hereof, shall prior to the Distribution Date
also be the holders of the Common Shares) in accordance with the terms and
conditions hereof, and the Rights Agent hereby accepts such appointment. The
Company may from time to time appoint such co-Rights Agents as it may deem
necessary or desirable, upon ten (10) days' prior written notice to the Rights
Agent. The Rights Agent shall have no duty to supervise, and in no event be
liable for, the acts or omissions of any such co-Rights Agent.

          Section 3. Issue of Right Certificates.

               (a) Until the earlier of (i) the tenth day after the Shares
Acquisition Date or (ii) the tenth Business Day (or such later date as may be
determined by action of the Board of Directors prior to such time as any Person
becomes an Acquiring Person) after the date of the commencement by any Person
(other than the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, any employee benefit
plan of the Company or of any Subsidiary of the Company or any entity holding
Common Shares for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan) of, or of the first
public announcement of the intention of any Person (other than any of the
Persons referred to in the preceding parenthetical) to commence, a tender or
exchange offer the

-9-

consummation of which would result in any Person becoming the Beneficial Owner
of Common Shares aggregating 15% or more of the then outstanding Common Shares
or, in the case of the Grandfathered Shareholders, becoming the Beneficial Owner
of an aggregate number of then outstanding Common Shares which would exceed the
applicable Grandfathered Limit (such date being herein referred to as the
"Distribution Date"), (x) the Rights will be evidenced (subject to the
provisions of Section 3(b) hereof) by the certificates for Common Shares
registered in the names of the holders thereof (which certificates shall also be
deemed to be Right Certificates) and not by separate Right Certificates, and (y)
the right to receive Right Certificates will be transferable only in connection
with the transfer of Common Shares. As soon as practicable after the
Distribution Date, the Company will prepare and execute, the Rights Agent will
countersign, and the Company will send or cause to be sent (and the Rights Agent
will, if requested, send) by first-class, insured, postage-prepaid mail, to each
record holder of Common Shares as of the Close of Business on the Distribution
Date, at the address of such holder shown on the records of the Company, a Right
Certificate evidencing one Right for each Common Share so held. As of the
Distribution Date, the Rights will be evidenced solely by such Right
Certificates.

               (b) On the Record Date, or as soon as practicable thereafter, the
Company will send a copy of the Summary of Rights by first-class,
postage-prepaid mail, to each record holder of Common Shares as of the Close of
Business on the Record Date, at

-10-

the address of such holder shown on the records of the Company. With respect to
certificates for Common Shares outstanding as of the Record Date, until the
Close of Business on the Distribution Date, the Rights will be evidenced by such
certificates registered in the names of the holders thereof together with a copy
of the Summary of Rights attached thereto. Until the Close of Business on the
Distribution Date (or the earlier of the Redemption Date or the Close of
Business on the Final Expiration Date), the surrender for transfer of any
certificate for Common Shares outstanding on the Record Date, with or without a
copy of the Summary of Rights attached thereto, shall also constitute the
transfer of the Rights associated with the Common Shares evidenced thereby.

               (c) Certificates for Common Shares which become outstanding
(including, without limitation, reacquired Common Shares referred to in the last
sentence of this paragraph (c)) after the Record Date but prior to the earliest
of the Close of Business on the Distribution Date, the Redemption Date or the
Close of Business on the Final Expiration Date shall have impressed on, printed
on, written on or otherwise affixed to them the following legend:

               This certificate also evidences and entitles the holder hereof to
               certain Rights as set forth in a Rights Agreement between General
               Growth Properties, Inc. and Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., as
               Rights Agent, dated as of November 18, 1998 (the "Rights
               Agreement"), the terms of which are hereby incorporated herein by
               reference and a copy of which is on file at the principal
               executive offices of General Growth Properties, Inc. Under
               certain circumstances, as set forth in the Rights Agreement, such
               Rights will be evidenced by separate

-11-

certificates and will no longer be evidenced by this certificate.
               General Growth Properties, Inc. will mail to the holder of this
               certificate a copy of the Rights Agreement without charge after
               receipt of a written request therefor. Under certain
               circumstances, Rights that are or were acquired or beneficially
               owned by Acquiring Persons (as defined in the Rights Agreement)
               may become null and void.

With respect to such certificates containing the foregoing legend, until the
Close of Business on the Distribution Date, the Rights associated with the
Common Shares represented by certificates shall be evidenced by such
certificates alone, and the surrender for transfer of any such certificate shall
also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated with the Common Shares
represented thereby. In the event that the Company purchases or acquires any
Common Shares after the Record Date but prior to the Close of Business on the
Distribution Date, any Rights associated with such Common Shares shall be deemed
canceled and retired so that the Company shall not be entitled to exercise any
Rights associated with the Common Shares which are no longer outstanding.

          Section 4. Form of Right Certificates. The Right Certificates (and the
forms of election to purchase Preferred Shares and of assignment to be printed
on the reverse thereof) shall be substantially the same as Exhibit B hereto and
may have such marks of identification or designation and such legends, summaries
or endorsements printed thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, or as may be required to
comply with any applicable law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant
thereto or with any

-12-

rule or regulation of any stock exchange on which the Rights may from time to
time be listed, or to conform to usage. Subject to the other provisions of this
Agreement, the Right Certificates shall entitle the holders thereof to purchase
such number of one one-thousandths of a Preferred Share as shall be set forth
therein at the Purchase Price, but the number of one one-thousandths of a
Preferred Share and the Purchase Price shall be subject to adjustment as
provided herein.

          Section 5. Countersignature and Registration. The Right Certificates
shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its
Chief Executive Officer, its President, any of its Vice Presidents, or its
Treasurer, either manually or by facsimile signature, shall have affixed thereto
the Company's seal or a facsimile thereof, and shall be attested by the
Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company, either manually or by
facsimile signature. The Right Certificates shall be countersigned by the Rights
Agent and shall not be valid for any purpose unless so countersigned, either
manually or by facsimile. In case any officer of the Company who shall have
signed any of the Right Certificates shall cease to be such officer of the
Company before countersignature by the Rights Agent and issuance and delivery by
the Company, such Right Certificates, nevertheless, may be countersigned by the
Rights Agent and issued and delivered by the Company with the same force and
effect as though the person who signed such Right Certificates had not ceased to
be such officer of the Company; and any Right Certificate may be signed on
behalf of

-13-

the Company by any person who, at the actual date of the execution of such Right
Certificate, shall be a proper officer of the Company to sign such Right
Certificate, although at the date of the execution of this Rights Agreement any
such person was not such an officer.

          Following the Distribution Date, the Rights Agent will keep or cause
to be kept, at its principal office, books for registration of the transfer of
the Right Certificates issued hereunder. Such books shall show the names and
addresses of the respective holders of the Right Certificates, the number of
Rights evidenced on its face by each of the Right Certificates and the date of
each of the Right Certificates.

          Section 6. Transfer, Split Up, Combination and Exchange of Right
Certificates; Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Right Certificates. Subject
to the provisions of Section 14 hereof, at any time after the Close of Business
on the Distribution Date, and prior to the earlier of the Redemption Date or the
Close of Business on the Final Expiration Date, any Right Certificate or Right
Certificates (other than Right Certificates representing Rights that have become
void pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii) hereof or that have been exchanged pursuant
to Section 24 hereof) may be transferred, split up, combined or exchanged for
another Right Certificate or Right Certificates, entitling the registered holder
to purchase a like number of one one-thousandths of a Preferred Share as the
Right Certificate or Right Certificates surrendered then entitled such holder to
purchase. Any registered holder

-14-

desiring to transfer, split up, combine or exchange any Right Certificate or
Right Certificates shall make such request in writing delivered to the Rights
Agent, and shall surrender the Right Certificate or Right Certificates to be
transferred, split up, combined or exchanged at the principal office of the
Rights Agent. Thereupon the Rights Agent shall countersign and deliver to the
person entitled thereto a Right Certificate or Right Certificates, as the case
may be, as so requested. The Company may require payment of a sum sufficient for
any tax or governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any
transfer, split up, combination or exchange of Right Certificates.

          Upon receipt by the Company and the Rights Agent of evidence
reasonably satisfactory to them of the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of
a Right Certificate, and, in case of loss, theft or destruction, of indemnity or
security reasonably satisfactory to them, and, at the Company's request,
reimbursement to the Company and the Rights Agent of all reasonable expenses
incidental thereto, and upon surrender to the Rights Agent and cancellation of
the Right Certificate if mutilated, the Company will make and deliver a new
Right Certificate of like tenor to the Rights Agent for delivery to the
registered holder in lieu of the Right Certificate so lost, stolen, destroyed or
mutilated.

          Section 7. Exercise of Rights; Purchase Price; Expiration Date of
Rights.

               (a) The registered holder of any Right Certificate (other than a
holder whose Rights have become void

-15-

pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii) hereof or have been exchanged pursuant to Section
24 hereof) may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby in whole or in part at any
time after the Distribution Date upon surrender of the Right Certificate, with
the form of election to purchase on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to
the Rights Agent at its principal office, together with payment of the Purchase
Price for each one one-thousandth of a Preferred Share as to which the Rights
are exercised, prior to the earliest of (i) the Close of Business on the Final
Expiration Date, (ii) the time at which the right to exercise the Rights
terminates pursuant to Section 23 hereof, or (iii) the time at which the right
to exercise the Rights terminates pursuant to Section 24 hereof.

               (b) The purchase price for each one one-thousandth of a Preferred
Share to be purchased upon the exercise of a Right shall initially be One
Hundred Forty Eight Dollars ($148.00) (the "Purchase Price"), shall be subject
to adjustment from time to time as provided in Sections 11 and 13 hereof and
shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America in accordance
with paragraph (c) below.

               (c) Upon receipt of a Right Certificate representing exercisable
Rights, with the form of election to purchase and certificate duly executed,
accompanied by payment of the Purchase Price for the number of one
one-thousandths of a Preferred Share to be purchased and an amount equal to any
applicable transfer tax required to be paid by the holder of such Right
Certificate in accordance with Section 9 hereof by cash,

-16-

certified check, cashier's check or money order payable to the order of the
Company, the Rights Agent shall thereupon promptly (i) (A) requisition from any
transfer agent of the Preferred Shares certificates for the number of one
one-thousandths of a Preferred Share to be purchased and the Company hereby
irrevocably authorizes its transfer agent to comply with all such requests, or
(B) requisition from any depositary agent for the Preferred Shares depositary
receipts representing such number of one one-thousandths of a Preferred Share as
are to be purchased (in which case certificates for the Preferred Shares
represented by such receipts shall be deposited by the transfer agent with the
depositary agent) and the Company hereby directs the depositary agent to comply
with such request, (ii) when appropriate, requisition from the Company the
amount of cash to be paid in lieu of issuance of fractional Preferred Shares in
accordance with Section 14 hereof, (iii) after receipt of such certificates or
depositary receipts, cause the same to be delivered to or upon the order of the
registered holder of such Right Certificate, registered in such name or names as
may be designated by such holder and (iv) when appropriate, after receipt,
deliver such cash to or upon the order of the registered holder of such Right
Certificate.

               (d) In case the registered holder of any Right Certificate shall
exercise less than all the Rights evidenced thereby, a new Right Certificate
evidencing Rights equivalent to the Rights remaining unexercised shall be issued
by the Rights Agent to the registered holder of such Right Certificate or to his

-17-

duly authorized assigns, subject to the provisions of Section 14 hereof.

               (e) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary,
neither the Rights Agent nor the Company shall be obligated to undertake any
action with respect to a registered holder upon the occurrence of any purported
exercise as set forth in this Section 7 unless such registered holder shall have
(i) completed and signed the certificate following the form of election to
purchase set forth on the reverse side of the Right Certificate surrendered for
such exercise and (ii) provided such additional evidence of the identity of the
Beneficial Owner (or former Beneficial Owner) or Affiliates or Associates
thereof as the Company shall reasonably request.

          Section 8. Cancellation of Right Certificates. All Right Certificates
surrendered for the purpose of exercise, transfer, split up, combination or
exchange shall, if surrendered to the Company or to any of its agents, be
delivered to the Rights Agent for cancellation or in canceled form, or, if
surrendered to the Rights Agent, shall be canceled by it, and no Right
Certificates shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly permitted by
any of the provisions of this Rights Agreement. The Company shall deliver to the
Rights Agent for cancellation and retirement, and the Rights Agent shall so
cancel and retire, any other Right Certificate purchased or acquired by the
Company otherwise than upon the exercise thereof. The Rights Agent shall deliver
all canceled Right Certificates to the Company.

-18-

Section 9. Status and Availability of Preferred Shares, etc.

               (a) The Company covenants and agrees that it will take all such
action as may be necessary to ensure that all Preferred Shares delivered upon
exercise of Rights shall, at the time of delivery of the certificates for such
Preferred Shares (subject to payment of the Purchase Price), be duly and validly
authorized and issued and fully paid and non-assessable shares.

               (b) The Company further covenants and agrees that it will
pay when due and payable any and all federal and state transfer taxes and
charges which may be payable in respect of the issuance or delivery of the Right
Certificates or of any Preferred Shares upon the exercise of Rights. The Company
shall not, however, be required to pay any transfer tax which may be payable in
respect of any transfer or delivery of Right Certificates to a person other
than, or the issuance or delivery of certificates or depositary receipts for the
Preferred Shares in a name other than that of, the registered holder of the
Right Certificate evidencing Rights surrendered for exercise or to issue or to
deliver any certificates or depositary receipts for Preferred Shares upon the
exercise of any Rights until any such tax shall have been paid (any such tax
being payable by the holder of such Right Certificate at the time of surrender)
or until it has been established to the Company's reasonable satisfaction that
no such tax is due.

               (c) The Company covenants and agrees that it will cause to be
reserved and kept available, out of its authorized and

-19-

unissued Preferred Shares or any Preferred Shares held in its treasury, the
number of Preferred Shares that will be sufficient to permit the exercise in
full of all outstanding Rights in accordance with Section 7 hereof.

               (d) The Company shall use its best efforts, to the extent
required by law, (i) to file, as soon as practicable following the earliest date
after the first occurrence of an event described in Section 11(a)(ii) in which
the consideration to be delivered by the Company upon exercise of the Rights has
been determined in accordance with Section 11(a)(ii) and (iii) hereof, or as
soon as is required by law following the Distribution Date, as the case may be,
a registration statement under the Act on an appropriate form, with respect to
the securities purchasable upon exercise of the Rights, (ii) to cause such
registration statement to become effective as soon as practicable after such
filing, and (iii) to cause such registration statement to remain effective (with
a prospectus at all times meeting the requirements of the Act) until the earlier
of (A) the date as of which the Rights are no longer exercisable for such
securities and (B) the Expiration Date. The Company will also take such action
as may be appropriate under, or to ensure compliance with, the securities or
"blue sky" laws of the various states in connection with the exercisability of
the Rights.

          Section 10. Preferred Shares Record Date. Each person in whose name
any certificate for Preferred Shares is issued upon the exercise of Rights shall
for all purposes be deemed to have become

-20-

the holder of record of the Preferred Shares represented thereby on, and such
certificate shall be dated, the date upon which the Right Certificate evidencing
such Rights was duly surrendered and payment of the Purchase Price (and any
applicable transfer taxes) was made. Prior to the exercise of the Rights
evidenced thereby, the holder of a Right Certificate shall not be entitled to
any rights of a holder of Preferred Shares for which the Rights shall be
exercisable, including, without limitation, the right to vote, to receive
dividends or other distributions or to exercise any preemptive rights, and shall
not be entitled to receive any notice of any proceedings of the Company, except
as provided herein.

          Section 11. Adjustment of Purchase Price, Number of Shares or Number
of Rights. The Purchase Price, the number of Preferred Shares covered by each
Right and the number of Rights outstanding are subject to adjustment from time
to time as provided in this Section 11.

               (a)(i) In the event the Company shall at any time after the date
of this Agreement (A) declare a dividend on the Preferred Shares payable in
Preferred Shares, (B) subdivide the outstanding Preferred Shares, (C) combine
the outstanding Preferred Shares into a smaller number of Preferred Shares or
(D) issue any shares of its capital stock in a reclassification of the Preferred
Shares (including any such reclassification in connection with a consolidation
or merger in which the Company is the continuing or surviving corporation),
except as otherwise provided in this Section 11(a), the Purchase Price in effect
at the time of the

-21-

record date for such dividend or of the effective date of such subdivision,
combination or reclassification, and the number and kind of shares of capital
stock issuable on such date, shall be proportionately adjusted so that the
holder of any Right exercised after such time shall be entitled to receive the
aggregate number and kind of shares of capital stock which, if such Right had
been exercised immediately prior to such date, he would have owned upon such
exercise and been entitled to receive by virtue of such dividend, subdivision,
combination or reclassification; provided, however, that in no event shall the
consideration to be paid upon the exercise of one Right be less than the
aggregate par value of the shares of capital stock of the Company issuable upon
exercise of one Right.

               (ii) Subject to the following paragraph of this subparagraph (ii)
and to Section 24 of this Agreement, in the event any Person shall become an
Acquiring Person, each holder of a Right shall thereafter have a right to
receive, upon exercise thereof at a price equal to the then current Purchase
Price multiplied by the number of one one-thousandths of a Preferred Share for
which a Right is then exercisable, in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement and in lieu of Preferred Shares, such number of Common Shares of the
Company as shall equal the result obtained by (x) multiplying the then current
Purchase Price by the number of one one-thousandths of a Preferred Share for
which a Right is then exercisable and dividing that product by (y) 50% of the
then current per share market price of the Company's Common Shares

-22-

(determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) on the date such Person became an
Acquiring Person. In the event that any Person shall become an Acquiring Person
and the Rights shall then be outstanding, the Company shall not take any action
that would eliminate or diminish the benefits intended to be afforded by the
Rights.

          From and after the occurrence of such an event, any Rights that are or
were acquired or beneficially owned by such Acquiring Person (or any Associate
or Affiliate of such Acquiring Person) on or after the earlier of (x) the date
of such event and (y) the Distribution Date shall be void and any holder of such
Rights shall thereafter have no right to exercise such Rights under any
provision of this Agreement. No Right Certificate shall be issued pursuant to
Section 3 that represents Rights beneficially owned by an Acquiring Person whose
Rights would be void pursuant to the preceding sentence or any Associate or
Affiliate thereof; no Right Certificate shall be issued at any time upon the
transfer of any Rights to an Acquiring Person whose Rights would be void
pursuant to the preceding sentence or any Associate or Affiliate thereof or to
any nominee of such Acquiring Person, Associate or Affiliate; and any Right
Certificate delivered to the Rights Agent for transfer to an Acquiring Person
whose Rights would be void pursuant to the preceding sentence or any Associate
or Affiliate thereof shall be canceled.

               (iii) In the event that the number of Common Shares which are
authorized by the Company's certificate of incorporation

-23-

and not outstanding or subscribed for, or reserved or otherwise committed for
issuance for purposes other than upon exercise of the Rights, are not sufficient
to permit the holder of each Right to purchase the number of Common Shares to
which he would be entitled upon the exercise in full of the Rights in accordance
with the foregoing subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of this Section 11, or
should the Board of Directors so elect, the Company shall: (A) determine the
excess of (1) the value of the Common Shares issuable upon the exercise of a
Right (calculated as provided in the last sentence of this subparagraph (iii))
pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii) hereof (the "Current Value") over (2) the Purchase
Price (such excess, the "Spread"), and (B) with respect to each Right, make
adequate provision to substitute for such Common Shares, upon payment of the
applicable Purchase Price, any one or more of the following having an aggregate
value determined by the Board of Directors to be equal to the Current Value: (1)
cash, (2) a reduction in the Purchase Price, (3) Common Shares or other equity
securities of the Company (including, without limitation, shares, or units of
shares, of preferred stock which the Board of Directors of the Company has
determined to have the same value as shares of Common Stock (such shares of
preferred stock, "common stock equivalents")), (4) debt securities of the
Company, or (5) other assets; provided, however, if the Company shall not have
made adequate provision to deliver value pursuant to clause (B) above within
thirty (30) days following the first occurrence of an event triggering the
rights to purchase Common Shares described in

-24-

Section 11(a)(ii) (the "Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date"), then the Company shall
be obligated to deliver, upon the surrender for exercise of a Right and without
requiring payment of the Purchase Price, shares of Common Stock (to the extent
available) and then, if necessary, cash, which shares and cash have an aggregate
value equal to the Spread. If the Board of Directors of the Company shall
determine in good faith that it is likely that sufficient additional Common
Shares could be authorized for issuance upon exercise in full of the Rights, the
thirty (30) day period set forth above may be extended to the extent necessary,
but not more than ninety (90) days after the Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date, in
order that the Company may seek stockholder approval for the authorization of
such additional shares (such period, as it may be extended, the "Substitution
Period"). To the extent that the Company determines that some action need be
taken pursuant to the first and/or second sentences of this Section 11(a)(iii),
the Company (x) shall provide, subject to Section 7(e) hereof and the last
paragraph of Section 11(a)(ii) hereof, that such action shall apply uniformly to
all outstanding Rights, and (y) may suspend the exercisability of the Rights
until the expiration of the Substitution Period in order to seek any
authorization of additional shares and/or to decide the appropriate form of
distribution to be made pursuant to such first sentence and to determine the
value thereof. In the event of any such suspension, the Company shall make a
public announcement, and shall deliver to the Rights Agent a statement, stating
that the exercisability of

-25-

the Rights has been temporarily suspended. At such time as the suspension is no
longer in effect, the Company shall make another public announcement, and
deliver to the Rights Agent a statement, so stating. For purposes of this
Section 11(a)(iii), the value of the Common Shares shall be the current per
share market price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(i) hereof) of the
Common Shares on the Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date and the value of any common
stock equivalent shall be deemed to have the same value as the Common Shares on
such date.

               (b) In case the Company shall fix a record date for the issuance
of rights, options or warrants to all holders of Preferred Shares entitling them
(for a period expiring within 45 calendar days after such record date) to
subscribe for or purchase Preferred Shares (or shares having the same rights,
privileges and preferences as the Preferred Shares ("equivalent preferred
shares")) or securities convertible into Preferred Shares or equivalent
preferred shares at a price per Preferred Share or equivalent preferred share
(or having a conversion price per share, if a security convertible into
Preferred Shares or equivalent preferred shares) less than the then current per
share market price of the Preferred Shares (as defined in Section 11(d)) on such
record date, the Purchase Price to be in effect after such record date shall be
adjusted by multiplying the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such
record date by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of
Preferred Shares outstanding on such record date plus the number of Preferred
Shares which the

-26-

aggregate offering price of the total number of Preferred Shares and/or
equivalent preferred shares so to be offered (and/or the aggregate initial
conversion price of the convertible securities so to be offered) would purchase
at such current market price and the denominator of which shall be the number of
Preferred Shares outstanding on such record date plus the number of additional
Preferred Shares and/or equivalent preferred shares to be offered for
subscription or purchase (or into which the convertible securities so to be
offered are initially convertible); provided, however, that in no event shall
the consideration to be paid upon the exercise of one Right be less than the
aggregate par value of the shares of capital stock of the Company issuable upon
exercise of one Right. In case such subscription price may be paid in a
consideration part or all of which shall be in a form other than cash, the value
of such consideration shall be as determined in good faith by the Board of
Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be described in a statement
filed with the Rights Agent. Preferred Shares owned by or held for the account
of the Company shall not be deemed outstanding for the purpose of any such
computation. Such adjustment shall be made successively whenever such a record
date is fixed; and in the event that such rights, options or warrants are not so
issued, the Purchase Price shall be adjusted to be the Purchase Price which
would then be in effect if such record date had not been fixed.

               (c) In case the Company shall fix a record date for the making of
a distribution to all holders of the Preferred Shares

-27-

(including any such distribution made in connection with a consolidation or
merger in which the Company is the continuing or surviving corporation) of
evidences of indebtedness or assets (other than a regular quarterly cash
dividend or a dividend payable in Preferred Shares) or subscription rights or
warrants (excluding those referred to in Section 11(b) hereof), the Purchase
Price to be in effect after such record date shall be determined by multiplying
the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such record date by a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the then current per share market
price of the Preferred Shares on such record date, less the fair market value
(as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose
determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent) of
the portion of the assets or evidences of indebtedness so to be distributed or
of such subscription rights or warrants applicable to one Preferred Share and
the denominator of which shall be such current per share market price of the
Preferred Shares; provided, however, that in no event shall the consideration to
be paid upon the exercise of one Right be less than the aggregate par value of
the shares of capital stock of the Company to be issued upon exercise of one
Right. Such adjustments shall be made successively whenever such a record date
is fixed; and in the event that such distribution is not so made, the Purchase
Price shall again be adjusted to be the Purchase Price which would then be in
effect if such record date had not been fixed.

-28-

(d) (i) For the purpose of any computation hereunder, the
"current per share market price" of any security (a "Security" for the purpose
of this Section 11(d)(i)) on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the
daily closing prices per share of such Security for the 30 consecutive Trading
Days (as such term is hereinafter defined) immediately prior to such date;
provided, however, that in the event that the current per share market price of
the Security is determined during a period following the announcement by the
issuer of such Security of (A) a dividend or distribution on such Security
payable in shares of such Security or securities convertible into such shares,
or (B) any subdivision, combination or reclassification of such Security and
prior to the expiration of 30 Trading Days after the ex-dividend date for such
dividend or distribution, or the record date for such subdivision, combination
or reclassification, then, and in each such case, the current per share market
price shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect the current market price per
share equivalent of such Security. The closing price for each day shall be the
last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day,
the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as
reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect
to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange or,
if the Security is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system
with respect to securities listed on the principal

-29-

national securities exchange on which the Security is listed or admitted to
trading or, if the Security is not listed or admitted to trading on any national
securities exchange, the last quoted price or, if not so quoted, the average of
the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by
the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System
("NASDAQ") or such other system then in use, or, if on any such date the
Security is not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid
and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in
the Security selected by the Board of Directors of the Company. The term
"Trading Day" shall mean a day on which the principal national securities
exchange on which the Security is listed or admitted to trading is open for the
transaction of business or, if the Security is not listed or admitted to trading
on any national securities exchange, a Business Day.

                    (ii) For the purpose of any computation hereunder, the
"current per share market price" of the Preferred Shares shall be determined in
accordance with the method set forth in Section 11(d)(i). If the Preferred
Shares are not publicly traded, the "current per share market price" of the
Preferred Shares shall be conclusively deemed to be the current per share market
price of the Common Shares as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(i)
(appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or similar
transaction occurring after the date hereof), multiplied by 1000. If neither the
Common Shares nor the Preferred Shares are

-30-

publicly held or so listed or traded, "current per share market price" shall
mean the fair value per share as determined in good faith by the Board of
Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be described in a statement
filed with the Rights Agent.

               (e) No adjustment in the Purchase Price shall be required unless
such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% in the
Purchase Price; provided, however, that any adjustments which by reason of this
Section 11(e) are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken
into account in any subsequent adjustment. All calculations under this Section
11 shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest one ten-millionth of a
Preferred Share or one ten-thousandth of any other share or security as the case
may be. Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Section 11(e), any adjustment
required by this Section 11 shall be made no later than three years from the
date of the transaction which requires such adjustment.

               (f) If as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to Section
11(a) hereof, the holder of any Right thereafter exercised shall become entitled
to receive any shares of capital stock of the Company other than Preferred
Shares, the number of such other shares so receivable upon exercise of any Right
shall thereafter be subject to adjustment from time to time in a manner and on
terms as nearly equivalent as practicable to the provisions with respect to the
Preferred Shares contained in Section 11(a) through (c), inclusive, and the
provisions of Sections 7, 9, 10 and

-31-

13 with respect to the Preferred Shares shall apply on like terms to any such
other shares.

               (g) All Rights originally issued by the Company subsequent to any
adjustment made to the Purchase Price hereunder shall evidence the right to
purchase, at the adjusted Purchase Price, the number of one one-thousandths of a
Preferred Share purchasable from time to time hereunder upon exercise of the
Rights, all subject to further adjustment as provided herein.

               (h) Unless the Company shall have exercised its election as
provided in Section 11(i), upon each adjustment of the Purchase Price as a
result of the calculations made in Sections 11(b) and (c), each Right
outstanding immediately prior to the making of such adjustment shall thereafter
evidence the right to purchase, at the adjusted Purchase Price, that number of
one one-thousandths of a Preferred Share (calculated to the nearest one
ten-millionth of a Preferred Share) obtained by (i) multiplying (x) the number
of one one-thousandths of a share covered by a Right immediately prior to this
adjustment by (y) the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such
adjustment of the Purchase Price and (ii) dividing the product so obtained by
the Purchase Price in effect immediately after such adjustment of the Purchase
Price.

               (i) The Company may elect on or after the date of any adjustment
of the Purchase Price to adjust the number of Rights in substitution for any
adjustment in the number of one one-thousandths of a Preferred Share purchasable
upon the exercise of a Right. Each of the Rights outstanding after such
adjustment of

-32-

the number of Rights shall be exercisable for the number of one one-thousandths
of a Preferred Share for which a Right was exercisable immediately prior to such
adjustment. Each Right held of record prior to such adjustment of the number of
Rights shall become that number of Rights (calculated to the nearest one
hundred-thousandth) obtained by dividing the Purchase Price in effect
immediately prior to adjustment of the Purchase Price by the Purchase Price in
effect immediately after adjustment of the Purchase Price. The Company shall
make a public announcement of its election to adjust the number of Rights,
indicating the record date for the adjustment, and, if known at the time, the
amount of the adjustment to be made. This record date may be the date on which
the Purchase Price is adjusted or any day thereafter, but, if the Right
Certificates have been distributed, shall be at least 10 days later than the
date of the public announcement. If Right Certificates have been distributed,
upon each adjustment of the number of Rights pursuant to this Section 11(i), the
Company shall, as promptly as practicable, cause to be distributed to holders of
record of Right Certificates on such record date Right Certificates evidencing,
subject to Section 14 hereof, the additional Rights to which such holders shall
be entitled as a result of such adjustment, or, at the option of the Company,
shall cause to be distributed to such holders of record in substitution and
replacement for the Right Certificates held by such holders prior to the date of
adjustment, and upon surrender thereof, if required by the Company, new Right
Certificates evidencing all the Rights to

-33-

which such holders shall be entitled after such adjustment. Right Certificates
to be so distributed shall be issued, executed and countersigned in the manner
provided for herein and shall be registered in the names of the holders of
record of Right Certificates on the record date specified in the public
announcement.

               (j) Irrespective of any adjustment or change in the Purchase
Price or the number of one one-thousandths of a Preferred Share issuable upon
the exercise of the Rights, the Right Certificates theretofore and thereafter
issued may continue to express the Purchase Price and the number of one
one-thousandths of a Preferred Share which were expressed in the initial Right
Certificates issued hereunder.

               (k) Before taking any action that would cause an adjustment
reducing the Purchase Price below one one-thousandth of the then par value of
the Preferred Shares issuable upon exercise of the Rights, the Company shall
take any corporate action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary
in order that the Company may validly and legally issue fully paid and
non-assessable Preferred Shares at such adjusted Purchase Price.

               (l) In any case in which this Section 11 shall require that an
adjustment in the Purchase Price be made effective as of a record date for a
specified event, the Company may elect to defer until the occurrence of such
event the issuing to the holder of any Right exercised after such record date of
the Preferred Shares and other capital stock or securities of the Company, if

-34-

any, issuable upon such exercise over and above the Preferred Shares and other
capital stock or securities of the Company, if any, issuable upon such exercise
on the basis of the Purchase Price in effect prior to such adjustment; provided,
however, that the Company shall deliver to such holder a due bill or other
appropriate instrument evidencing such holder's right to receive such additional
shares upon the occurrence of the event requiring such adjustment.

               (m) Anything in this Section 11 to the contrary notwithstanding,
the Company shall be entitled to make such reductions in the Purchase Price, in
addition to those adjustments expressly required by this Section 11, as and to
the extent that it in its sole discretion shall determine to be advisable in
order that any (i) combination or subdivision of the Preferred Shares, (ii)
issuance wholly for cash of any Preferred Shares at less than the current market
price, (iii) issuance wholly for cash of Preferred Shares or securities which by
their terms are convertible into or exchangeable for Preferred Shares, (iv)
dividends on Preferred Shares payable in Preferred Shares or (v) issuance of any
rights, options or warrants referred to hereinabove in Section 11(b), hereafter
made by the Company to holders of its Preferred Shares shall not be taxable to
such stockholders.

               (n) In the event that at any time after the date of this
Agreement and prior to the Distribution Date, the Company shall (i) declare or
pay any dividend on the Common Shares payable in Common Shares or (ii) effect a
subdivision, combination or

-35-

consolidation of the Common Shares (by reclassification or otherwise other than
by payment of dividends in Common Shares) into a greater or lesser number of
Common Shares, then in any such case (A) the number of one one-thousandths of a
Preferred Share purchasable after such event upon proper exercise of each Right
shall be determined by multiplying the number of one one- thousandths of a
Preferred Share so purchasable immediately prior to such event by a fraction,
the numerator of which is the number of Common Shares outstanding immediately
before such event and the denominator of which is the number of Common Shares
outstanding immediately after such event, and (B) each Common Share outstanding
immediately after such event shall have issued with respect to it that number of
Rights which each Common Share outstanding immediately prior to such event had
issued with respect to it. The adjustments provided for in this Section 11(n)
shall be made successively whenever such a dividend is declared or paid or such
a subdivision, combination or consolidation is effected.

          Section 12. Certificate of Adjustment. Whenever an adjustment is made
as provided in Sections 11 and 13 hereof, the Company shall promptly (a) prepare
a certificate setting forth such adjustment, and a brief statement of the facts
accounting for such adjustment, (b) file with the Rights Agent and with each
transfer agent for the Common Shares or the Preferred Shares a copy of such
certificate and (c) mail a brief summary thereof to each holder of a Right
Certificate in accordance with Section 25 hereof. The

-36-

Rights Agent shall be fully protected in relying on any such certificate and on
any adjustment therein contained.

          Section 13. Consolidation, Merger or Sale or Transfer of Assets or
Earning Power.

          In the event that, at any time after a Person becomes an Acquiring
Person, directly or indirectly, (i) the Company shall consolidate with, or merge
with and into, any other Person, (ii) any Person shall consolidate with the
Company, or merge with and into the Company and the Company shall be the
continuing or surviving corporation of such merger and, in connection with such
merger, all or part of the Common Shares shall be changed into or exchanged for
stock or other securities of any other Person (or the Company) or cash or any
other property, or (iii) the Company shall sell or otherwise transfer (or one or
more of its Subsidiaries shall sell or otherwise transfer), in one or more
transactions, assets or earning power aggregating 50% or more of the assets or
earning power of the Company and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any
other Person other than the Company or one or more of its wholly-owned
Subsidiaries, then, and in each such case, proper provision shall be made so
that (A) each holder of a Right (except as otherwise provided herein) shall
thereafter have the right to receive, upon the exercise thereof at a price equal
to the then current Purchase Price multiplied by the number of one one-
thousandths of a Preferred Share for which a Right is then exercisable, in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement and in lieu of Preferred Shares,
such number of Common Shares of such

-37-

other Person (including the Company as successor thereto or as the surviving
corporation) as shall equal the result obtained by (x) multiplying the then
current Purchase Price by the number of one one-thousandths of a Preferred Share
for which a Right is then exercisable and dividing that product by (y) 50% of
the then current per share market price of the Common Shares of such other
Person (determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) on the date of consummation
of such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer; (B) the issuer of such Common
Shares shall thereafter be liable for, and shall assume, by virtue of such
consolidation, merger, sale or transfer, all the obligations and duties of the
Company pursuant to this Agreement; (C) the term "Company" shall thereafter be
deemed to refer to such issuer; and (D) such issuer shall take such steps
(including, but not limited to, the reservation of a sufficient number of its
Common Shares) in connection with such consummation as may be necessary to
assure that the provisions hereof shall thereafter be applicable, as nearly as
reasonably may be, in relation to the Common Shares thereafter deliverable upon
the exercise of the Rights. The Company covenants and agrees that it shall not
consummate any such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer unless prior thereto
the Company and such issuer shall have executed and delivered to the Rights
Agent a supplemental agreement so providing and further providing that, as soon
as practicable after the date of any such consolidation, merger, sale or
transfer, the issuer will:

-38-

(i) prepare and file a registration statement under the Act,
if necessary, with respect to the Rights and the securities purchasable upon
exercise of the Rights, on an appropriate form, and will use its best efforts to
cause such registration statement to (A) become effective as soon as practicable
after such filing and (B) remain effective (with a prospectus at all times
meeting the requirements of the Act) until the Final Expiration Date and
similarly comply with applicable state securities laws; and

                    (ii) deliver to record holders of the Rights historical
financial statements for the issuer and each of its Affiliates that comply in
all respects with the requirements for registration on Form 10 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder.

          The Company shall not enter into any transaction of the kind referred
to in this Section 13 if at the time of such transaction there are any rights,
warrants, instruments or securities outstanding or any agreements or
arrangements which, as a result of the consummation of such transaction, would
eliminate or substantially diminish the benefits intended to be afforded by the
Rights. The provisions of this Section 13 shall similarly apply to successive
mergers or consolidations or sales or other transfers. For purposes hereof, the
"earning power" of the Company and its Subsidiaries shall be determined in good
faith by the Company's Board of Directors on the basis of the operating earnings
of each business operated by the Company and its Subsidiaries

-39-

during the three fiscal years preceding the date of such determination (or, in
the case of any business not operated by the Company or any Subsidiary during
three full fiscal years preceding such date, during the period such business was
operated by the Company or any Subsidiary).

          Section 14. Fractional Rights and Fractional Shares.

               (a) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of
Rights or to distribute Right Certificates which evidence fractional Rights. In
lieu of such fractional Rights, there shall be paid to the registered holders of
the Right Certificates with regard to which such fractional Rights would
otherwise be issuable, an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the
current market value of a whole Right. For the purposes of this Section 14(a),
the current market value of a whole Right shall be the closing price of the
Rights for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date on which such
fractional Rights would have been otherwise issuable. The closing price for any
day shall be the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes
place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way,
in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting
system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York
Stock Exchange or, if the Rights are not listed or admitted to trading on the
New York Stock Exchange, as reported in the principal consolidated transaction
reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national
securities exchange on

-40-

which the Rights are listed or admitted to trading or, if the Rights are not
listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last
quoted price or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked
prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by NASDAQ or such other
system then in use or, if on any such date the Rights are not quoted by any such
organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a
professional market maker making a market in the Rights selected by the Board of
Directors of the Company. If on any such date no such market maker is making a
market in the Rights, the fair value of the Rights on such date as determined in
good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company shall be used.

               (b) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of
Preferred Shares (other than fractions which are integral multiples of one
one-thousandth of a Preferred Share) upon exercise of the Rights or to
distribute certificates which evidence fractional Preferred Shares (other than
fractions which are integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a Preferred
Share). Fractions of Preferred Shares in integral multiples of one
one-thousandth of a Preferred Share may, at the election of the Company, be
evidenced by depositary receipts, pursuant to an appropriate agreement between
the Company and a depositary selected by it; provided, that such agreement shall
provide that the holders of such depositary receipts shall have all the rights,
privileges and preferences to which they are entitled as beneficial owners of
the Preferred Shares represented by such depositary receipts. In

-41-

lieu of fractional Preferred Shares that are not integral multiples of one
one-thousandth of a Preferred Share, the Company shall pay to each registered
holder of Right Certificates at the time such Rights are exercised as herein
provided an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market
value of one Preferred Share as the fraction of one Preferred Share that such
holder would otherwise receive upon the exercise of the aggregate number of
rights exercised by such holder. For the purposes of this Section 14(b), the
current market value of a Preferred Share shall be the closing price of a
Preferred Share (as determined pursuant to the second sentence of Section
11(d)(i) hereof) for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date of such
exercise.

               (c) The holder of a Right by the acceptance of the Right
expressly waives any right to receive fractional Rights or fractional shares
upon exercise of a Right (except as provided above).

          Section 15. Rights of Action. All rights of action in respect of this
Agreement, excepting the rights of action given to the Rights Agent under
Section 18 hereof, are vested in the respective registered holders of the Right
Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, the registered holders of the
Common Shares); and any registered holder of any Right Certificate (or, prior to
the Distribution Date, of the Common Shares) may, without the consent of the
Rights Agent or of the holder of any other Right Certificate (or, prior to the
Distribution Date, of the Common Shares), on his own behalf and for his own
benefit, enforce, and

-42-

may institute and maintain any suit, action or proceeding against the Company to
enforce, or otherwise act in respect of, his right to exercise the Rights
evidenced by such Right Certificate in the manner provided in such Right
Certificate and in this Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing or any
remedies available to the holders of Rights, it is specifically acknowledged
that the holders of Rights would not have an adequate remedy at law for any
breach of this Agreement and will be entitled to specific performance of the
obligations under, and injunctive relief against actual or threatened violations
of the obligations of any Person subject to, this Agreement.

          Section 16. Agreement of Right Holders. Every holder of a Right, by
accepting the same, consents and agrees with the Company and the Rights Agent
and with every other holder of a Right that:

               (a) prior to the Distribution Date, the Rights will be
transferable only in connection with the transfer of the Common Shares;

               (b) after the Distribution Date, the Right Certificates are
transferable only on the registry books maintained by the Rights Agent if
surrendered at the principal office of the Rights Agent, duly endorsed or
accompanied by a proper instrument of transfer with a completed form of
certification; and

               (c) the Company and the Rights Agent may deem and treat the
person in whose name the Right Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date,
the associated Common Shares certificate) is

-43-

registered as the absolute owner thereof and of the Rights evidenced thereby
(notwithstanding any notations of ownership or writing on the Right Certificates
or the associated Common Shares certificate made by anyone other than the
Company or the Rights Agent) for all purposes whatsoever, and neither the
Company nor the Rights Agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

          Section 17. Right Certificate Holder Not Deemed a Stockholder. No
holder, as such, of any Right Certificate shall be entitled to vote, receive
dividends or be deemed for any purpose the holder of the Preferred Shares or any
other securities of the Company which may at any time be issuable on the
exercise of the Rights represented thereby nor shall anything contained herein
or in any Right Certificate be construed to confer upon the holder of any Right
Certificate, as such, any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company or any
right to vote for the election of directors or upon any matter submitted to
stockholders at any meeting thereof, or to give or withhold consent to any
corporate action, or to receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting
stockholders (except as provided in Section 25 hereof), or to receive dividends
or subscription rights, or otherwise, until the Right or Rights evidenced by
such Right Certificate shall have been exercised in accordance with the
provisions hereof.

          Section 18. Concerning the Rights Agent. The Company agrees to pay to
the Rights Agent reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it
hereunder and, from time to time, on demand of the Rights Agent, its reasonable
expenses and counsel fees and

-44-

other disbursements incurred in the administration and execution of this
Agreement and the exercise and performance of its duties hereunder. The Company
also agrees to indemnify the Rights Agent for, and to hold it harmless against,
any loss, liability, or expense, incurred without gross negligence, bad faith or
willful misconduct on the part of the Rights Agent, for anything done or omitted
by the Rights Agent in connection with the acceptance and administration of this
Agreement, including the costs and expenses of defending against any claim or
liability in connection therewith.

          The Rights Agent shall be protected and shall incur no liability for
or in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in connection with
its administration of this Agreement in reliance upon any Right Certificate or
certificate for Preferred Shares or Common Shares or for other securities of the
Company, instrument of assignment or transfer, power of attorney, endorsement,
affidavit, letter, notice, direction, consent, certificate, statement, or other
paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to be signed, executed and,
where necessary, verified or acknowledged, by the proper person or persons.

          Section 19. Merger or Consolidation or Change of Name of Rights Agent.
Any corporation into which the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent may be
merged or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from
any merger or consolidation to which the Rights Agent or any successor Rights
Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the

-45-

corporate trust business of the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent,
shall be the successor to the Rights Agent under this Agreement without the
execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the
parties hereto, provided that such corporation would be eligible for appointment
as a successor Rights Agent under the provisions of Section 21 hereof. In case
at the time such successor Rights Agent shall succeed to the agency created by
this Agreement, any of the Right Certificates shall have been countersigned but
not delivered, any such successor Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature of
the predecessor Rights Agent and deliver such Right Certificates so
countersigned; and in case at that time any of the Right Certificates shall not
have been countersigned, any successor Rights Agent may countersign such Right
Certificates either in the name of the predecessor Rights Agent or in the name
of the successor Rights Agent; and in all such cases such Right Certificates
shall have the full force provided in the Right Certificates and in this
Agreement.

          In case at any time the name of the Rights Agent shall be changed and
at such time any of the Right Certificates shall have been countersigned but not
delivered, the Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature under its prior name
and deliver Right Certificates so countersigned; and in case at that time any of
the Right Certificates shall not have been countersigned, the Rights Agent may
countersign such Right Certificates either in its prior name or in its changed
name; and in all such cases such Right

-46-

Certificates shall have the full force provided in the Right Certificates and in
this Agreement.

          Section 20. Duties of Rights Agent. The Rights Agent undertakes the
duties and obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement and no implied
duties or obligations shall be read into this Agreement against the Rights
Agent. The Rights Agent shall perform those duties and obligations upon the
following terms and conditions, by all of which the Company and the holders of
Right Certificates, by their acceptance thereof, shall be bound:

               (a) The Rights Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be
legal counsel for the Company), and the opinion of such counsel shall be full
and complete authorization and protection to the Rights Agent as to any action
taken or omitted by it in good faith and in accordance with such opinion.

               (b) Whenever in the performance of its duties under this
Agreement the Rights Agent shall deem it necessary or desirable that any fact or
matter be proved or established by the Company prior to taking or suffering any
action hereunder, such fact or matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof
be herein specifically prescribed) may be deemed to be conclusively proved and
established by a certificate signed by any one of the Chairman of the Board, the
President, a Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary of the Company and
delivered to the Rights Agent; and such certificate shall be full authorization
to the Rights Agent for any action taken or suffered in good faith by it under
the provisions of this Agreement in reliance upon such certificate.

-47-

(c) The Rights Agent shall be liable hereunder only for its own
gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct.

               (d) The Rights Agent shall not be liable for or by reason of any
of the statements of fact or recitals contained in this Agreement or in the
Right Certificates (except as to its countersignature thereof) or be required to
verify the same, but all such statements and recitals are and shall be deemed to
have been made by the Company only.

               (e) The Rights Agent shall not be under any responsibility in
respect of the validity of this Agreement or the execution and delivery hereof
(except the due execution hereof by the Rights Agent) or in respect of the
validity or execution of any Right Certificate (except its countersignature
thereof); nor shall it be responsible for any breach by the Company of any
covenant or condition contained in this Agreement or in any Right Certificate;
nor shall it be responsible for any adjustment required under the provisions of
Sections 11 or 13 hereof or responsible for the manner, method or amount of any
such adjustment or the ascertaining of the existence of facts that would require
any such adjustment (except with respect to the exercise of Rights evidenced by
Right Certificates after actual notice of any such adjustment); nor shall it by
any act hereunder be deemed to make any representation or warranty as to the
authorization or reservation of any Preferred Shares to be issued pursuant to
this Agreement or any Right Certificate or as to whether any Preferred Shares
will, when so

-48-

issued, be validly authorized and issued, fully paid and nonassessable.

               (f) The Company agrees that it will perform, execute, acknowledge
and deliver or cause to be performed, executed, acknowledged and delivered all
such further and other acts, instruments and assurances as may reasonably be
required by the Rights Agent for the carrying out or performing by the Rights
Agent of the provisions of this Agreement.

               (g) The Rights Agent is hereby authorized and directed to accept
instructions with respect to the performance of its duties hereunder from any
one of the Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice President, the Secretary
or the Treasurer of the Company, and to apply to such officers for advice or
instructions in connection with its duties, and it shall not be liable for any
action taken or suffered to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with
instructions of any such officer.

               (h) The Rights Agent and any stockholder, director, officer or
employee of the Rights Agent may buy, sell or deal in any of the Rights or other
securities of the Company or become pecuniarily interested in any transaction in
which the Company may be interested, or contract with or lend money to the
Company or otherwise act as fully and freely as though it were not Rights Agent
under this Agreement. Nothing herein shall preclude the Rights Agent from acting
in any other capacity for the Company or for any other legal entity.

-49-

(i) The Rights Agent may execute and exercise any of the
rights or powers hereby vested in it or perform any duty hereunder either itself
or by or through its attorneys or agents, and the Rights Agent shall not be
answerable or accountable for any act, default, neglect or misconduct of any
such attorneys or agents or for any loss to the Company resulting from any such
act, default, neglect or misconduct, provided reasonable care was exercised in
the selection and continued employment thereof.

          Section 21. Change of Rights Agent. The Rights Agent or any successor
Rights Agent may resign and be discharged from its duties under this Agreement
upon 90 days' notice in writing mailed to the Company and to each transfer agent
of the Common Shares and the Preferred Shares by registered or certified mail,
and to the holders of the Right Certificates by first-class mail. The Company
may remove the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent upon 30 days' notice
in writing, mailed to the Rights Agent or successor Rights Agent, as the case
may be, and to each transfer agent of the Common Shares and the Preferred Shares
by registered or certified mail, and to the holders of the Right Certificates by
first-class mail. If the Rights Agent shall resign or be removed or shall
otherwise become incapable of acting, the Company shall appoint a successor to
the Rights Agent. If the Company shall fail to make such appointment within a
period of 30 days after giving notice of such removal or after it has been
notified in writing of such resignation or incapacity by the resigning or
incapacitated Rights Agent or by the holder of a Right Certificate (who shall,
with such

-50-

notice, submit his Right Certificate for inspection by the Company), then the
registered holder of any Right Certificate may apply to any court of competent
jurisdiction for the appointment of a new Rights Agent. Any successor Rights
Agent, whether appointed by the Company or by such a court, shall be a
corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or
of any state of the United States, in good standing, having an office in the
State of Illinois or New York which is authorized under such laws to exercise
corporate trust powers and is subject to supervision or examination by federal
or state authority and which has at the time of its appointment as Rights Agent
a combined capital and surplus of at least $100 million. After appointment, the
successor Rights Agent shall be vested with the same powers, rights, duties and
responsibilities as if it had been originally named as Rights Agent without
further act or deed; but the predecessor Rights Agent shall deliver and transfer
to the successor Rights Agent any property at the time held by it hereunder, and
execute and deliver any further assurance, conveyance, act or deed necessary for
the purpose. Not later than the effective date of any such appointment the
Company shall file notice thereof in writing with the predecessor Rights Agent
and each transfer agent of the Common Shares and the Preferred Shares, and mail
a notice thereof in writing to the registered holders of the Right Certificates.
Failure to give any notice provided for in this Section 21, however, or any
defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of the resignation or
removal of the

-51-

Rights Agent or the appointment of the successor Rights Agent, as the case may
be.

          Section 22. Issuance of New Right Certificates. Notwithstanding any of
the provisions of this Agreement or of the Rights to the contrary, the Company
may, at its option, issue new Right Certificates evidencing Rights in such form
as may be approved by its Board of Directors to reflect any adjustment or change
in the Purchase Price and the number or kind or class of shares or other
securities or property purchasable under the Right Certificates made in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.

          Section 23. Redemption.

               (a) The Board of Directors of the Company may, at its option, at
any time prior to such time as any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, redeem
all but not less than all the then outstanding Rights at a redemption price of
$0.01 per Right, appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock
dividend or similar transaction occurring after the date hereof (such redemption
price being hereinafter referred to as the "Redemption Price"). The redemption
of the Rights by the Board of Directors may be made effective at such time, on
such basis and subject to such conditions as the Board of Directors in its sole
discretion may establish.

               (b) Immediately upon the time of the effectiveness of the
redemption of the Rights pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 23 or such
earlier time as may be determined by the Board

-52-

of Directors of the Company in the action ordering such redemption (although not
earlier than the time of such action) (such time the "Redemption Date"), and
without any further action and without any notice, the right to exercise the
Rights shall terminate and the only right thereafter of the holders of Rights
shall be to receive the Redemption Price. The Company shall promptly give public
notice of any such redemption; provided, however, that the failure to give, or
any defect in, any such notice shall not affect the validity of such redemption.
Within 10 days after such action of the Board of Directors ordering the
redemption of the Rights pursuant to paragraph (a), the Company shall mail a
notice of redemption to all the holders of the then outstanding Rights at their
last addresses as they appear upon the registry books of the Rights Agent or,
prior to the Distribution Date, on the registry books of the transfer agent for
the Common Shares. Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided
shall be deemed given, whether or not the holder receives the notice. If the
payment of the Redemption Price is not included with such notice, each such
notice shall state the method by which the payment of the Redemption Price will
be made. Neither the Company nor any of its Affiliates or Associates may redeem,
acquire or purchase for value any Rights at any time in any manner other than
that specifically set forth in this Section 23 or in Section 24 hereof, other
than in connection with the purchase of Common Shares prior to the Distribution
Date.

-53-

Section 24. Exchange.

               (a) The Board of Directors of the Company may, at its option, at
any time after any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, exchange all or part of
the then outstanding and exercisable Rights (which shall not include Rights that
have become void pursuant to the provisions of Section 11(a)(ii) hereof) for
Common Shares at an exchange ratio of one Common Share per Right, appropriately
adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or similar transaction
occurring after the date hereof (such exchange ratio being hereinafter referred
to as the "Exchange Ratio"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of
Directors shall not be empowered to effect such exchange at any time after any
Person (other than the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, any employee
benefit plan of the Company or any such Subsidiary, or any entity holding Common
Shares for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan), together with all
Affiliates and Associates of such Person, becomes the Beneficial Owner of a
majority of the Common Shares then outstanding.

               (b) Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of the
Company ordering the exchange of any Rights pursuant to subsection (a) of this
Section 24 and without any further action and without any notice, the right to
exercise such Rights shall terminate and the only right thereafter of a holder
of such Rights shall be to receive that number of Common Shares equal to the
number of such Rights held by such holder multiplied by the Exchange Ratio. The
Company shall promptly give public notice of

-54-

any such exchange; provided, however, that the failure to give, or any defect
in, such notice shall not affect the validity of such exchange. The Company
promptly shall mail a notice of any such exchange to all of the holders of such
Rights at their last addresses as they appear upon the registry books of the
Rights Agent. Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be
deemed given, whether or not the holder receives the notice. Each such notice of
exchange will state the method by which the exchange of the Common Shares for
Rights will be effected and, in the event of any partial exchange, the number of
Rights which will be exchanged. Any partial exchange shall be effected pro rata
based on the number of Rights (other than Rights which have become void pursuant
to the provisions of Section 11(a)(ii) hereof) held by each holder of Rights.

               (c) In any exchange pursuant to this Section 24, the Company, at
its option, may substitute Preferred Shares or common stock equivalents for
Common Shares exchangeable for Rights, at the initial rate of one one-thousandth
of a Preferred Share (or an appropriate number of common stock equivalents) for
each Common Share, as appropriately adjusted to reflect adjustments in the
voting rights of the Preferred Shares pursuant to the terms thereof, so that the
fraction of a Preferred Share delivered in lieu of each Common Share shall have
the same voting rights as one Common Share.

               (d) In the event that there shall not be sufficient Common
Shares, Preferred Shares or common stock equivalents

-55-

authorized by the Company's certificate of incorporation and not outstanding or
subscribed for, or reserved or otherwise committed for issuance for purposes
other than upon exercise of Rights, to permit any exchange of Rights as
contemplated in accordance with this Section 24, the Company shall take all such
action as may be necessary to authorize additional Common Shares, Preferred
Shares or common stock equivalents for issuance upon exchange of the Rights.

               (e) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of
Common Shares or to distribute certificates which evidence fractional Common
Shares. In lieu of such fractional Common Shares, the Company shall pay to the
registered holders of the Right Certificates with regard to which such
fractional Common Shares would otherwise be issuable an amount in cash equal to
the same fraction of the current per share market value of a whole Common Share.
For the purposes of this paragraph (e), the current per share market value of a
whole Common Share shall be the closing price of a Common Share (as determined
pursuant to the second sentence of Section 11(d)(i) hereof) for the Trading Day
immediately prior to the date of exchange pursuant to this Section 24.

          Section 25. Notice of Certain Events.

               (a) In case the Company shall after the Distribution Date propose
(i) to pay any dividend payable in stock of any class to the holders of its
Preferred Shares or to make any other distribution to the holders of its
Preferred Shares (other

-56-

than a regular quarterly cash dividend), (ii) to offer to the holders of its
Preferred Shares rights or warrants to subscribe for or to purchase any
additional Preferred Shares or shares of stock of any class or any other
securities, rights or options, (iii) to effect any reclassification of its
Preferred Shares (other than a reclassification involving only the subdivision
of outstanding Preferred Shares), (iv) to effect any consolidation or merger
into or with, or to effect any sale or other transfer (or to permit one or more
of its Subsidiaries to effect any sale or other transfer), in one or more
transactions, of 50% or more of the assets or earning power of the Company and
its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to, any other Person, (v) to effect the
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, or (vi) to declare or pay
any dividend on the Common Shares payable in Common Shares or to effect a
subdivision, combination or consolidation of the Common Shares (by
reclassification or otherwise than by payment of dividends in Common Shares),
then, in each such case, the Company shall give to each holder of a Right
Certificate, in accordance with Section 26 hereof, a notice of such proposed
action, which shall specify the record date for the purposes of such stock
dividend, or distribution of rights or warrants, or the date on which such
reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, liquidation,
dissolution, or winding up is to take place and the date of participation
therein by the holders of the Common Shares and/or Preferred Shares, if any such
date is to be fixed, and such notice shall be so given in the case of any action
covered by

-57-

clause (i) or (ii) above at least 10 days prior to the record date for
determining holders of the Preferred Shares for purposes of such action, and in
the case of any such other action, at least 10 days prior to the date of the
taking of such proposed action or the date of participation therein by the
holders of the Common Shares and/or Preferred Shares, whichever shall be the
earlier.

               (b) In case any event set forth in Section 11(a)(ii) hereof shall
occur, then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter give to each
holder of a Right Certificate, in accordance with Section 26 hereof, a notice of
the occurrence of such event, which notice shall describe such event and the
consequences of such event to holders of Rights under Section 11(a)(ii) hereof.

          Section 26. Notices. Notices or demands authorized by this Agreement
to be given or made by the Rights Agent or by the holder of any Right
Certificate to or on the Company shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed (until another address is filed in
writing with the Rights Agent) as follows:

                                       Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A.
                                       161 North Concord Exchange
                                       South St. Paul, Minnesota 55075

                                       Attention: Shareowner Services Department

Subject to the provisions of Section 21 hereof, any notice or demand authorized
by this Agreement to be given or made by the Company or by the holder of any
Right Certificate to or on the

-58-

Rights Agent shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, addressed (until another address is filed in writing with the
Company) as follows:

                                        General Growth Properties, Inc.
                                        110 North Wacker Drive
                                        Chicago, Illinois 60606

                                        Attention: Corporate Secretary

Notices or demands authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the
Company or the Rights Agent to the holder of any Right Certificate shall be
sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to such holder at the address of such holder as shown on the registry
books of the Company.

          Section 27. Supplements and Amendments. The Company may from time to
time, and the Rights Agent shall, if the Company so directs, supplement or amend
this Agreement without the approval of any holders of Right Certificates in
order to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision contained
herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provisions herein,
or to make any change to or delete any provision hereof or to adopt any other
provisions with respect to the Rights which the Company may deem necessary or
desirable; provided, however, that from and after such time as any Person
becomes an Acquiring Person, this Agreement shall not be amended or supplemented
in any manner which would adversely affect the interests of the holders of
Rights (other than an Acquiring Person and its Affiliates and Associates).

-59-

Any supplement or amendment authorized by this Section 27 will be evidenced by a
writing signed by the Company and the Rights Agent.

          Section 28. Successors. All the covenants and provisions of this
Agreement by or for the benefit of the Company or the Rights Agent shall bind
and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns hereunder.

          Section 29. Benefits of this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement
shall be construed to give to any person or entity other than the Company, the
Rights Agent and the registered holders of the Right Certificates (and, prior to
the Distribution Date, the Common Shares) any legal or equitable right, remedy
or claim under this Agreement; but this Agreement shall be for the sole and
exclusive benefit of the Company, the Rights Agent and the registered holders of
the Right Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, the Common Shares).

          Section 30. Severability. If any term, provision, covenant or
restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or
other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the
terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in
full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.

          Section 31. Governing Law. This Agreement and each Right Certificate
issued hereunder shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the
State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of

-60-

such State applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such
State.

          Section 32. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number
of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed
to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one
and the same instrument.

          Section 33. Descriptive Headings. Descriptive headings of the several
Sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not
control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.

          Section 34. Administration. The Board of Directors of the Company
shall have the exclusive power and authority to administer and interpret the
provisions of this Agreement and to exercise all rights and powers specifically
granted to the Board of Directors or the Company or as may be necessary or
advisable in the administration of this Agreement. All such actions,
calculations, determinations and interpretations which are done or made by the
Board of Directors in good faith shall be final, conclusive and binding on the
Company, the Rights Agent, the holders of the Rights and all other parties and
shall not subject the Board of Directors to any liability to the holders of the
Rights.

          Section 35. Limitations on Exercise or Exchange of Rights.

               (a) Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement or the
Rights to the contrary, in no event may a Right be

-61-

(i) exercised to purchase Preferred Shares, Common Shares or other securities or

(ii) exchanged for Common Shares or other securities if such exercise or
exchange would result in (x) any Person's ownership, taking into account both
direct ownership and ownership under the Attribution Rules, of any Preferred
Shares, Common Shares or other securities in excess of the Ownership Limit or
Existing Holder Limit, as applicable, or (y) the ownership, taking into account
both direct ownership and ownership under the Constructive Ownership Rules, by
any Person of Preferred Shares, Common Shares or other securities in excess of
the Ownership Limit or Existing Holder Limit, as applicable.

               (b) As a condition to the exercise or exchange of a Right, the
Company may require the exercising or exchanging Person (the "Exchanging
Person") to certify that (i) neither the Exchanging Person nor any other Person
who, under the Attribution Rules, would be treated as owning all or a portion of
the shares directly owned by the Exchanging Person, would own, taking into
account both direct ownership and ownership under the Attribution Rules, any
Preferred Shares, Common Shares or other securities in excess of the Ownership
Limit or Existing Holder Limit, as applicable, as a result of the exercise or
exchange of the Right if the Company were to deliver Preferred Shares, Common
Shares or other securities in respect of such exercise or exchange and (ii)
neither the Exchanging Person nor any other Person who, under the Constructive
Ownership Rules, would be treated as owning all or a portion of the shares
directly owned by the Exchanging Person,

-62-

would own, taking into account both direct ownership and ownership under the
Constructive Ownership Rules, any Preferred Shares, Common Shares or other
securities in excess of the Ownership Limit or Existing Holder Limit, as
applicable, as a result of the exercise or exchange of the Right if the Company
were to deliver Preferred Shares, Common Shares or other securities in respect
of such exercise or exchange. In the absence of such a certification the Company
shall be entitled conclusively to deem the limitation of Section 35 hereof to
apply in respect of the attempted exercise or exchange.

-63-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Rights
Agreement to be duly executed and their respective corporate seals to be
hereunder affixed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.

Attest:                                 GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

/s/ Marshall E. Eisenberg               By: /s/ Bernard Freibaum
- -------------------------------------       ------------------------------------
Marshall E. Eisenberg                       Bernard Freibaum
Secretary                                   Executive Vice President and
                                            Chief Financial Officer

Attest:                                 NORWEST BANK MINNESOTA, N.A.

/s/ Suzanne M. Swits                    By: /s/ Kenneth Swanson
- -------------------------------------       ------------------------------------
Suzanne M. Swits                            Kenneth Swanson
Assistant Vice President                    Vice President

Exhibit A

                                      FORM

                                       of

                           CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION

                                       of

                  SERIES A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK

                                       of

                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

                                   ----------

                         (Pursuant to Section 151 of the
                        Delaware General Corporation Law)

                                   ----------

          General Growth Properties, Inc., a corporation organized and existing
under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called
the "Company"), hereby certifies that the following resolution was adopted by
the Board of Directors of the Company as required by Section 151 of the General
Corporation Law at a meeting duly called and held on November 18, 1998:

          RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the
Board of Directors of this Company (hereinafter called the "Board of Directors"
or the "Board") in accordance with the provisions of the Second Amended Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended (the "Restated
Certificate of Incorporation"), the Board of Directors hereby creates a series
of Preferred Stock, par value $100.00 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), of the
Company and hereby states the designation and number of shares, and fixes the
relative rights, preferences, and limitations thereof as follows:

          Section 1. Designation and Amount. The shares of this series shall be
designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "Series A
Preferred Stock") and the number of shares constituting the Series A Preferred
Stock shall be 100,000. Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by
resolution of the Board of Directors; provided, that no decrease shall reduce
the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the
number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for
issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon
the conversion of any

A-1

outstanding securities issued by the Company convertible into Series A Preferred
Stock.

          Section 2. Dividends and Distributions.

               (A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any
series of Preferred Stock (or any other stock) ranking prior and superior to the
Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared
by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose,
quarterly dividends payable in cash on the last day of March, June, September
and December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a
"Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend
Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of
Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount (if any) per share (rounded to the
nearest cent), subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth,
equal to 1000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and
1000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash
dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of
Common Stock, par value $.10 per share (the "Common Stock"), of the Company or a
subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or
otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend
Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of
Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Company shall at any time declare or
pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or
effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares
of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend
in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common
Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the
preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction,
the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

               (B) The Company shall declare a dividend or distribution on the
Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section
immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock
(other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock).

               (C) Dividends due pursuant to paragraph (A) of this Section shall
begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred
Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue
of such shares,

A-2

unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the
first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares
shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date
of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date
for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled
to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date,
in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative
from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall
not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in
an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and
payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis
among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a
record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared
thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date
fixed for the payment thereof.

          Section 3. Voting Rights. The holders of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock shall have the following voting rights:

               (A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set
forth, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof
to 1000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the
Company. In the event the Company shall at any time declare or pay any dividend
on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision
or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common
Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each
such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted
by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number
of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the
denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to such event.

               (B) Except as otherwise provided the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, including any other Certificate of Designations creating a series
of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other
capital stock of the Company having general voting rights shall vote together as
one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Company.

               (C) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise required by law,
holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no

A-3

special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the
extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth
herein) for taking any corporate action.

          Section 4. Certain Restrictions.

               (A) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or
distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2
are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and
distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock
outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Company shall not:

                    (i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other
distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;

                    (ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other
distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A
Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock
and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in
proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then
entitled; or

                    (iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for
consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock,
provided that the Company may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire
shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the
Company ranking junior (as to dividends and upon dissolution, liquidation or
winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock.

               (B) The Company shall not permit any subsidiary of the Company to
purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the
Company unless the Company could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4,
purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.

          Section 5. Reacquired Shares. Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock
purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company in any manner whatsoever shall be
retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares
shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred
Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to
the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein or in the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, including any Certificate of Designations creating
a series of

A-4

Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or as otherwise required by law.

          Section 6. Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up. Upon any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company the holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per
share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to
1000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares
of Common Stock plus an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends. In the
event the Company shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common
Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination
or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification
or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a
greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the
aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were
entitled immediately prior to such event under the preceding sentence shall be
adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the
number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and
the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to such event.

          Section 7. Consolidation, Merger, etc. In case the Company shall enter
into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the
shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or
securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of
Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or
changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment
hereinafter set forth, equal to 1000 times the aggregate amount of stock,
securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may
be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged.
In the event the Company shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the
Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or
combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common
Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each
such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the
exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by
multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the
denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to such event.

          Section 8. Amendment. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall
not be amended in any manner, including in a merger or consolidation, which
would alter, change, or repeal the powers, preferences or special rights of the
Series A Preferred

A-5

Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders
of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock,
voting together as a single class.

          Section 9. Rank. The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect
to the payment of dividends and upon liquidation, dissolution and winding up,
junior to all series of Preferred Stock.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designation is executed on
behalf of the Company by its this ______ day of November, 1998.

                                        GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

By:
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                              ----------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                               ---------------------------------

A-6

Exhibit B

                            Form of Right Certificate

Certificate No. R-_____
______ Rights

     NOT EXERCISABLE AFTER NOVEMBER 18, 2008 OR EARLIER IF REDEMPTION OR
EXCHANGE OCCURS. THE RIGHTS ARE SUBJECT TO REDEMPTION AT $0.01 PER RIGHT AND TO
EXCHANGE ON THE TERMS SET FORTH IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT. UNDER CERTAIN
CIRCUMSTANCES, RIGHTS THAT ARE OR WERE ACQUIRED OR BENEFICIALLY OWNED BY AN
ACQUIRING PERSON OR ANY ASSOCIATES OR AFFILIATES THEREOF (AS SUCH TERMS ARE
DEFINED IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT) OR ANY SUBSEQUENT HOLDER OF SUCH RIGHTS MAY
BECOME NULL AND VOID. THE EXERCISABILITY OR EXCHANGEABILITY OF RIGHTS MAY BE
LIMITED AS A RESULT OF THE OWNERSHIP LIMITATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SECOND AMENDED
AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION OF GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC., AS
IT MAY BE AMENDED.

                                Right Certificate

                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

This certifies that _______________________, or registered assigns, is the
registered owner of the number of Rights set forth above, each of which entitles
the owner thereof, subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of the Rights
Agreement, dated as of November 18, 1998 (the "Rights Agreement"), between
General Growth Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and
Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. (the "Rights Agent"), to purchase from the Company
at any time after the Distribution Date (as such term is defined in the Rights
Agreement) and prior to 5:00 P.M., Chicago, Illinois time, on November 18, 2008,
at the principal office of the Rights Agent, or at the office of its successor
as Rights Agent, one one-thousandth of a fully paid non-assessable share of
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $100.00 per share (the
"Preferred Shares"), of the Company, at a purchase price of $148.00 per one
one-thousandth of a Preferred Share (the "Purchase Price"), upon presentation
and surrender of this Right Certificate with the certification and the Form of
Election to Purchase duly executed. The number of Rights evidenced

B-1

by this Right Certificate (and the number of one one-thousandths of a Preferred
Share which may be purchased upon exercise hereof) set forth above, and the
Purchase Price set forth above, are the number and Purchase Price as of December
10, 1998, based on the Preferred Shares as constituted at such date. As provided
in the Rights Agreement, the Purchase Price and the number of one
one-thousandths of a Preferred Share which may be purchased upon the exercise of
the Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate are subject to modification and
adjustment upon the happening of certain events.

          From and after the occurrence of an event described in Section
11(a)(ii) of the Rights Agreement, if the Rights evidenced by this Right
Certificate are or were at any time on or after the earlier of (x) the date of
such event and (y) the Distribution Date (as such term is defined in the Rights
Agreement) acquired or beneficially owned by an Acquiring Person or an Associate
or Affiliate of an Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined in the Rights
Agreement), such Rights shall become void, and any holder of such Rights shall
thereafter have no right to exercise such Rights.

          This Right Certificate is subject to all of the terms, provisions and
conditions of the Rights Agreement, which terms, provisions and conditions are
hereby incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof and to which
Rights Agreement reference is hereby made for a full description of the rights,
limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities hereunder of the
Rights Agent, the Company and the holders of the Right Certificates. Copies of
the Rights Agreement are on file at the principal executive offices of the
Company and the offices of the Rights Agent.

          This Right Certificate, with or without other Right Certificates, upon
surrender at the principal office of the Rights Agent, may be exchanged for
another Right Certificate or Right Certificates of like tenor and date
evidencing Rights entitling the holder to purchase a like aggregate number of
Preferred Shares as the Rights evidenced by the Right Certificate or Right
Certificates surrendered shall have entitled such holder to purchase. If this
Right Certificate shall be exercised in part, the holder shall be entitled to
receive upon surrender hereof another Right Certificate or Right Certificates
for the number of whole Rights not exercised.

          Subject to the provisions of the Rights Agreement, at the Company's
option, the Rights evidenced by this Certificate (i) may be redeemed by the
Company at a redemption price of $0.01 per Right or (ii) may be exchanged in
whole or in part for shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $.10 per
share, or Preferred Shares.

          No fractional Preferred Shares will be issued upon the exercise of any
Right or Rights evidenced hereby (other than fractions which are integral
multiples of one one-thousandth of a

B-2

Preferred Share, which may, at the election of the Company, be evidenced by
depositary receipts), but in lieu thereof a cash payment will be made, as
provided in the Rights Agreement.

          No holder of this Right Certificate shall be entitled to vote or
receive dividends or be deemed for any purpose the holder of the Preferred
Shares or of any other securities of the Company which may at any time be
issuable on the exercise hereof, nor shall anything contained in the Rights
Agreement or herein be construed to confer upon the holder hereof, as such, any
of the rights of a stockholder of the Company or any right to vote for the
election of directors or upon any matter submitted to stockholders at any
meeting thereof, or to give or withhold consent to any corporate action, or to
receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting stockholders (except as
provided in the Rights Agreement), or to receive dividends or subscription
rights, or otherwise, until the Right or Rights evidenced by this Right
Certificate shall have been exercised as provided in the Rights Agreement.

          This Right Certificate shall not be valid or obligatory for any
purpose until it shall have been countersigned by the Rights Agent.

          WITNESS the facsimile signature of the proper officers of the Company
and its corporate seal. Dated as of __________ __, _____

Attest:                                 GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

By:
                                            ------------------------------------

Countersigned:

NORWEST BANK MINNESOTA, N.A.

By:
    ------------------------------------
    Authorized Signature

B-3

Form of Reverse Side of Right Certificate

                               FORM OF ASSIGNMENT

         (To be executed by the registered holder if such holder desires
                       to transfer the Right Certificate.)

          FOR VALUE RECEIVED _______________________________________________
hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto _______________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
                 (Please print name and address of transferee)
this Right Certificate, together with all right, title and interest therein, and
does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint ___________________, Attorney, to
transfer the within Right Certificate on the books of the within-named Company,
with full power of substitution.

Dated: _____________ ___, _____

----------------------------------------
                                                        Signature

Signature Guaranteed:

          Signatures must be guaranteed by a member firm of a registered
national securities exchange, a member of the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc., or a commercial bank or trust company having an office or
correspondent in the United States.

                  The undersigned hereby certifies that the Rights evidenced by
this Right Certificate are not beneficially owned by an Acquiring Person or an
Affiliate or Associate thereof (as defined in the Rights Agreement).

----------------------------------------
                                                        Signature

B-4

Form of Reverse Side of Right Certificate -- continued

                          FORM OF ELECTION TO PURCHASE

                      (To be executed if holder desires to
                        exercise the Right Certificate.)

To: GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

          The undersigned hereby irrevocably elects to exercise ________________
Rights represented by this Right Certificate to purchase the Preferred Shares
issuable upon the exercise of such Rights and requests that certificates for
such Preferred Shares be issued in the name of:

Please insert social security or other identifying number

________________________________________________________________________________

                         (Please print name and address)

________________________________________________________________________________

If such number of Rights shall not be all the Rights evidenced by this Right
Certificate, a new Right Certificate for the balance remaining of such Rights
shall be registered in the name of and delivered to:

Please insert social security or other identifying number

________________________________________________________________________________

                         (Please print name and address)

________________________________________________________________________________

Dated: _____________ ___, _____

----------------------------------------
                                                        Signature

Signature Guaranteed:

          Signatures must be guaranteed by a member firm of a registered
national securities exchange, a member of the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc., or a commercial bank or

B-5

trust company having an office or correspondent in the United States.

          The undersigned hereby certifies that (i) the Rights evidenced by this
Right Certificate are not Beneficially Owned by an Acquiring Person or an
Affiliate or Associate thereof (as defined in the Rights Agreement) and (ii) if
Preferred Shares, Common Shares or other securities are issued in respect of
this exercise, (x) neither the Person effecting this exercise (the "Exchanging
Person") nor any Person who, under the Attribution Rules (as defined in the
Rights Agreement), would be treated as owning all or a portion of the shares
directly owned by the Exchanging Person, will own, as a result of the exercise,
taking into account both direct ownership and ownership under the Attribution
Rules, any Preferred Shares, Common Shares or other securities in excess of the
Ownership Limit (as defined in the Rights Agreement) or the Existing Holder
Limit (as defined therein), as applicable, and (y) neither the Exchanging Person
nor any Person who, under the Constructive Ownership Rules (as defined in the
Rights Agreement), would be treated as owning all or a portion of the shares
directly owned by the Exchanging Person will own, as a result of the exercise,
taking into account both direct ownership and ownership under the Constructive
Ownership Rules, any Preferred Shares, Common Shares or other securities in
excess of the Ownership Limit or the Existing Holder Limit, as applicable.

----------------------------------------
                                                        Signature

                                     NOTICE

          The signature in the foregoing Forms of Assignment and Election must
conform to the name as written upon the face of this Right Certificate in every
particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.

          In the event the certification set forth above in the Form of
Assignment or the Form of Election to Purchase, as the case may be, is not
completed, the Company and the Rights Agent will deem the beneficial owner of
the Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate to be an Acquiring Person or an
Affiliate or Associate thereof (as defined in the Rights Agreement) and such
Assignment or Election to Purchase will not be honored.

B-6

Exhibit C

                          SUMMARY OF RIGHTS TO PURCHASE
                                PREFERRED SHARES

          On November 18, 1998, the Board of Directors of General Growth
Properties, Inc. (the "Company") declared a dividend of one preferred share
purchase right (a "Right") for each outstanding share of common stock, par value
$.10 per share (the "Common Shares") outstanding on December 10, 1998 (the
"Record Date") to the stockholders of record on that date. Each Right entitles
the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share
of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $100.00 per share
(the "Preferred Shares"), of the Company, at a price of $148.00 per one
one-thousandth of a Preferred Share (the "Purchase Price"), subject to
adjustment. The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in a Rights
Agreement (the "Rights Agreement") between the Company and Norwest Bank
Minnesota, N.A., as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent").

          Until the earlier to occur of (i) 10 days following a public
announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons (an
"Acquiring Person") has acquired beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the
outstanding Common Shares or, in the case of the Grandfathered Stockholders
referred to in the Rights Agreement, beneficial ownership of a percentage of
outstanding Common Shares in excess of the applicable Grandfathered Limit
referred to therein, or (ii) 10 business days (or such later date as may be
determined by action of the Board of Directors prior to such time as any Person
becomes an Acquiring Person) following the commencement of, or announcement of
an intention to make, a tender offer or exchange offer the consummation of which
would result in the beneficial ownership by a person or group of 15% or more of
such outstanding Common Shares or, in the case of the Grandfathered
Stockholders, beneficial ownership of a percentage of outstanding Common Shares
in excess of the applicable Grandfathered Limit (the earlier of such dates being
called the "Distribution Date"), the Rights will be evidenced, with respect to
any of the Common Share certificates outstanding as of the Record Date, by such
Common Share certificate with a copy of this Summary of Rights attached thereto.

          The Rights Agreement provides that, until the Distribution Date, the
Rights will be transferred with and only with the Common Shares. Until the
Distribution Date (or earlier redemption or expiration of the Rights), new
Common Share certificates issued after the Record Date or upon transfer or new
issuance of Common Shares will contain a notation incorporating the Rights
Agreement by reference. Until the Distribution Date (or earlier redemption or
expiration of the Rights), the surrender for

C-1

transfer of any certificates for Common Shares outstanding as of the Record
Date, even without such notation or a copy of this Summary of Rights being
attached thereto, will also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated
with the Common Shares represented by such certificate. As soon as practicable
following the Distribution Date, separate certificates evidencing the Rights
("Right Certificates") will be mailed to holders of record of the Common Shares
as of the Close of Business on the Distribution Date and such separate Right
Certificates alone will evidence the Rights.

          The Rights are not exercisable until the Distribution Date. The Rights
will expire on November 18, 2008 (the "Final Expiration Date"), unless the Final
Expiration Date is extended or unless the Rights are earlier redeemed by the
Company, in each case, as described below.

          The Purchase Price payable, and the number of Preferred Shares or
other securities or property issuable, upon exercise of the Rights are subject
to adjustment from time to time to prevent dilution (i) in the event of a stock
dividend on, or a subdivision, combination or reclassification of, the Preferred
Shares, (ii) upon the grant to holders of the Preferred Shares of certain rights
or warrants to subscribe for or purchase Preferred Shares at a price, or
securities convertible into Preferred Shares with a conversion price, less than
the then current market price of the Preferred Shares or (iii) upon the
distribution to holders of the Preferred Shares of evidences of indebtedness or
assets (excluding regular periodic cash dividends paid out of earnings or
retained earnings or dividends payable in Preferred Shares) or of subscription
rights or warrants (other than those referred to above).

          The number of outstanding Rights and the number of one one-thousandths
of a Preferred Share issuable upon exercise of each Right are also subject to
adjustment in the event of a stock split of the Common Shares or a stock
dividend on the Common Shares payable in Common Shares or subdivisions,
consolidations or combinations of the Common Shares occurring, in any such case,
prior to the Distribution Date.

          Preferred Shares purchasable upon exercise of the Rights will not be
redeemable. Each Preferred Share will be entitled to a quarterly dividend
payment of 1000 times the dividend declared per Common Share. In the event of
liquidation, the holders of the Preferred Shares will be entitled to an
aggregate payment of 1000 times the aggregate payment made per Common Share.
Each Preferred Share will have 1000 votes, voting together with the Common
Shares. In the event of any merger, consolidation or other transaction in which
Common Shares are exchanged, each Preferred Share will be entitled to receive
1000 times the amount received per Common Share. These rights are protected by
customary antidilution provisions.

C-2

Because of the nature of the Preferred Shares' dividend, liquidation
and voting rights, the value of the one one-thousandth interest in a Preferred
Share purchasable upon exercise of each Right should approximate the value of
one Common Share.

          From and after the occurrence of an event described in Section
11(a)(ii) of the Rights Agreement, if the Rights evidenced by this Right
Certificate are or were at any time on or after the earlier of (x) the date of
such event and (y) the Distribution Date (as such term is defined in the Rights
Agreement) acquired or beneficially owned by an Acquiring Person or an Associate
or Affiliate of an Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined in the Rights
Agreement), such Rights shall become void, and any holder of such Rights shall
thereafter have no right to exercise such Rights.

          In the event that, at any time after a Person becomes an Acquiring
Person, the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination
transaction or 50% or more of its consolidated assets or earning power are sold,
proper provision will be made so that each holder of a Right will thereafter
have the right to receive, upon the exercise thereof at the then current
exercise price of the Right, that number of shares of common stock of the
acquiring company which at the time of such transaction will have a market value
of two times the exercise price of the Right. In the event that any person
becomes an Acquiring Person, proper provision shall be made so that each holder
of a Right, other than Rights beneficially owned by the Acquiring Person and its
Affiliates and Associates (which will thereafter be void), will thereafter have
the right to receive upon exercise that number of Common Shares having a market
value of two times the exercise price of the Right. If the Company does not have
sufficient Common Shares to satisfy such obligation to issue Common Shares, or
if the Board of Directors so elects, the Company shall deliver upon payment of
the exercise price of a Right an amount of cash or securities equivalent in
value to the Common Shares issuable upon exercise of a Right; provided that, if
the Company fails to meet such obligation within 30 days following the later of
(x) the first occurrence of an event triggering the right to purchase Common
Shares and (y) the date on which the Company's right to redeem the Rights
expires, the Company must deliver, upon exercise of a Right but without
requiring payment of the exercise price then in effect, Common Shares (to the
extent available) and cash equal in value to the difference between the value of
the Common Shares otherwise issuable upon the exercise of a Right and the
exercise price then in effect. The Board of Directors may extend the 30-day
period described above for up to an additional 60 days to permit the taking of
action that may be necessary to authorize sufficient additional Common Shares to
permit the issuance of Common Shares upon the exercise in full of the Rights.

C-3

At any time after any Person becomes an Acquiring Person and prior to
the acquisition by any person or group of a majority of the outstanding Common
Shares, the Board of Directors of the Company may exchange the Rights (other
than Rights owned by such person or group which have become void), in whole or
in part, at an exchange ratio of one Common Share per Right (subject to
adjustment).

          With certain exceptions, no adjustment in the Purchase Price will be
required until cumulative adjustments require an adjustment of at least 1% in
such Purchase Price. No fractional Preferred Shares will be issued (other than
fractions which are integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a Preferred
Share, which may, at the election of the Company, be evidenced by depositary
receipts) and in lieu thereof, an adjustment in cash will be made based on the
market price of the Preferred Shares on the last trading day prior to the date
of exercise.

          At any time prior to the time any Person becomes an Acquiring Person,
the Board of Directors of the Company may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in
part, at a price of $0.01 per Right (the "Redemption Price"). The redemption of
the Rights may be made effective at such time, on such basis and with such
conditions as the Board of Directors in its sole discretion may establish.
Immediately upon any redemption of the Rights, the right to exercise the Rights
will terminate and the only right of the holders of Rights will be to receive
the Redemption Price.

          The terms of the Rights may be amended by the Board of Directors of
the Company without the consent of the holders of the Rights, except that from
and after such time as any person becomes an Acquiring Person no such amendment
may adversely affect the interests of the holders of the Rights (other than the
Acquiring Person and its Affiliates and Associates).

          Until a Right is exercised, the holder thereof, as such, will have no
rights as a stockholder of the Company, including, without limitation, the right
to vote or to receive dividends.

          The exercisability or exchangeability of the Rights may be limited as
a result of the ownership limitations set forth in the Company's Second Amended
and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as it may be amended.

          A copy of the Agreement has been filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission as an Exhibit to a Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated
November 18, 1998. A copy of the Agreement is available free of charge from the
Company. This summary description of the Rights does not purport to be complete
and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement, which is hereby
incorporated herein by reference.

C-4

</EX-4.19>

<EX-4.20>
 15
 c02442exv4w20.txt
 AMENDMENT TO RIGHTS AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 4.20

                       FIRST AMENDMENT TO RIGHTS AGREEMENT

          AMENDMENT (this "Amendment"), dated as of November 10, 1999, between
General Growth Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and
Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. (the "Rights Agent").

                                   WITNESSETH:

          WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent entered into the Rights
Agreement, dated as of November 18, 1998 (the "Rights Agreement");

          WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, the Company
may from time to time supplement or amend the Rights Agreement in accordance
with the provisions of such Section; and

          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has determined that it
is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders that the Rights
Agreement be amended as provided herein prior to the Company entering into the
Homart II Agreement (as defined below).

          NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual
agreements herein set forth, the parties hereby agree as follows:

          Section 1. Definitions. Capitalized terms used herein without
definition shall have the meanings specified in the Rights Agreement.

          Section 2. Amendments.

          2.1 Section 1 of the Rights Agreement shall be amended as follows:

          (a) The definition of "Acquiring Person" shall be amended by inserting
a new clause in line 22 of such definition before the phrase "plus 1%", which
new clause shall read in its entirety as follows:

          and upon the sale of all of the Class B Units of GGP/Homart II L.L.C.,
a Delaware limited liability company, Beneficially Owned by such Homart Holder
in exchange for Common Shares pursuant to the terms of, and subject to the
restrictions contained in, the Operating Agreement of GGP/Homart II L.L.C., as
the same may be amended from time to time (the "Homart II Agreement"), to be
entered into by and among GGP/Homart II L.L.C., GGP Limited Partnership, a
Delaware limited partnership

(the "Partnership"), and the other parties to be listed on the signature pages
thereof,"

          (b) The definition of "Acquiring Person" shall be further amended by
inserting a new sentence in line 28 before the word "Notwithstanding", which
sentence shall read in its entirety as follows:

          For purposes of this Agreement, a Homart Holder will at all times be
deemed to Beneficially Own the Common Shares issuable upon: the exchange of all
of the shares of Class B Common Stock of GGP/Homart, Inc. Beneficially Owned by
such Homart Holder for Common Shares pursuant to the Homart Agreement and the
sale of all of the Class B Units of GGP/Homart II L.L.C. Beneficially Owned by
such Homart Holder in exchange for Common Shares pursuant to the Homart II
Agreement.

          (c) The definition of "Grandfathered Stockholders" shall be amended by
deleting clause (ii) thereof and inserting a new clause (ii) which shall read in
its entirety as follows: "(ii) the Comptroller of the State of New York as
Trustee of the Common Retirement Fund and the Affiliates and Associates of such
Trustee or Fund (each, a "Homart Holder")."

          2.2 Section 3 of the Rights Agreement shall be amended by adding a
subparagraph (d) thereto which shall read in its entirety as follows:

          (d) On the Distribution Date, proper provision shall be made by the
Company in order to provide holders ("Unitholders"), other than the Company, of
partnership units ("Units") of the Partnership, with such number of Rights,
represented by Right Certificates, as would have been issued to such Unitholders
upon receipt of Common Shares if such Unitholder's Units had been redeemed
immediately prior to such Distribution Date and the purchase price therefor had
been paid in the form of Common Shares pursuant to the terms and conditions of
Redemption Rights Agreements or similar agreements among the Unitholders (or
transferor Unitholders), the Company and/or the Partnership relating, inter
alia, to the redemption or exchange of Units, and such Unitholders shall
thereafter have all of the rights, privileges, benefits and obligations with
respect to such Rights as are

2

provided for herein with respect to holders of Common Shares.

          Section 3. Governing Law. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a
contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall
be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of such State applicable
to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such State.

          Section 4. Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in any number
of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed
to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one
and the same instrument.

          Section 5. Ratification. Except as expressly provided herein, this
Amendment shall not by implication or otherwise alter, modify, amend or in any
way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements
contained in the Rights Agreement, all of which are ratified and confirmed in
all respects and shall continue in full force and effect.

3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to
be duly executed and their respective corporate seals to be hereunder affixed
and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.

Attest:                                 GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

/s/ Marshall E. Eisenberg               By: /s/ Bernard Freibaum
- -------------------------------------       ------------------------------------
Name: Marshall E. Eisenberg             Name: Bernard Freibaum
Title: Secretary                        Title: Executive Vice President

Attest:                                 NORWEST BANK MINNESOTA, N.A.

/s/ Karri L. VanDell                    By: /s/ Kenneth P. Swanson
- -------------------------------------       ------------------------------------
Name: Karri L. VanDell                  Name: Kenneth P. Swanson
Title: Assistant Vice President         Title: Vice President

4

</EX-4.20>

<EX-4.22>
 16
 c02442exv4w22.txt
 LETTER AGREEMENT CONCERNING RIGHTS AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 4.22

                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.
                             GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
                             110 North Wacker Drive
                             Chicago, Illinois 60606

                                November 10, 1999

Comptroller of the State of New
York as Trustee of the Common
Retirement Fund
633 Third Avenue
31st Floor
New York, New York 10017-6754

                    Agreement Concerning Shareholder Rights Plan

Dear Sir/Madam:

          Reference is made to the following:

                    1. that certain Stockholders Agreement dated as of December
20, 1995, among GGP/Homart, Inc. ("GGP/Homart"), Comptroller of the State of New
York as Trustee of the Common Retirement Fund ("NYSCRF"), GGP Limited
Partnership ("GGPLP"), General Growth Properties, Inc., ("GGPI") and certain
others (as the same has been and may be further amended from time to time, the
"Stockholders Agreement"), pursuant to which, among other things, (a) GGP/Homart
issued to NYSCRF shares of Class B Common Stock, $.01 par value, of GGP/Homart
(together with any shares of Class C Common Stock of GGP/Homart received on
conversion of such shares of Class B Common Stock, the "GGP/Homart Shares"), (b)
NYSCRF has the right (the "Exchange Right") to exchange all or any portion of
the GGP/Homart Shares for an amount determined as provided therein (the
"Exchange Amount") and otherwise upon the terms and subject to the conditions
contained therein and (c) GGPI has the option to pay the Exchange Amount in cash
and/or by delivery of shares of its common stock, $.10 par value ("GGPI
Shares"), upon the terms and subject to the conditions contained therein;

                    2. that certain Operating Agreement dated as of the date
hereof, among GGP/Homart II L.L.C. ("GGP/Homart II"), NYSCRF and GGPLP (as the
same may be amended from time to time, the "Operating Agreement"), pursuant to
which, among other things, (a) GGP/Homart II issued to NYSCRF Class B units of
membership interest (the "GGP/Homart Units" and, together with the GGP/Homart
Shares, the "Venture Securities"), (b) NYSCRF has the right (the "Put Right"
and, together

with the Exchange Right, the "Rights") to require GGPLP to purchase
all or a portion of the GGP/Homart Units for an amount determined as provided
therein (the "Put Purchase Price") and otherwise upon the terms and subject to
the conditions contained therein and (c) GGPI has the option to purchase all or
a portion of the GGP/Homart Units and pay the Put Purchase Price by delivery of
GGPI Shares, upon the terms and subject to the conditions contained therein (the
GGPI Shares that are issued from time to time in connection with an exercise of
Rights, the "GGPI Rights Shares");

                    3. that certain Rights Agreement dated as of November 18,
1998, between GGPI and Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., as amended by that certain
Amendment to Rights Agreement dated the date hereof (as the same may be further
amended from time to time, the "Rights Agreement"); and

                    4. that certain letter agreement dated the date hereof,
between NYRSCF and GGPLP, specifying certain Persons whose principal business is
deemed to be the development or management of regional shopping malls (as the
same may be amended from time to time, the "Deemed Competitor Letter").

Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings set
forth in the Rights Agreement.

          1. Matters Relating to Transfer of GGPI Shares.

          (a) Within 30 days following the receipt by GGPI of written notice of
a proposed sale, conveyance, exchange or other transfer ("Transfer") of all or
any portion of the GGPI Rights Shares, GGPI shall amend the Rights Agreement, if
necessary, to permit the proposed transferee (the "Transferee"), together with
its Affiliates and Associates, to Beneficially Own up to the number of GGPI
Shares described in the last sentence of this Section 1(a) without the
Transferee becoming an Acquiring Person under the Rights Agreement. Any such
notice shall disclose the identity of the Transferor and proposed Transferee and
contain a certification by the proposed Transferee of the number of GGPI Shares
then Beneficially Owned by the proposed Transferee and its Affiliates and
Associates. The number of GGPI Shares that the Transferee, together with its
Affiliates and Associates, may Beneficially Own for purposes of the first
sentence of this Section 1(a) is equal to the sum of (i) the number of GGPI
Rights Shares, if any, previously Transferred to such Transferee in accordance
with this agreement, (ii) the number of GGPI Rights Shares then proposed to be
Transferred to such Transferee pursuant to this agreement and (iii) 1% of the
number of GGPI Shares then issued and outstanding.

2

(b) Prior to any Transfer in connection with which the Rights
Agreement has been amended as provided in Section 1(a) hereof, the proposed
Transferee shall sign and deliver to GGPI and GGPLP (i) a standstill agreement
in the form of Exhibit A, attached hereto and by this reference made a part
hereof (a "Standstill Agreement"), and dated the date of the Transfer and (ii)
an instrument in form reasonably satisfactory to GGPI and GGPLP, pursuant to
which the Transferee agrees to be bound by the terms of this agreement (and upon
execution and delivery of such instrument by the Transferee, the Transferee
shall be entitled to the benefits of a holder of GGPI Rights Shares under this
agreement). If such Transferee has previously signed and delivered to GGPI and
GGPLP a Standstill Agreement, it shall deliver a new Standstill Agreement at
such time.

          (c) Neither NYSCRF nor any Transferee which is bound by the terms of
this agreement may Transfer any GGPI Shares (including the GGPI Rights Shares or
any portion thereof) to any Person described in Section 8.5(b) of the Operating
Agreement (as supplemented by the Deemed Competitor Letter) without the written
consent of GGPI (which consent may be withheld in the sole and absolute
discretion of GGPI), and any Transfer of GGPI Shares in violation of such
restriction shall be null and void.

          2. Matters Relating to Exercise of Rights and Transfer of Venture
Securities.

          (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
Operating Agreement and the Stockholders Agreement and upon an exercise of
Rights by any holder of Venture Securities (other than NYSCRF), GGPI may pay the
applicable Exchange Amount or the Put Purchase Price by issuing GGPI Rights
Shares but only to the extent that (i) the issuance of GGPI Rights Shares to
such holder would not cause such holder to become an Acquiring Person under the
Rights Agreement or (ii) GGPI has amended the Rights Agreement (which it may do
or decline to do in its sole and absolute discretion) to permit such holder,
together with its Affiliates and Associates, to Beneficially Own up to the
number of GGPI Shares described in the third sentence of this Section without
such holder becoming an Acquiring Person under the Rights Agreement.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Operating Agreement
and the Stockholders Agreement, GGPLP and/or GGPI may defer the closing of a
cash purchase and sale of Venture Securities pursuant to an exercise of the
Rights for an additional 150 days in the case of an exercise of the Exchange
Right and an additional 90 days in the case of an exercise of the Put Right. The
number of GGPI Shares which any holder, together with its Affiliates and
Associates, may Beneficially Own for purposes of clause (ii) above shall be
equal to the sum of (A) the number of GGPI Rights Shares proposed to be issued
by GGPI in connection with an exercise of Rights and (B) the lesser of: (I) the
number of GGPI Shares that were Beneficially Owned by such holder, together with
its

3

Affiliates and Associates, on the date of the first acquisition of Venture
Securities by such holder or any of its Affiliates or Associates and (II) the
number of GGPI Shares that are Beneficially Owned by the holder and its
Affiliates and Associates at the time of such exercise of Rights. Upon exercise
of Rights by a holder of Venture Securities, such holder shall deliver to GGPI
and GGPLP a certification of the number of GGPI Shares referred to in clauses
(B)(I) and (B)(II) above.

          (b) In the event that the holder of any Venture Securities (other than
NYSCRF) exercises Rights, GGPI pays all or a portion of the applicable Put
Purchase Price and/or Exchange Amount by delivering GGPI Rights Shares and the
Rights Agreement is amended as provided in Section 2(a) hereof, the holder shall
sign and deliver to GGPLP and GGPI a Standstill Agreement dated the date the
GGPI Rights Shares are issued. If such holder has previously signed and
delivered to GGPI and GGPLP a Standstill Agreement, it shall deliver a new
Standstill Agreement at such time.

          (c) Prior to any Transfer of Venture Securities, the proposed
Transferee shall sign and deliver to GGPI and GGPLP an instrument in form
reasonably satisfactory to GGPI and GGPLP, pursuant to which the Transferee
agrees to be bound by the terms of this agreement (and upon execution and
delivery of such instrument by the Transferee, the Transferee shall be entitled
to the benefits of a holder of Venture Securities under this agreement), and any
Transfer of Venture Securities in violation of such restriction shall be null
and void.

          3. Matters Relating to Amendment of Rights Agreement. GGPI shall not
(a) amend clause (ii) of the definition of "Acquiring Person" contained in the
Rights Agreement (as in effect on the date hereof) so as to materially and
adversely affect NYSCRF without NYSCRF's consent, (b) further amend the Rights
Agreement (as in effect on the date hereof) in any manner which is inconsistent
with the terms of this agreement or (c) enter into any other agreement which is
inconsistent with the terms of this agreement.

          4. Matters Relating to Beneficial Ownerships of GGPI Rights Shares.
For purposes of the Rights Agreement and/or this agreement and notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained therein or herein, a holder of Venture
Securities (other than NYSCRF and its Affiliates and Associates) shall not be
deemed to Beneficially Own the GGPI Shares issuable to it upon the exchange or
sale of the Venture Securities Beneficially Owned by it solely by virtue of its
ownership of such Venture Securities.

          5. No Other Changes; Etc. Except as expressly set forth herein, the
Stockholders Agreement and Operating Agreement shall remain in full force and
effect. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed a waiver of the provisions of
GGPI's Certificate of Incorporation, as amended. Any references to the
Stockholders

4

Agreement in the Stockholders Agreement or elsewhere (except herein unless
otherwise specified) shall be deemed to mean the Stockholders Agreement, as
amended hereby, and any references to the Operating Agreement in the Operating
Agreement or elsewhere (except herein unless otherwise specified) shall be
deemed to mean the Operating Agreement, as amended hereby. Neither NYSCRF nor
any Transferees shall enter into any transaction or take any other action for
the purpose of directly or indirectly avoiding the restrictions contained in
this agreement. The parties agree that the restrictions herein are reasonable
and the result of arm's-length negotiations.

          6. Counterparts. This agreement may be executed in one or more
counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall
constitute one document.

          7. Governing Law. The interpretation and performance of this agreement
shall be governed under the laws of the State of Delaware (without regard to its
conflict of laws rules).

          8. Successors and Assigns. The terms of this agreement shall be
binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective
successors and assigns.

5

Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by signing and
returning the enclosed counterpart of this letter to the undersigned.

                                        Very truly yours,

                                        GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware
                                        limited partnership

                                        By: GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC., a
                                            Delaware corporation,
                                            its general partner

By: /s/ JOEL BAYER
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Joel Bayer
                                        Title: Senior Vice President

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES,INC., a
                                        Delaware corporation

By: /s/ JOEL BAYER
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Joel Bayer
                                        Title: Senior Vice President

Accepted and agreed to as
of the date first above written

COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK AS TRUSTEE OF THE
COMMON RETIREMENT FUND

By: /s/ JOHN E. HULL
    ---------------------------------
Name: John E. Hull
Title: Deputy Comptroller

6

The undersigned, GGP/Homart, Inc. and GGP/Homart II L.L.C., do hereby
accept and agree to the foregoing to the extent that the foregoing constitutes
an amendment to the Stockholders Agreement and the Operating Agreement,
respectively.

                                        GGP/HOMART, INC., a Delaware
                                        corporation

By: /s/ JOEL BAYER
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Joel Bayer
                                        Title: Senior Vice President

GGP/HOMART II L.L.C., a Delaware
                                        limited liability company

By: /s/ JOEL BAYER
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Joel Bayer
                                        Title: Senior Vice President

7

</EX-4.22>

<EX-10.1>
 17
 c02442exv10w1.txt
 AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP OF THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP

Exhibit 10.1

                           SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED
                        AGREEMENT OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
                                       OF
                             GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

                           SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED
                        AGREEMENT OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
                                       OF
                             GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

     THIS SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP is made
and entered into this 1st day of April, 1998, by and among the undersigned
parties.

                                   WITNESSETH:

     WHEREAS, a Delaware limited partnership known as GGP Limited Partnership
(the "Partnership") exists pursuant to that certain Amended and Restated
Agreement of Limited Partnership dated as of July 27, 1993, as amended by that
certain First Amendment thereto dated May 23, 1995, that certain Second
Amendment thereto dated July 13, 1995, that certain Third

Amendment thereto dated as of May 21, 1996, that certain Fourth Amendment
thereto dated as of August 30, 1996, that certain Fifth Amendment thereto dated
as of October 4, 1996, that certain Sixth Amendment thereto dated as of November
27, 1996, that certain Seventh Amendment thereto dated as of December 6, 1996,
that certain Eighth Amendment dated June 19, 1997, that certain Ninth Amendment
dated August 8, 1997, that certain Tenth Amendment dated as of September 8,
1997, that certain Eleventh Amendment dated as of September 11, 1997, that
certain Twelfth Amendment thereto dated October 15, 1997, that certain
Thirteenth Amendment thereto dated October 23, 1997 and that certain Fourteenth
Amendment thereto dated October 29, 1997 (collectively, the "Initial Partnership
Agreement"), and the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act;

     WHEREAS, the parties hereto, being the general partner and a majority in
interest of the limited partners of the Partnership desire to amend and restate
the Initial Partnership Agreement as set forth herein.

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements
herein contained and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt,
adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto,
intending legally to be bound, do hereby amend and restate the Initial
Partnership Agreement to read as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I

                                Definitions; Etc.

     Definitions. Except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the following
terms and phrases shall have the meanings set forth below:

     "Accountants" shall mean the firm or firms of independent certified public
accountants selected by the General Partner on behalf of the Partnership and the
Property Partnerships to audit the books and records of the Partnership and the
Property Partnerships and to prepare statements and reports in connection
therewith.

     "Acquisition Cost" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1 hereof.

     "Acquisition Project" shall mean Shopping Center Projects other than
Development Projects (other than Shopping Center Projects located on the
properties listed in Exhibit B).

     "Act" shall mean the Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act as enacted in
the State of Delaware, and as the same may hereafter be amended from time to
time.

     "Additional Units" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.3 hereof.

     "Additional Partner" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.3
hereof.

     "Adjusted Capital Account Deficit" shall mean, with respect to any Limited
Partner, the deficit balance, if any, in such Partner's Capital Account as of
the end of any relevant fiscal year and after giving effect to the following
adjustments:

     credit to such Capital Account any amounts which such Partner is obligated
or treated as obligated to restore with respect to any deficit balance in such
Capital Account pursuant to Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(c) of the Regulations, or
is deemed to be obligated to restore with respect to any deficit balance
pursuant to the penultimate sentences of Sections 1.704-2(g)(1) and
1.704-2(i)(5) of the Regulations; and

     debit to such Capital Account the items described in Sections
1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5) and (6) of the Regulations.

The foregoing definition of Adjusted Capital Account Deficit is intended to
comply with the requirements of the alternate test for economic effect contained
in Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) of the Regulations and shall be interpreted
consistently therewith.

     "Adjustment Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(a)
hereof.

     "Administrative Expenses" shall mean (i) all administrative and operating
costs and expenses incurred by the Partnership, (ii) all administrative,
operating and other costs and expenses incurred by the Property Partnerships,
which expenses are being assumed by the Partnership pursuant to Section 6.1
hereof, (iii) those administrative costs and expenses of the General Partner,
including salaries paid to officers of the General Partner and accounting and
legal expenses undertaken by the General Partner on behalf or for the benefit of
the Partnership, and (iv) to the extent not included in clause (iii) above, REIT
Expenses.

     "Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any Partner (or as to any other
Person the affiliates of whom are relevant for purposes of any of the provisions
of this Agreement), (i) any member of the Immediate Family of such Partner; (ii)
any trustee or beneficiary of a Partner; (iii) any legal representative,
successor, or assignee of such Partner or any Person referred to in the
preceding clauses (i) and (ii); (iv) any trustee of any trust for the benefit of
such Partner or any Person referred to in the preceding clauses (i) through
(iii); or (v) any Entity which directly or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common Control with,
such Partner or any Person referred to in the preceding clauses (i) through
(iv).

     "Agreement" shall mean this Second Amended and Restated Agreement of
Limited Partnership, as originally executed and as amended, modified,
supplemented or restated from time to time, as the context requires.

     "Audited Financial Statements" shall mean financial statements (balance
sheet, statement of income, statement of partners' equity and statement of cash
flows) prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
accompanied by an independent auditor's report containing (i) an opinion
containing no material qualification and (ii) no explanatory paragraph
disclosing information relating to material uncertainties (except as to
litigation) or going concern issues.

     "Bankruptcy" shall mean, with respect to any Partner or the Partnership,
(i) the commencement by such Partner or the Partnership of any proceeding
seeking relief under any provision or chapter of the federal Bankruptcy Code or
any other federal or state law relating to insolvency, bankruptcy or
reorganization, (ii) an adjudication that such Partner or the Partnership is
insolvent or bankrupt; (iii) the entry of an order for relief under the federal
Bankruptcy Code with respect to such Partner or the Partnership, (iv) the filing
of any such petition or the commencement of any such case or proceeding against
such Partner or the Partnership, unless such petition and the case or proceeding
initiated thereby are dismissed within ninety (90) days from the date of such
filing, (v) the filing of an answer by such Partner or the Partnership admitting
the allegations of any such petition, (vi) the appointment of a trustee,
receiver of custodian for all or substantially all of the assets of such Partner
or the Partnership unless such appointment is vacated or dismissed within ninety
(90) days from the date of such appointment but not less than five (5) days
before the proposed sale of any assets of such Partner or the Partnership, (vii)
the insolvency of such Partner or the Partnership or the execution by such
Partner or the Partnership of a general assignment for the benefit of creditors,
(viii) the convening by such Partner or the Partnership of a meeting of its
creditors, or any class thereof, for purposes of effecting a moratorium upon or
extension or composition of its debts, (ix) the

failure of such Partner or the Partnership to pay its debts as they mature, (x)
the levy, attachment, execution or other seizure of substantially all of the
assets of such Partner or the Partnership where such seizure is not discharged
within thirty (30) days thereafter, or (xi) the admission by such Partner or the
Partnership in writing of its inability to pay its debts as they mature or that
it is generally not paying its debts as they become due.

     "Bucksbaum Limited Partners" shall mean M.B. Capital Partners III and its
successors and assigns.

     "Bucksbaum Rights Agreement" shall mean that certain Rights Agreement dated
as of July 27, 1993, among the General Partner and certain predecessors of the
Bucksbaum Limited Partners.

     "Capital Account" shall mean, with respect to any Partner, the separate
"book" account which the Partnership shall establish and maintain for such
Partner in accordance with Section 704(b) of the Code and Section
1.704-1(b)(2)(iv) of the Regulations and such other provisions of Section
1.704-1(b) of the Regulations that must be complied with in order for the
Capital Accounts to be determined in accordance with the provisions of said
Regulations. In furtherance of the foregoing, the Capital Accounts shall be
maintained in compliance with Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv) of the Regulations; and
the provisions hereof shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent
therewith. In the event that any Units are transferred in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement, the Capital Account, at the time of the transfer, of
the transferor attributable to the transferred Units shall carry over to the
transferee.

     "Capital Contribution" shall mean, with respect to any Partner, the amount
of money and the initial Gross Asset Value of any property other than money
contributed to the Partnership with respect to the Units held by such Partner
(net of liabilities to which such property is subject).

     "Certificate" shall mean the Certificate of Limited Partnership
establishing the Partnership, as filed with the office of the Delaware Secretary
of State, as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement and the Act.

     "Charter" shall mean the corporate charter of the General Partner, as filed
with the office of the Delaware Secretary of State, as it may be amended from
time to time.

     "Closing Price" on any date shall mean the last sale price, regular way,
or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid
and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal
consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or
admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is
not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported in
the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to
securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which the
Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if the Common Stock is not
listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last
quoted price, or if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked
prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by the National Association
of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or, if such system is no
longer in use, the principal other automated quotations system that may then be
in use or, if the Common Stock is not quoted by any such organization, the
average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional
market maker making a market in the Common Stock as such person is selected from
time to time by the Board of Directors of the General Partner.

     "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

"Common Stock" shall mean the shares of the common stock, par value $.10
per share, of the General Partner.

     "Consent of the Limited Partners" shall mean the written consent of a
Majority-In-Interest of the Limited Partners (or other specified group of
Limited Partners), which Consent shall be obtained prior to the taking of any
action for which it is required by this Agreement and may be given or withheld
by a Majority-In-Interest of the Limited Partners (or such specified group of
Limited Partners), unless otherwise expressly provided herein, in their sole and
absolute discretion.

     "Contributed Funds" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(a)(ii)
hereof.

     "Contributed Property" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1
hereof.

     "Contribution Agreements" shall mean all contribution and other agreements
executed by the Partnership and/or the General Partner in connection with the
issuance of Units.

     "Contribution Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.3 hereof.

     "Control" shall mean the ability, whether by the direct or indirect
ownership of shares or other equity interests, by contract or otherwise, to
elect a majority of the directors of a corporation, to select the managing
partner of a partnership, or otherwise to select, or have the power to remove
and then select, a majority of those persons exercising governing authority over
an Entity. In the case of a limited partnership, the sole general partner, all
of the general partners to the extent each has equal management control and
authority, or the managing general partner or managing general partners thereof
shall be deemed to have control of such partnership and, in the case of a trust,
any trustee thereof or any Person having the right to select any such trustee
shall be deemed to have control of such trust.

     "Conversion Factor" shall mean 1.0. The Conversion Factor shall be adjusted
in the event that the General Partner (i) declares or pays a dividend on its
outstanding shares of Common Stock in shares of Common Stock or makes a
distribution to all holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock in shares
of Common Stock, (ii) subdivides its outstanding shares of Common Stock, or
(iii) combines its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of
shares. The Conversion Factor shall be adjusted by multiplying the Conversion
Factor by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of
Common Stock issued and outstanding on the record date for such dividend,
distribution, subdivision or combination (assuming for such purposes that such
dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination has occurred as of such time)
and the denominator of which shall be the actual number of shares of Common
Stock (determined without the above assumption) issued and outstanding on the
record date for such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination. Any
adjustment to the Conversion Factor shall become effective immediately after the
effective date of such event retroactive to the record date, if any, for such
event.

     "Current Per Share Market Price" shall mean, as of any date, the average of
the Closing Price for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on such date or
the average of the Closing Price for any other period of Trading Days that the
General Partner deems appropriate with respect to any transaction or other event
for which "Current Per Share Market Price" is determined (other than a
redemption pursuant to any Rights Agreement unless otherwise provided therein).

     "Demand Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.2 hereof.

     "Depreciation" shall mean, with respect to any asset of the Partnership for
any fiscal year or other period, the depreciation, depletion or amortization, as
the case may be, allowed or

allowable for Federal income tax purposes in respect of such asset for such
fiscal year or other period; provided, however, that if there is a difference
between the Gross Asset Value and the adjusted tax basis of such asset,
Depreciation shall mean "book depreciation, depletion or amortization" as
determined under Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(g)(3) of the Regulations.

     "Development Land" shall mean any vacant land suitable for development as a
shopping center (other than the land described in Exhibit B).

     "Development Project" shall mean any Shopping Center Project developed or
constructed on Development Land.

     "Entity" shall mean any general partnership, limited partnership, limited
liability company, corporation, joint venture, trust, business trust,
cooperative, association or other entity.

     "ERISA" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended from time to time (or any corresponding provisions of succeeding laws).

     "Exercise Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in the Bucksbaum Rights
Agreement.

     "Foreign Owner" shall mean a foreign person or a person that is directly or
indirectly owned, in whole or in part, by a foreign person as determined in
accordance with Section 897(h)(4) of the Code and the Regulations promulgated
thereunder.

     "Funding Date" shall mean the date of consummation of any Funding Loan,
offering of shares of Common Stock or other transaction pursuant to which the
General Partner raises Required Funds.

     "Funding Loan Proceeds" shall mean the net cash proceeds received by the
General Partner in connection with any Funding Loan, after deduction of all
costs and expenses incurred by the General Partner in connection with such
Funding Loan.

     "Funding Loan(s)" shall mean any borrowing or refinancing of borrowings by
or on behalf of the General Partner from any lender for the purpose of advancing
the Funding Loan Proceeds to the Partnership as a loan pursuant to Section
4.3(a) hereof.

     "GAAP" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles.

     "General Partner" shall mean General Growth Properties, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, its duly admitted successors and assigns and any other Person who
is a general partner of the Partnership at the time of reference thereto.

     "General Partner Loan" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(a)
hereof.

     "Gross Asset Value" shall mean, with respect to any asset of the
Partnership, such asset's adjusted basis for Federal income tax purposes, except
as follows:

     (a) the initial Gross Asset Value of any asset contributed by a Partner to
the Partnership shall be (i) in the case of any asset heretofore contributed to
the partnership, the gross fair market value ascribed thereto on the books and
record of the Partnership and (ii) in the case of any other asset hereafter
contributed by a Partner, the gross fair market value of such asset as
determined under Article IV in the case of a contribution by the General Partner
or under Article VIII in the case of a contribution by a Limited Partner;

     (b) if the General Partner reasonably determines that an adjustment is
necessary or appropriate to reflect the relative economic interests of the
Partners, the Gross Asset Values of all Partnership assets shall be adjusted to
equal their respective gross fair market values, as reasonably determined by the
General Partner, as of the following times:

     (i) a Capital Contribution (other than a de minimis Capital

Contribution) to the Partnership by a new or existing Partner as consideration
for Units;

     (ii) the distribution by the Partnership to a Partner of more than a de
minimis amount of Partnership property as consideration for the redemption of
Units; and

     (iii) the liquidation of the Partnership within the meaning of Section
1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(g) of the Regulations;

     (c) the Gross Asset Values of Partnership assets distributed to any Partner
shall be the gross fair market values of such assets (taking Section 7701(g) of
the Code into account) as reasonably determined by the General Partner as of the
date of distribution; and

     (d) the Gross Asset Values of Partnership assets shall be increased (or
decreased) to reflect any adjustments to the adjusted basis of such assets
pursuant to Sections 734(b) or 743(b) of the Code, but only to the extent that
such adjustments are taken into account in determining Capital Accounts pursuant
to Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m) of the Regulations (See Exhibit C); provided,
however, that Gross Asset Values shall not be adjusted pursuant to this
paragraph to the extent that the General Partner reasonably determines that an
adjustment pursuant to paragraph (b) above is necessary or appropriate in
connection with a transaction that would otherwise result in an adjustment
pursuant to this paragraph (d).

At all times, Gross Asset Values shall be adjusted by any Depreciation taken
into account with respect to the Partnership's assets for purposes of computing
Net Income and Net Loss. Any adjustment to the Gross Asset Values of Partnership
property shall require an adjustment to the Partners' Capital Accounts; as for
the manner in which such adjustments are allocated to the Capital Accounts, see
paragraph (c) of the definition of Net Income and Net Loss in the case of
adjustment by Depreciation, and paragraph (d) of said definition in all other
cases.

     "Immediate Family" shall mean, with respect to any Person, such Person's
spouse, parents, parents-in-law, descendants, nephews, nieces, brothers,
sisters, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law and children-in-law.

     "Incentive Option" means an option to purchase Common Stock granted under
the Stock Incentive Plan.

     "Incentive Option Agreement" means the form of Incentive Option Agreement
to be used under the Stock Incentive Plan.

     "Initial Partnership Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the
preliminary recitals hereto.

     "Lien" shall mean any liens, security interests, mortgages, deeds of trust,
charges, claims, encumbrances, pledges, options, rights of first offer or first
refusal and any other rights or interests of others of any kind or nature,
actual or contingent, or other similar encumbrances of any nature whatsoever.

     "Limited Partner Representatives" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 6.11 hereof.

     "Limited Partners" shall mean the Persons listed under the caption "Limited
Partners" on Exhibit A hereto, their permitted successors or assigns or any
Person who, at the time of reference thereto, is a limited partner of the
Partnership.

"Liquidating Trustee" shall mean such individual or Entity as is selected
as the Liquidating Trustee hereunder by the General Partner, which individual or
Entity may include an Affiliate of the General Partner, provided such
Liquidating Trustee agrees in writing to be bound by the terms of this
Agreement. The Liquidating Trustee shall be empowered to give and receive
notices, reports and payments in connection with the dissolution, liquidation
and/or winding-up of the Partnership and shall hold and exercise such other
rights and powers as are necessary or required to permit all parties to deal
with the Liquidating Trustee in connection with the dissolution, liquidation
and/or winding-up of the Partnership.

     "Major Decisions" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.3 hereof.

     "Majority-In-Interest of the Limited Partners" shall mean Limited
Partner(s) (or specified group of Limited Partners) who hold in the aggregate
more than fifty percent (50%) of the Percentage Interests then allocable to and
held by the Limited Partners (or such specified group of Limited Partners), as a
class (excluding any Units held by the General Partner or any Affiliate of the
General Partner other than the existing Limited Partners, their Affiliates and
their successors and assigns, who shall not be excluded).

     " Management Agreement" shall mean a property management agreement with
respect to the property management of each Property entered into (a) with
respect to any Property in which the Partnership directly holds or acquires
ownership of a fee or leasehold interest, between the Partnership, as owner, and
the Property Manager, or such other property manager as the General Partner
shall engage, as manager, and (b) with respect to all Properties other than
those described in (a) above, between each Property Partnership, as owner, and
the Property Manager, or such other property manager as the General Partner
shall engage, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from
time to time.

     "Minimum Gain Attributable to Partner Nonrecourse Debt" shall mean "partner
nonrecourse debt minimum gain" as determined in accordance with Regulation
Section 1.704-2(i)(2).

     "Net Financing Proceeds" shall mean the cash proceeds received by the
Partnership in connection with any borrowing or refinancing of borrowing by or
on behalf of the Partnership or by or on behalf of any Property Partnership
(whether or not secured), after deduction of all costs and expenses incurred by
the Partnership or the Property Partnership in connection with such borrowing,
and after deduction of that portion of such proceeds used to repay any other
indebtedness of the Partnership or Property Partnerships, or any interest or
premium thereon.

     "Net Income or Net Loss" shall mean, for each fiscal year or other
applicable period, an amount equal to the Partnership's net income or loss for
such year or period as determined for federal income tax purposes by the
Accountants, determined in accordance with Section 703(a) of the Code (for this
purpose, all items of income, gain, loss or deduction required to be stated
separately pursuant to Section 703(a) of the Code shall be included in taxable
income or loss), with the following adjustments: (a) by including as an item of
gross income any tax-exempt income received by the Partnership; (b) by treating
as a deductible expense any expenditure of the Partnership described in Section
705(a)(2)(B) of the Code (including amounts paid or incurred to organize the
Partnership (unless an election is made pursuant to Code Section 709(b)) or to
promote the sale of interests in the Partnership and by treating deductions for
any losses incurred in connection with the sale or exchange of Partnership
property disallowed pursuant to

Section 267(a)(1) or Section 707(b) of the Code as expenditures described in
Section 705(a)(2)(B) of the Code); (c) in lieu of depreciation, depletion,
amortization, and other cost recovery deductions taken into account in computing
total income or loss, there shall be taken into account Depreciation; (d) gain
or loss resulting from any disposition of Partnership property with respect to
which gain or loss is recognized for federal income tax purposes shall be
computed by reference to the Gross Asset Value of such property rather than its
adjusted tax basis; and (e) in the event of an adjustment of the Gross Asset
Value of any Partnership asset which requires that the Capital Accounts of the
Partnership be adjusted pursuant to Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(e), (f)
and (m), the amount of such adjustment is to be taken into account as additional
Net Income or Net Loss pursuant to Exhibit C.

     "Net Operating Cash Flow" shall mean, with respect to any fiscal period of
the Partnership, the excess, if any, of "Receipts" over "Expenditures." For
purposes hereof, the term "Receipts" means the sum of all cash receipts of the
Partnership from all sources for such period, including Net Sale Proceeds and
Net Financing Proceeds but excluding Capital Contributions, and any amounts held
as reserves as of the last day of such period which the General Partner
reasonably deems to be in excess of necessary reserves as determined below. The
term "Expenditures" means the sum of (a) all cash expenses or expenditures of
the Partnership for such period, (b) the amount of all payments of principal and
interest on account of any indebtedness of the Partnership including payments of
principal and interest on account of General Partner Loans, or amounts due on
such indebtedness during such period (in the case of clauses (a) and (b),
excluding expenses or expenditures paid from previously established reserves or
deducted in computing Net Financing Proceeds or Net Sales Proceeds), and (c)
such additional cash reserves as of the last day of such period as the General
Partner deems necessary for any capital or operating expenditure permitted
hereunder.

     "Net Sale Proceeds" means the cash proceeds received by the Partnership in
connection with a sale of any asset by or on behalf of the Partnership or by or
on behalf of a Property Partnership after deduction of any costs or expenses
incurred by the Partnership or a Property Partnership, or payable specifically
out of the proceeds of such sale (including, without limitation, any repayment
of any indebtedness required to be repaid as a result of such sale or which the
General Partner elects to repay out of the proceeds of such sale, together with
accrued interest and premium, if any, thereon and any sales commissions or other
costs and expenses due and payable to any Person in connection with a sale,
including to a Partner or its Affiliates).

     "Nonrecourse Deductions" shall have the meaning set forth in Sections
1.704-2(b)(1) and (c) of the Regulations.

     "Nonrecourse Liabilities" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
1.704-2(b)(3) of the Regulations.

     "Offered Units" shall have the meaning set forth in the Bucksbaum Rights
Agreement.

     "Partner Nonrecourse Deductions" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 1.704-2(i)(2) of the Regulations.

     "Partners" shall mean the General Partner and the Limited Partners, their
duly admitted successors or assigns or any Person who is a partner of the
Partnership at the time of reference thereto.

     "Partnership" shall have the meaning set forth in the preliminary recitals
hereto.

     "Partnership Minimum Gain" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
1.704-2(b)(2) of the Regulations.

"Partnership Record Date" shall mean the record date established by the
General Partner for a distribution of Net Operating Cash Flow pursuant to
Section 5.2 hereof, which record date shall be the same as the record date
established by the General Partner for the distribution to its stockholders of
some or all of its share of such distribution.

     "Percentage Interest" shall mean, with respect to any Partner at any time,
the percentage ownership interest of such Partner in the Partnership at such
time, which percentage interest shall be equal to the quotient of the number of
Units owned by such Partner at such time divided by the aggregate number of
issued and outstanding Units at such time. The Percentage Interest of each
Partner on the date hereof is set forth opposite its name on Exhibit A.

     "Person" shall mean any individual or Entity.

     "Precontribution Gain" shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit C.

     "Prime Rate" shall mean the prime rate announced from time to time by Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. or any successor thereof.

     "Property" shall mean any Shopping Center Project in which the Partnership
or any Property Partnership, directly or indirectly, acquires ownership of a fee
or leasehold interest.

     "Property Manager" shall mean General Growth Management, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, or its permitted successors or assigns.

     "Property Partnership" shall mean and include any partnership, limited
liability company or other Entity in which the Partnership directly or
indirectly is or becomes a partner, member or other equity participant and which
has been or is formed for the purpose of directly or indirectly acquiring,
developing or owning a Property or a proposed Property.

     "Property Partnership Interests" shall mean and include the interest of the
Partnership as a partner, member or other equity participant in any Property
Partnership.

     "Qualified Individual" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.2
hereof.

     "Regulations" shall mean the final, temporary or proposed Income Tax
Regulations promulgated under the Code, as such regulations may be amended from
time to time (including corresponding provisions of succeeding regulations).

     "Regulatory Allocations" shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit C.

     "REIT" shall mean a real estate investment trust as defined in Section 856
of the Code.

     "REIT Expenses" shall mean (i) costs and expenses relating to the formation
and continuity of existence of the General Partner and its subsidiaries (which
subsidiaries shall, for purposes of this definition, be included within the
definition of General Partner), including taxes, fees and assessments associated
therewith, any and all costs, expenses or fees payable to any director or
trustee of the General Partner or such subsidiaries, (ii) costs and expenses
relating to any offer or registration of securities by the General Partner and
all statements, reports, fees and expenses incidental thereto, including
underwriting discounts and selling commissions applicable to any such offer of
securities, (iii) costs and expenses associated with the preparation and filing
of any periodic reports by the General Partner under federal, state or local
laws or regulations, including filings with the SEC, (iv) costs and expenses
associated with compliance by the General Partner with laws, rules and
regulations promulgated by any regulatory body, including the SEC, and (v) all
other operating or administrative costs of the General Partner incurred in the
ordinary course of its business on behalf of the Partnership.

     "REIT Requirements" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.2 hereof.

     "Requesting Party" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.2 hereof.

     "Required Funds" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3 hereof.

"Responding Party" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.2 hereof.

     "Restricted Period" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.5 hereof.

     "Restrictions Lapse Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.5
hereof.

     "Rights" shall mean "Rights", "Redemption Rights" or other similar rights
as defined in the Rights Agreements.

     "Rights Agreements" shall mean the Bucksbaum Rights Agreement and those
certain Redemption Rights Agreements entered into by the Partnership, the
General Partner and certain Limited Partners or their predecessors in interest
in connection with the issuance of Units to such Limited Partners or such
predecessors in interest.

     "SEC" shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.

     "Section 704(c) Tax Items" shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit C.

     "Shopping Center Project" shall mean any shopping center, including
construction and improvement activities undertaken with respect thereto and
off-site improvements, on-site improvements, structures, buildings and/or
related parking and other facilities.

     "Stock Incentive Plan" means the General Partner's 1993 Stock Incentive
Plan, as amended.

     "Substituted Limited Partner" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
8.2 hereof.

     "Tax Items" shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit C.

     "Trading Day" shall mean a day on which the principal national securities
exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading is open for
the transaction of business or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to
trading on any national securities exchange, shall mean any day other than a
Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New
York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.

     "Units" shall mean, with respect to any Partner, the partnership units
owned by such Partner in the Partnership. The number of Units held by each
Partner on the date hereof is set forth opposite its name on Exhibit A.

     Exhibits, Etc. References to an "Exhibit" or to a "Schedule" are, unless
otherwise specified, to one of the Exhibits or Schedules attached to this
Agreement, and references to an "Article" or a "Section" are, unless otherwise
specified, to one of the Articles or Sections of this Agreement. Each Exhibit
and Schedule attached hereto and referred to herein is hereby incorporated
herein by reference.

     ARTICLE II

     Continuation

     Continuation. The parties hereto do hereby continue the Partnership as a
limited partnership pursuant to the provisions of the Act, and all other
pertinent laws of the State of Delaware, for the purposes and upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth. The Partners agree that the rights and
liabilities of the Partners shall be as provided in the Act except as otherwise
herein expressly provided. The General Partner shall cause such notices,
instruments, documents, or certificates as may be required by applicable law or
which may be necessary to enable the Partnership to conduct its business and to
own its properties in the Partnership name to be filed or recorded in all
appropriate public offices.

     Name. The business of the Partnership shall continue to be conducted under
the name of "GGP Limited Partnership" or such other name as the General Partner
may select, and

all transactions of the Partnership, to the extent permitted by applicable law,
shall be carried on and completed in such name.

     Character of the Business. The purpose of the Partnership shall be to
acquire, hold, own, develop, construct, improve, maintain, operate, sell, lease,
transfer, encumber, convey, exchange, and otherwise dispose of or deal with
Properties; to acquire, hold, own, develop, construct, improve, maintain,
operate, sell, lease, transfer, encumber, convey, exchange, and otherwise
dispose of or deal with real and personal property of all kinds; to exercise all
of the powers of a partner, member or other equity participant in Property
Partnerships; to acquire, own, deal with and dispose of Property Partnership
Interests; to undertake such other activities as may be necessary, advisable,
desirable or convenient to the business of the Partnership, and to engage in
such other ancillary activities as shall be necessary or desirable to effectuate
the foregoing purposes. The Partnership shall have all powers necessary or
desirable to accomplish the purposes enumerated. In connection with and without
limiting the foregoing, but subject to all of the terms, covenants, conditions
and limitations contained in this Agreement and any other agreement entered into
by the Partnership, the Partnership shall have full power and authority,
directly or through its interest in Property Partnerships, to enter into,
perform, and carry out contracts of any kind, to borrow money and to issue
evidences of indebtedness, whether or not secured by mortgage, trust deed,
pledge or other lien, and, directly or indirectly, to acquire and construct
additional Properties necessary or useful in connection with its business.

     Location of the Principal Place of Business. The location of the principal
place of business of the Partnership shall be at 55 West Monroe Street, Suite
3100, Chicago, Illinois 60603, or such other location as shall be selected from
time to time by the General Partner in its sole discretion.

     Registered Agent and Registered Office. The Registered Agent of the
Partnership shall be Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Inc. or such other Person
as the General Partner may select in its sole discretion. The Registered Office
of the Partnership shall be 32 Loockerman Square, Suite L-100, Dover, Delaware
19901 or such other location as the General Partner may select in its sole and
absolute discretion.

     ARTICLE III

     Term

     Commencement. The Partnership heretofore commenced business as a limited
partnership upon the filing of the Certificate with the Secretary of State of
the State of Delaware.

     Dissolution. The Partnership shall continue until dissolved upon the
occurrence of the earliest of the following events:

     The dissolution, termination, retirement or Bankruptcy of the General
Partner unless the Partnership is continued as provided in Section 8.1 hereof;

     The election to dissolve the Partnership made in writing by the General
Partner with the Consent of the Limited Partners;

     The sale or other disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the
Partnership unless the General Partner, with the Consent of the Limited
Partners, elects to continue the Partnership business for the purpose of the
receipt and the collection of indebtedness or the collection of any

other consideration to be received in exchange for the assets of the Partnership
(which activities shall be deemed to be part of the winding up of the affairs of
the Partnership);

     Dissolution required by operation of law; or

     December 31, 2050.

     ARTICLE IV

     Contributions to Capital

     General Partner Capital Contribution. The General Partner has heretofore
contributed to the Partnership as its Capital Contribution the cash and property
reflected in the Partnership's books and records as having been contributed by
it. The gross fair market value of any property contributed by the General
Partner to the Partnership ("Contributed Property") after the date hereof, other
than money, shall be the acquisition cost of such Contributed Property (the
"Acquisition Cost"). The Acquisition Cost also shall include any costs and
expenses incurred by the General Partner in connection with such acquisition or
contribution; provided, however, that in the event the Acquisition Cost of
Contributed Property is financed by any borrowings by the General Partner, the
Partnership shall assume any such obligations of the General Partner
concurrently with the contribution of such property to the Partnership or, if
impossible, shall obligate itself to the General Partner in an amount and on
terms equal to such indebtedness, and the Acquisition Cost shall be reduced
appropriately. If the General Partner contributes Contributed Property to the
Partnership, the General Partner shall be deemed to have contributed to the
Partnership as Contributed Funds pursuant to Section 4.3(a)(ii) hereof an amount
equal to the Acquisition Cost of such Contributed Property.

     Limited Partner Capital Contributions. Each Limited Partner has heretofore
contributed, or is deemed to have contributed, as its initial Capital
Contribution to the capital of the Partnership, the property reflected in the
Partnership's books and records as having been contributed by it.

     Additional Funds.

     If the General Partner determines that funds are required or desired
("Required Funds") for any proper Partnership purpose in excess of the funds
anticipated to be available and the General Partner is not able or does not deem
it advisable to cause the Partnership to borrow such funds, the General Partner
shall either:

     to the extent the General Partner borrows all or any portion of the
Required Funds by entering into a Funding Loan, the General Partner shall, on
the Funding Date, lend (the "General Partner Loan") to the Partnership the
Funding Loan Proceeds on the same terms and conditions, including interest rate,
repayment schedule and costs and expenses, as shall be applicable with respect
to or incurred in connection with the Funding Loan; or

     to the extent the General Partner issues shares of its Common Stock or
other securities (other than notes issued in connection with a Funding Loan) to
raise the Required Funds, the General Partner shall, on the Funding Date,
contribute to the Partnership as an additional Capital Contribution the amount
of the Required Funds so raised ("Contributed Funds") (hereinafter,

each Funding Date on which the General Partner so contributes Contributed Funds
pursuant to this subparagraph (ii) is referred to as an "Adjustment Date"). In
the event the General Partner advances Required Funds to the Partnership as
Contributed Funds pursuant to this subparagraph (ii), the Partnership shall
assume and pay (or reflect on its books as additional Contributed Funds) the
expenses (including any applicable underwriting discounts) incurred by the
General Partner in connection with raising such Contributed Funds through a
public offering of its securities or otherwise.

     Effective on each Adjustment Date, the Partnership shall issue to the
General Partner the number of additional Units equal to the product of (i) the
number of shares of Common Stock issued by the General Partner in connection
with obtaining the Contributed Funds and (ii) the Conversion Factor. The General
Partner promptly shall provide the Limited Partners with notice of the issuance
of any such Units.

     Stock Incentive Plan. If at any time or from time to time Incentive Options
granted in connection with the General Partner's Stock Incentive Plan are
exercised in accordance with the terms of the Incentive Option Agreement:

     the General Partner shall, as soon as practicable after such exercise,
contribute to the capital of the Partnership an amount equal to the exercise
price paid to the General Partner by such exercising party in connection with
the exercise of the Incentive Option; and

     the Partnership shall issue to the General Partner, with respect to any
exercise of Incentive Options, the number of additional Units equal to the
product of (i) the number of shares of Common Stock issued by the General
Partner in connection with such exercise of Incentive Options and (ii) the
Conversion Factor.

     No Third Party Beneficiary. No creditor or other third party having
dealings with the Partnership shall have the right to enforce the right or
obligation of any Partner to make Capital Contributions or loans or to pursue
any other right or remedy hereunder or at law or in equity, it being understood
and agreed that the provisions of this Agreement shall be solely for the benefit
of, and may be enforced solely by, the parties hereto and their respective
successors and assigns. None of the rights or obligations of the Partners herein
set forth to make Capital Contributions or loans to the Partnership shall be
deemed an asset of the Partnership for any purpose by any creditor or other
third party, nor may such rights or obligations be sold, transferred or assigned
by the Partnership or pledged or encumbered by the Partnership to secure any
debt or other obligation of the Partnership or of any of the Partners.

     No Interest; No Return. No Partner shall be entitled to interest on its
Capital Contribution or on such Partner's Capital Account. Except as provided
herein or by law, no Partner shall have any right to demand or receive the
return of its Capital Contribution from the Partnership.

     ARTICLE V

     Allocations and Other Tax and Accounting Matters

     Allocations. The Net Income, Net Loss and/or other Partnership items shall
be allocated pursuant to the provisions of Exhibit C hereto.

     Distributions.

(a) The General Partner shall, from time to time as determined by the
General Partner (but in any event not less frequently than quarterly), cause the
Partnership to distribute all or a portion of Net Operating Cash Flow to the
Partners who are such on the relevant Partnership Record Date in such amounts as
the General Partner shall determine; provided, however, that all such
distributions shall be made pro rata in accordance with the Partners' then
Percentage Interests; and provided further, that notwithstanding the foregoing,
the General Partner shall use its best efforts to cause the Partnership to
distribute sufficient amounts to enable the General Partner to pay shareholder
dividends that will (a) satisfy the requirements for qualifying as a REIT under
the Code and Regulations ("REIT Requirements"), and (b) avoid any federal income
or excise tax liability of the General Partner. (b) In no event may a Limited
Partner receive a distribution of Net Operating Cash Flow in respect of a Unit
that such Partner has exchanged for a share of Common Stock pursuant to a Rights
Agreement on or prior to the relevant Partnership Record Date; rather, all such
distributions shall be made to the General Partner. Upon the receipt by the
General Partner of each Exercise Notice pursuant to which one or more Limited
Partners exercise Rights in accordance with the provisions of the Bucksbaum
Rights Agreement, the General Partner shall, unless the General Partner is
required or elects only to issue Common Stock to such exercising Limited
Partners, cause the Partnership to distribute to the Partners, pro rata in
accordance with their Percentage Interests on the date of delivery of such
Exercise Notice, all (or such lesser portion as the General Partner shall
reasonably determine to be prudent under the circumstances) of Net Operating
Cash Flow, which distribution shall be made prior to the closing of the purchase
and sale of the Offered Units specified in such Exercise Notice.

     Books of Account. At all times during the continuance of the Partnership,
the General Partner shall maintain or cause to be maintained full, true,
complete and correct books of account in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles wherein shall be entered particulars of all monies, goods
or effects belonging to or owing to or by the Partnership, or paid, received,
sold or purchased in the course of the Partnership's business, and all of such
other transactions, matters and things relating to the business of the
Partnership as are usually entered in books of account kept by persons engaged
in a business of a like kind and character. In addition, the Partnership shall
keep all records as required to be kept pursuant to the Act. The books and
records of account shall be kept at the principal office of the Partnership, and
each Partner shall at all reasonable times have access to such books and records
and the right to inspect the same.

     Reports. The General Partner shall cause to be submitted to the Limited
Partners, promptly upon receipt of the same from the Accountants and in no event
later than April 1 of each year, copies of Audited Financial Statements prepared
on a consolidated basis for the Partnership, the General Partner and the
Property Partnerships, together with the reports thereon, and all supplementary
schedules and information, prepared by the Accountants. The Partnership shall
also cause to be prepared such reports and/or information as are necessary for
the General Partner to determine its qualification as a REIT and its compliance
with REIT Requirements.

     Audits. Not less frequently than annually, the books and records of the
Partnership shall be audited by the Accountants. The General Partner shall,
unless determined otherwise by the General Partner with the Consent of the
Limited Partners, engage the

Accountants to audit the books and records of the Property Partnerships.

     Tax Elections and Returns.

     (a) All elections required or permitted to be made by the Partnership under
any applicable tax law shall be made by the General Partner in its sole
discretion, including without limitation an election on behalf of the
Partnership pursuant to Section 754 of the Code to adjust the basis of the
Partnership property in the case of transfers of Units, and the General Partner
shall not be required to make any such election.

     (b) The General Partner shall cause the Accountants to prepare and file all
state and federal tax returns on a timely basis. The General Partner shall cause
the Accountants to prepare and submit to the Limited Partner Representatives on
or before April 1 of each year for review all federal and state income tax
returns of the Partnership and cause the Accountants for the Property
Partnerships to submit to the Limited Partner Representatives on or before April
1 of each year for review all federal and state income tax returns of the
Property Partnerships. If the Limited Partner Representatives determine that any
modifications to the tax returns of the Partnership or any Property Partnership
should be considered, the Limited Partner Representatives shall, within thirty
(30) days following receipt of such tax returns from the Accountants or the
General Partner, indicate to the General Partner the suggested revisions to the
tax returns, which returns shall be resubmitted to the Limited Partner
Representatives for their review (but not approval). The Limited Partner
Representatives shall complete their review of the resubmitted returns within
ten (10) days after receipt thereof from the Accountants or the General Partner.
The General Partner shall consult in good faith with the Limited Partner
Representatives regarding any such proposed modifications to the tax returns of
the Partnership and/or the Property Partnerships. A statement of the allocation
of Net Income or Net Loss of the Partnership shown on the annual income tax
returns prepared by the Accountants and a statement of the allocation of Net
Income or Net Loss shown on the income tax return of the Property Partnerships
shall be transmitted and delivered to the Limited Partner Representatives within
ten (10) days of the receipt thereof by the Partnership. The General Partner
shall be responsible for preparing and filing all federal and state tax returns
for the Partnership and furnishing copies thereof to the Partners, together with
required Partnership schedules showing allocations of tax items and copies of
the tax returns of all Property Partnerships, all within the period of time
prescribed by law or by the provisions hereof.

     Tax Matters Partner. The General Partner is hereby designated as the Tax
Matters Partner within the meaning of Section 6231(a)(7) of the Code for the
Partnership; provided, however, (i) in exercising its authority as Tax Matters
Partner it shall be limited by the provisions of this Agreement affecting tax
aspects of the Partnership; (ii) the General Partner shall consult in good faith
with the Limited Partner Representatives regarding the filing of a Code Section
6227(b) administrative adjustment request with respect to the Partnership or a
Property before filing such request, it being understood, however, that the
provisions hereof shall not be construed to limit the ability of any Partner,
including the General Partner, to file an administrative adjustment request on
its own behalf pursuant to Section 6227(a) of the Code; (iii) the General
Partner shall consult in good faith with the Limited Partner Representatives
regarding the filing of a petition for judicial review of an administrative
adjustment request under Section 6228 of the Code, or a petition for judicial
review of a final partnership administrative judgment under Section 6226 of the
Code relating to the Partnership before filing such petition; (iv) the General
Partner shall give prompt notice to the Limited Partner Representatives of the

receipt of any written notice that the Internal Revenue Service or any state or
local taxing authority intends to examine Partnership income tax returns for any
year, receipt of written notice of the beginning of an administrative proceeding
at the Partnership level relating to the Partnership under Section 6223 of the
Code, receipt of written notice of the final Partnership administrative
adjustment relating to the Partnership pursuant to Section 6223 of the Code, and
receipt of any request from the Internal Revenue Service for waiver of any
applicable statute of limitations with respect to the filing of any tax return
by the Partnership; and (v) the General Partner shall promptly notify the
Limited Partner Representatives if the General Partner does not intend to file
for judicial review with respect to the Partnership. The General Partner, in
acting on behalf of the Partnership as tax matters partner of a Property
Partnership, shall afford the Limited Partners the same rights with respect to
Property Partnership tax matters as afforded to the Limited Partners under this
Section 5.7.

     Withholding. Each Partner hereby authorizes the Partnership to withhold or
pay on behalf of or with respect to such Partner any amount of federal, state,
local or foreign taxes that the General Partner determines the Partnership is
required to withhold or pay with respect to any amount distributable or
allocable to such Partner pursuant to this Agreement, including without
limitation any taxes required to be withheld or paid by the Partnership pursuant
to Sections 1441, 1442, 1445 or 1446 of the Code. Any amount paid on behalf of
or with respect to a partner shall constitute a loan by the Partnership to such
Partner, which loan shall be due within fifteen (15) days after repayment is
demanded of such Partner and shall be repaid through withholding of subsequent
distributions to such Partner. Nothing in this Section 5.8 shall create any
obligation on the General Partner to advance funds to the Partnership or to
borrow funds in order to make payments on account of any liability of the
Partnership under a withholding tax act. Any amounts payable by a Limited
Partner hereunder shall bear interest at the lesser of (a) the Prime Rate and
(b) the maximum lawful rate of interest on such obligation, such interest to
accrue from the date such amount is due (i.e., fifteen (15) days after demand)
until such amount is paid in full. To the extent the payment or accrual of
withholding tax results in a federal, state or local tax credit to the
Partnership, such credit shall be allocated to the Partner to whose distribution
the tax is attributable.

     ARTICLE VI

     Rights, Duties and Restrictions of the General Partner

     Expenditures by Partnership. The General Partner is hereby authorized to
pay compensation for accounting, administrative, legal, technical, management
and other services rendered to the Partnership. All of the aforesaid
expenditures shall be made on behalf of the Partnership and the General Partner
shall be entitled to reimbursement by the Partnership for any expenditures
incurred by it on behalf of the Partnership which shall be made other than out
of the funds of the Partnership. The Partnership shall also assume, and pay when
due, all Administrative Expenses.

     Powers and Duties of General Partner. The General Partner shall be
responsible for the management of the Partnership's business and affairs. Except
as otherwise herein expressly provided, and subject to the limitations contained
in Section 6.3 hereof with respect to Major Decisions, the General Partner shall
have, and is hereby granted, full and complete power, authority and discretion
to take such action for and on behalf of the Partnership and in its name as the
General Partner shall, in its sole and absolute discretion, deem necessary or
appropriate to carry out the purposes for which the Partnership was organized.
Except as otherwise expressly

provided herein, and subject to Section 6.3 hereof, the General Partner shall
have the right, power and authority:

     To manage, control, invest, reinvest, acquire by purchase, lease or
otherwise, sell, contract to purchase or sell, grant, obtain, or exercise
options to purchase, options to sell or conversion rights, assign, transfer,
convey, deliver, endorse, exchange, pledge, mortgage, abandon, improve, repair,
maintain, insure, lease for any term and otherwise deal with any and all
property of whatsoever kind and nature, and wheresoever situated, in furtherance
of the purposes of the Partnership;

     To acquire, directly or indirectly, interests in real estate of any kind
and of any type, and any and all kinds of interests therein, and to determine
the manner in which title thereto is to be held; to manage, insure against loss,
protect and subdivide any of the real estate, interests therein or parts
thereof; to improve, develop or redevelop any such real estate; to participate
in the ownership and development of any property; to dedicate for public use, to
vacate any subdivisions or parts thereof, to resubdivide, to contract to sell,
to grant options to purchase or lease, to sell on any terms; to convey, to
mortgage, pledge or otherwise encumber said property, or any part thereof; to
lease said property or any part thereof from time to time, upon any terms and
for any period of time, and to renew or extend leases, to amend, change or
modify the terms and provisions of any leases and to grant options to lease and
options to renew leases and options to purchase; to partition or to exchange
said real property, or any part thereof, for other real or personal property; to
grant easements or charges of any kind; to release, convey or assign any right,
title or interest in or about or easement appurtenant to said property or any
part thereof; to construct and reconstruct, remodel, alter, repair, add to or
take from buildings on said premises; to insure any Person having an interest in
or responsibility for the care, management or repair of such property; to direct
the trustee of any land trust to mortgage, lease, convey or contract to convey
the real estate held in such land trust or to execute and deliver deeds,
mortgages, notes, and any and all documents pertaining to the property subject
to such land trust or in any matter regarding such trust; to execute assignments
of all or any part of the beneficial interest in such land trust;

     To employ, engage or contract with or dismiss from employment or engagement
Persons to the extent deemed necessary by the General Partner for the operation
and management of the Partnership business, including but not limited to, the
engagement of the Property Manager pursuant to the Management Agreements and the
employment or engagement of other contractors, subcontractors, engineers,
architects, surveyors, mechanics, consultants, accountants, attorneys, insurance
brokers, real estate brokers and others;

     To enter into contracts on behalf of the Partnership;

     To borrow money, procure loans and advances from any Person for Partnership
purposes, and to apply for and secure, from any Person, credit or
accommodations; to contract liabilities and obligations, direct or contingent
and of every kind and nature with or without security; and to repay, discharge,
settle, adjust, compromise, or liquidate any such loan, advance, credit,

obligation or liability;

     To pledge, hypothecate, mortgage, assign, deposit, deliver, enter into sale
and leaseback arrangements or otherwise give as security or as additional or
substitute security, or for sale or other disposition any and all Partnership
property, tangible or intangible, including, but not limited to, real estate and
beneficial interests in land trusts, and to make substitutions thereof, and to
receive any proceeds thereof upon the release or surrender thereof; to sign,
execute and deliver any and all assignments, deeds and other contracts and
instruments in writing; to authorize, give, make, procure, accept and receive
moneys, payments, property, notices, demands, vouchers, receipts, releases,
compromises and adjustments; to waive notices, demands, protests and authorize
and execute waivers of every kind and nature; to enter into, make, execute,
deliver and receive written agreements, undertakings and instruments of every
kind and nature; to give oral instructions and make oral agreements; and
generally to do any and all other acts and things incidental to any of the
foregoing or with reference to any dealings or transactions which any attorney
may deem necessary, proper or advisable;

     To acquire and enter into any contract of insurance which the General
Partner deems necessary or appropriate for the protection of the Partnership,
for the conservation of the Partnership's assets or for any purpose convenient
or beneficial to the Partnership;

     To conduct any and all banking transactions on behalf of the Partnership;
to adjust and settle checking, savings, and other accounts with such
institutions as the General Partner shall deem appropriate; to draw, sign,
execute, accept, endorse, guarantee, deliver, receive and pay any checks,
drafts, bills of exchange, acceptances, notes, obligations, undertakings and
other instruments for or relating to the payment of money in, into, or from any
account in the Partnership's name; to execute, procure, consent to and authorize
extensions and renewals of the same; to make deposits and withdraw the same and
to negotiate or discount commercial paper, acceptances, negotiable instruments,
bills of exchange and dollar drafts;

     To demand, sue for, receive, and otherwise take steps to collect or recover
all debts, rents, proceeds, interests, dividends, goods, chattels, income from
property, damages and all other property, to which the Partnership may be
entitled or which are or may become due the Partnership from any Person; to
commence, prosecute or enforce, or to defend, answer or oppose, contest and
abandon all legal proceedings in which the Partnership is or may hereafter be
interested; and to settle, compromise or submit to arbitration any accounts,
debts, claims, disputes and matters which may arise between the Partnership and
any other Person and to grant an extension of time for the payment or
satisfaction thereof on any terms, with or without security;

     To make arrangements for financing, including the taking of all action
deemed necessary or appropriate by the General Partner to cause any approved
loans to be closed;

     To take all reasonable measures necessary to insure compliance by the
Partnership with applicable arrangements, and other contractual obligations and
arrangements entered into by the Partnership from time to time in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement, including

periodic reports as required to lenders and using all due diligence to insure
that the Partnership is in compliance with its contractual obligations;

     To maintain the Partnership's books and records; and

     To prepare and deliver, or cause to be prepared and delivered by the
Partnership's Accountants, all financial and other reports with respect to the
operations of the Partnership, and preparation and filing of all Federal and
state tax returns and reports.

Except as otherwise provided herein, to the extent the duties of the General
Partner require expenditures of funds to be paid to third parties, the General
Partner shall not have any obligations hereunder except to the extent that
Partnership funds are reasonably available to it for the performance of such
duties, and nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize or require the
General Partner, in its capacity as such, to expend its individual funds for
payment to third parties or to undertake any individual liability or obligation
on behalf of the Partnership.

     Major Decisions. The General Partner shall not, without the prior Consent
of the Limited Partners, on behalf of the Partnership, undertake any of the
following actions (the "Major Decisions"): Amend, modify or terminate this
Agreement other than to reflect the admission of additional limited partners
pursuant to Section 8.3 hereof or the issuance of additional Units pursuant to
Section 4.3 hereof.

     Make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or appoint or
acquiesce in the appointment of a custodian, receiver or trustee for all or any
part of the assets of the Partnership.

     Take title to any personal or real property, other than in the name of the
Partnership or a Property Partnership or pursuant to the provisions hereof.

     Institute any proceeding for Bankruptcy on behalf of the Partnership.

     Sell all or substantially all of the assets of the Partnership.

     Dissolve the Partnership.

     Actions with Respect to Certain Documents. Notwithstanding the provisions
of Section 6.3 hereof to the contrary, whenever the consent, agreement,
authorization or approval of the Partnership is required under any agreement to
which the Bucksbaum Limited Partners and/or their Affiliates are parties in
interest other than in their capacities as Limited Partners of the Partnership,
the prior approval of a majority of the directors of the General Partner who are
not Affiliates of the Bucksbaum Limited Partners shall be required.

     General Partner Participation. The General Partner agrees that all business
activities of the General Partner, including activities pertaining to the
acquisition, development and ownership of Properties, shall be conducted through
the Partnership (other than the General Partner's interest of not more than one
percent (1%) in Property Partnerships not owned through the Partnership).
Without the Consent of the Limited Partners, the General Partner shall not,

directly or indirectly, participate in or otherwise acquire any interest in any
real or personal property unless the Partnership participates in, or otherwise
acquires an interest in, such real or personal property at least to the extent
of 99 times such proposed participation by the General Partner. The General
Partner agrees that all borrowings for the purpose of making distributions to
its stockholders will be incurred by the Partnership or the Property
Partnerships and the proceeds of such indebtedness will be included as Net
Financing Proceeds hereunder.

     Proscriptions. The General Partner shall not have the authority to:

     Do any act in contravention of this Agreement or which would make it
impossible to carry on the ordinary business of the Partnership;

     Possess any Partnership property or assign rights in specific Partnership
property for other than Partnership purposes; or

     Do any act in contravention of applicable law.

Nothing herein contained shall impose any obligation on any Person or firm doing
business with the Partnership to inquire as to whether or not the General
Partner has properly exercised its authority in executing any contract, lease,
mortgage, deed or other instrument or document on behalf of the Partnership, and
any such third Person shall be fully protected in relying upon such authority.

     Additional Partners. Additional Partners may be admitted to the Partnership
only as provided in Section 8.3 hereof.

     Title Holder. To the extent allowable under applicable law, title to all or
any part of the properties of the Partnership may be held in the name of the
Partnership or any other individual, corporation, partnership, trust or
otherwise, the beneficial interest in which shall at all times be vested in the
Partnership. Any such title holder shall perform any and all of its respective
functions to the extent and upon such terms and conditions as may be determined
from time to time by the General Partner.

     Compensation of the General Partner. The General Partner shall not be
entitled to any compensation for services rendered to the Partnership solely in
its capacity as General Partner except with respect to reimbursement for those
costs and expenses constituting Administrative Expenses.

     Waiver and Indemnification.

     Neither the General Partner nor any Person acting on its behalf, pursuant
hereto, shall be liable, responsible or accountable in damages or otherwise to
the Partnership or to any Partner for any acts or omissions performed or omitted
to be performed by them within the scope of the authority conferred upon the
General Partner by this Agreement and the Act, provided that the General
Partner's or such other Person's conduct or omission to act was taken in good
faith and in the belief that such conduct or omission was in the best interests
of the Partnership and, provided further, that the General Partner or such other
Person shall not be guilty of fraud, misconduct or gross negligence. The
Partnership shall, and hereby does, indemnify and hold harmless the General
Partner and its Affiliates and any individual acting on their behalf from any
loss, damage, claim or liability, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorneys' fees and expenses, incurred by them by reason of any act performed by
them in accordance with the standards set

forth above or in enforcing the provisions of this indemnity; provided, however,
no Partner shall have any personal liability with respect to the foregoing
indemnification, any such indemnification to be satisfied solely out of the
assets of the Partnership.

     Any Person entitled to indemnification under this Agreement shall be
entitled to receive, upon application therefor, advances to cover the costs of
defending any proceeding against such Person; provided, however, that such
advances shall be repaid to the Partnership, without interest, if such Person is
found by a court of competent jurisdiction upon entry of a final judgment not to
be entitled to such indemnification. All rights of the indemnitee hereunder
shall survive the dissolution of the Partnership; provided, however, that a
claim for indemnification under this Agreement must be made by or on behalf of
the Person seeking indemnification prior to the time the Partnership is
liquidated hereunder. The indemnification rights contained in this Agreement
shall be cumulative of, and in addition to, any and all rights, remedies and
recourse to which the person seeking indemnification shall be entitled, whether
at law or at equity. Indemnification pursuant to this Agreement shall be made
solely and entirely from the assets of the Partnership and no Partner shall be
liable therefor.

     Limited Partner Representatives. A Majority-In-Interest of the Bucksbaum
Limited Partners shall appoint one or more representatives ("Limited Partner
Representatives"). A Majority-In-Interest of the Bucksbaum Limited Partners
shall have the right, at any time, within their sole discretion, to replace any
of the Limited Partner Representatives, to appoint a temporary substitute to act
for any Limited Partner Representative unable to act, or to vest in only one of
the Limited Partner Representatives the sole power to exercise rights of the
Limited Partner Representatives hereunder. The Limited Partner Representatives
shall be appointed by the Bucksbaum Limited Partners in writing, a copy of which
shall be delivered to the General Partner. Any appointments of Limited Partner
Representatives made hereunder shall remain effective until rescinded in a
writing delivered to the General Partner and the General Partner shall have the
right and authority to rely (and shall be fully protected in so doing) on the
actions taken and directions given by such Limited Partner Representatives
without any further evidence of their authority or further action by the
Bucksbaum Limited Partners.

     Operation in Accordance with REIT Requirements. The Partners acknowledge
and agree that the Partnership shall be operated in a manner that will enable
the General Partner to (a) satisfy the REIT Requirements and (b) avoid the
imposition of any federal income or excise tax liability. The Partnership shall
avoid taking any action, or permitting any Property Partnership to take any
action, which would result in the General Partner ceasing to satisfy the REIT
Requirements or would result in the imposition of any federal income or excise
tax liability on the General Partner. The determination as to whether the
Partnership has operated in the manner prescribed in this Section 6.12 shall be
made without regard to any action or inaction of the General Partner with
respect to distributions and the timing thereof.

     ARTICLE VII

     Dissolution, Liquidation and Winding-Up Accounting. In the event of the
dissolution, liquidation and winding-up of the Partnership, a proper accounting
(which shall be certified) shall be made of the Capital Account of each Partner
and of the Net Profits or Net Losses of the Partnership from the date of the
last previous accounting to the date of dissolution. Financial statements
presenting such accounting

shall include a report of a certified public accountant selected by the
Liquidating Trustee.

     Distribution on Dissolution. In the event of the dissolution and
liquidation of the Partnership for any reason, the assets of the Partnership
shall be liquidated for distribution in the following rank and order:

     Payment of creditors of the Partnership (other than Partners) in the order
of priority as provided by law;

     Establishment of reserves as provided by the General Partner to provide for
contingent liabilities, if any;

     Payment of debts of the Partnership to Partners, if any, in the order of
priority provided by law;

     To the Partners in accordance with the positive balances in their Capital
Accounts after giving effect to all contributions, distributions and allocations
for all periods, including the period in which such distribution occurs (other
than those adjustments made pursuant to this Section 7.2(d) and Section 7.3
hereof).

Whenever the Liquidating Trustee reasonably determines that any reserves
established pursuant to paragraph (b) above are in excess of the reasonable
requirements of the Partnership, the amount determined to be excess shall be
distributed to the Partners in accordance with the above provisions.

     Timing Requirements. In the event that the Partnership is "liquidated"
within the meaning of Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(g) of the Regulations, any and
all distributions to the Partners pursuant to Section 7.2(d) hereof shall be
made no later than the later to occur of (i) the last day of the taxable year of
the Partnership in which such liquidation occurs or (ii) ninety (90) days after
the date of such liquidation.

     Sale of Partnership Assets. In the event of the liquidation of the
Partnership in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Liquidating
Trustee may, with the Consent of the Limited Partners, sell Partnership or
Property Partnership property if the Liquidating Trustee has in good faith
solicited bids from unrelated third parties and obtained independent appraisals
before making any such sale; provided, however, all sales, leases, encumbrances
or transfers of Partnership assets shall be made by the Liquidating Trustee with
the prior Consent of the Limited Partners and solely on an "arm's-length" basis,
at the best price and on the best terms and conditions as the Liquidating
Trustee in good faith believes are reasonably available at the time and under
the circumstances and on a non-recourse basis to the Limited Partners. The
liquidation of the Partnership shall not be deemed finally terminated until the
Partnership shall have received cash payments in full with respect to
obligations such as notes, installment sale contracts or other similar
receivables received by the Partnership in connection with the sale of
Partnership assets and all obligations of the Partnership have been satisfied or
assumed by the General Partner. The Liquidating Trustee shall continue to act to
enforce all of the rights of the Partnership pursuant to any such obligations
until paid in full.

     Distributions in Kind. In the event that it becomes necessary to make a

distribution of Partnership property in kind, the General Partner may, with the
Consent of the Limited Partners, transfer and convey such property to the
distributees as tenants in common, subject to any liabilities attached thereto,
so as to vest in them undivided interests in the whole of such property in
proportion to their respective rights to share in the proceeds of the sale of
such property (other than as a creditor) in accordance with the provisions of
Section 7.2 hereof.

     Documentation of Liquidation. Upon the completion of the dissolution and
liquidation of the Partnership, the Partnership shall terminate and the
Liquidating Trustee shall have the authority to execute and record any and all
documents or instruments required to effect the dissolution, liquidation and
termination of the Partnership.

     Liability of the Liquidating Trustee. The Liquidating Trustee shall be
indemnified and held harmless by the Partnership from and against any and all
claims, demands, liabilities, costs, damages and causes of action of any nature
whatsoever arising out of or incidental to the Liquidating Trustee's taking of
any action authorized under or within the scope of this Agreement; provided,
however, that the Liquidating Trustee shall not be entitled to indemnification,
and shall not be held harmless, where the claim, demand, liability, cost, damage
or cause of action at issue arose out of:

     (a) A matter entirely unrelated to the Liquidating Trustee's action or
conduct pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement; or

     (b) The proven misconduct or negligence of the Liquidating Trustee.

     ARTICLE VIII

     Transfer of Units

     General Partner Transfer. The General Partner shall not withdraw from the
Partnership and shall not sell, assign, pledge, encumber or otherwise dispose of
all or any portion of its Units without the Consent of the Limited Partners.
Upon any transfer of Units in accordance with the provisions of this Section
8.1, the transferee General Partner shall become vested with the powers and
rights of the transferor General Partner, and shall be liable for all
obligations and responsible for all duties of the General Partner, once such
transferee has executed such instruments as may be necessary to effectuate such
admission and to confirm the agreement of such transferee to be bound by all the
terms and provisions of this Agreement with respect to the Units so acquired. It
is a condition to any transfer otherwise permitted hereunder that the transferee
assumes by operation of law or express agreement all of the obligations of the
transferor General Partner under this Agreement with respect to such transferred
Units and no such transfer (other than pursuant to a statutory merger or
consolidation wherein all obligations and liabilities of the transferor General
Partner are assumed by a successor corporation by operation of law) shall
relieve the transferor General Partner of its obligations under this Agreement
without the Consent of the Limited Partners, in their reasonable discretion. In
the event the General Partner withdraws from the Partnership, in violation of
this Agreement or otherwise, or dissolves or terminates or upon the Bankruptcy
of the General Partner, a Majority-In-Interest of the Limited Partners may elect
to continue the Partnership business by selecting a substitute general partner.

Transfers by Limited Partners. Each Limited Partner shall, subject to the
provisions of this Section 8.2 and Section 8.4 hereof, have the right to
transfer all or a portion of its Units to any Person, whether or not in
connection with the exercise of the Rights. It is a condition to any transfer
otherwise permitted hereunder that the transferee assumes by operation of law or
express agreement all of the obligations of the transferor Limited Partner under
this Agreement with respect to such transferred Units and no such transfer
(other than pursuant to a statutory merger or consolidation wherein all
obligations and liabilities of the transferor Partner are assumed by a successor
corporation by operation of law) shall relieve the transferor Partner of its
obligations under this Agreement without the approval of the General Partner, in
its reasonable discretion. Upon such transfer, the transferee shall be admitted
as a substituted limited partner as such term is defined in the Act (the
"Substituted Limited Partner") and shall succeed to all of the rights of the
transferor Limited Partner under this Agreement in the place and stead of such
transferor Limited Partner; provided, however, that notwithstanding the
foregoing, any transferee of any transferred Units, to the extent such
transferee is entitled to exercise Rights under the Rights Agreement, shall be
subject to any and all ownership limitations contained in the Charter which may
limit or restrict such transferee's ability to exercise the Rights. Any
transferee, whether or not admitted as a Substituted Limited Partner, shall take
subject to the obligations of the transferor hereunder. Unless admitted as a
Substituted Limited Partner, no transferee, whether by a voluntary transfer, by
operation of law or otherwise, shall have rights hereunder, other than to
receive such portion of the distributions made by the Partnership as are
allocable to the Units transferred.

     Issuance of Additional Units. At any time without the consent of any
Partner, but subject to the provisions of Section 8.4 hereof, the General
Partner may, upon its determination that the issuance of additional Units
("Additional Units") is in the best interests of the Partnership, cause the
Partnership to issue Additional Units to and admit as a limited partner in the
Partnership, any Person (the "Additional Partner") in exchange for the
contribution by such Person of cash and/or property desirable to further the
purposes of the Partnership under Section 2.3 hereof. The number of Additional
Units issued to any Additional Partner shall be equal to the product of the (a)
Conversion Factor multiplied by (b) the quotient of (i) the Gross Asset Value of
the property contributed by the Additional Partner (net of liabilities assumed
by the Partnership in connection with the contribution of such Property to the
Partnership or to which such Property is subject) as of the date of contribution
(the "Contribution Date") divided by (ii) Current Per Share Market Price in
respect of such transaction, and the General Partner may admit an Additional
Partner to the Partnership upon such other terms as it deems appropriate. The
General Partner shall be authorized on behalf of each of the Partners to amend
this Agreement to reflect the admission of any Additional Partner in accordance
with the provisions of this Section 8.3 in the event that the General Partner
deems such amendment to be desirable, and the General Partner promptly shall
deliver a copy of such amendment to each Limited Partner. Notwithstanding
anything contained herein to the contrary, an Additional Partner that acquires
Additional Units pursuant to this Section 8.3 shall not acquire any interest in,
and may not exercise or otherwise participate in, any Rights pursuant to the
Rights Agreements unless they are expressly granted such rights.

     Restrictions on Transfer. In addition to any other restrictions on transfer
herein contained, in no event may any transfer or assignment of Units by any
Partner be made (i) to any Person who lacks the legal right, power or capacity
to own Units; (ii) in violation of any

provision of any mortgage or trust deed (or the note or bond secured thereby)
constituting a Lien against a Property or any part thereof, or other instrument,
document or agreement to which the Partnership or any Property Partnership is a
party or otherwise bound; (iii) in violation of applicable law; (iv) of any
component portion of a Unit, such as the Capital Account, or rights to Net
Operating Cash Flow, separate and apart from all other components of such Unit
(other than such assignments of the right to receive distributions as the
General Partner shall approve in writing which approval the General Partner may
withhold in its sole discretion), (v) in the event such transfer would cause the
General Partner to cease to comply with the REIT Requirements, (vi) if such
transfer would cause a termination of the Partnership for federal income tax
purposes, (vii) if such transfer would, in the opinion of counsel to the
Partnership, cause the Partnership to cease to be classified as a partnership
for Federal income tax purposes, (viii) if such transfer would cause the
Partnership to become, with respect to any employee benefit plan subject to
Title 1 of ERISA, a "party-in-interest" (as defined in Section 3(14) of ERISA)
or a "disqualified person" (as defined in Section 4975(c) of the Code), or (ix)
if such transfer would, in the opinion of counsel to the Partnership, cause any
portion of the assets of the Partnership to constitute assets of any employee
benefit plan pursuant to Department of Labor Regulations Section 2510.2-101.
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, no Partner may sell,
assign or otherwise transfer its Units or other interest in the Partnership or
any portion thereof (or permit any interest in any Person that directly or
through another Person owns Units or other interests in the Partnership to be
transferred) to any Foreign Owner without providing written notice of the same
to the General Partner, and any such written notice shall be received by the
General Partner at least thirty days prior to any such sale, assignment or other
transfer. Any sale, assignment or other transfer of Units or other interests in
the Partnership made in violation of this Section 8.4 (including without
limitation any sale, assignment or other transfer of Units made without giving
the notice described in the immediately preceding sentence) shall be null and
void ab initio.

     ARTICLE IX

     Rights and Obligations of the Limited Partners

     No Participation in Management. Except as expressly permitted hereunder,
the Limited Partners shall not take part in the management of the Partnership's
business, transact any business in the Partnership's name or have the power to
sign documents for or otherwise bind the Partnership.

     Bankruptcy of a Limited Partner. The Bankruptcy of any Limited Partner
shall not cause a dissolution of the Partnership, but the rights of such Limited
Partner to share in the Net Profits or Net Losses of the Partnership and to
receive distributions of Partnership funds shall, on the happening of such
event, devolve on its successors or assigns, subject to the terms and conditions
of this Agreement, and the Partnership shall continue as a limited partnership.
However, in no event shall such assignee(s) become a Substituted Limited Partner
without the consent of the General Partner.

     No Withdrawal. No Limited Partner may withdraw from the Partnership without
the prior written consent of the General Partner, other than as expressly
provided in this Agreement.

     Duties and Conflicts. The General Partner recognizes that the Limited
Partners

and their Affiliates have or may hereafter have other business interests,
activities and investments, some of which may be in conflict or competition with
the business of the Partnership, and that, subject to the provisions of Sections
9.5 and 9.6 hereof, such Persons are entitled to carry on such other business
interests, activities and investments. Subject to the provisions of Sections 9.5
and 9.6 hereof, the Limited Partners and their Affiliates may engage in or
possess an interest in any other business or venture of any kind, independently
or with others, on their own behalf or on behalf of other entities with which
they are affiliated or associated, and such persons may engage in any
activities, whether or not competitive with the Partnership, without any
obligation to offer any interest in such activities to the Partnership or to any
Partner. Except as otherwise provided in Sections 9.5 and 9.6 hereof, neither
the Partnership nor any Partner shall have any right, by virtue of this
Agreement, in or to such activities, or the income or profits derived therefrom,
and the pursuit of such activities, even if competitive with the business of the
Partnership, shall not be deemed wrongful or improper.

     Acquisition Projects. Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 9.4
hereof to the contrary, the Bucksbaum Limited Partners and/or their Affiliates
shall not, during the period (the "Restricted Period") commencing on the date on
which the Partnership was formed and ending on the earlier of (i) April 16, 2003
and (ii) the Restrictions Lapse Date (as defined below), acquire an equity
ownership interest in any Acquisition Project other than through their ownership
interest in the Partnership. During the Restricted Period, the Bucksbaum Limited
Partners may, in their sole discretion, notify the General Partner of any
opportunities available to the Partnership to acquire any equity ownership
interest in an Acquisition Project to the extent the Bucksbaum Limited Partners
believe such opportunities may be appropriate for consideration by the
Partnership. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Bucksbaum Limited
Partners and/or their Affiliates may not acquire an equity ownership interest in
any Acquisition Project during the Restricted Period other than through their
ownership interests in the Partnership. The "Restrictions Lapse Date" shall mean
the first date on which all of the following conditions are satisfied: (i) none
of Martin Bucksbaum, Matthew Bucksbaum or John Bucksbaum is an executive officer
or director of the General Partner and (ii) Martin Bucksbaum, Matthew Bucksbaum,
John Bucksbaum and the Bucksbaum Limited Partners are not (or would not be
assuming such persons exercised all of their outstanding Rights in exchange for
Common Stock), in the aggregate, the beneficial owners of 10% or more of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock of the General Partner. For purposes of the
previous sentence, during his lifetime, a person shall be deemed to be the
beneficial owner of any shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by his
Affiliates (including shares that would be owned assuming all outstanding Rights
were exercised in exchange for Common Stock by such persons).

     Development Projects. Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 9.4
hereof to the contrary, the Bucksbaum Limited Partners and their Affiliates
shall not, during the Restricted Period, acquire, hold, own, develop, construct,
improve, maintain, operate, sell, lease, transfer, encumber, convey or otherwise
deal with any Development Project. During the Restricted Period, the Bucksbaum
Limited Partners may notify the General Partner of any opportunities available
to the Partnership to acquire an interest in any Development Project to the
extent such Limited Partners believe such opportunities may be appropriate for
consideration by the Partnership. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in Sections 9.5 and 9.6 of this Agreement or any other provisions of
this Agreement, Matthew Bucksbaum, John Bucksbaum, the Bucksbaum Limited
Partners and/or their respective Affiliates may hold equity

securities of any other publicly held Entity or subsidiary thereof engaged in
the shopping center development, ownership and/or management business provided
that they own in the aggregate less than five percent (5%) of the equity
securities of such Entity and neither Matthew Bucksbaum nor John Bucksbaum
serves as a director or executive officer of, or in a similar capacity for, such
Entity other than at the request of the General Partner or by reason of an
investment therein by the General Partner, the Partnership or any Affiliate of
the General Partner or the Partnership.

     Acquisition/Development Projects -- Further Assurances. Each Bucksbaum
Limited Partner acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in
Sections 9.5 and 9.6 hereof relating to Acquisition Projects and Development
Projects shall continue to remain effective with respect to such Bucksbaum
Limited Partner and its Affiliates for the applicable periods specified in such
Sections 9.5 and 9.6 notwithstanding any transfer of the Units of such Bucksbaum
Limited Partner. In connection with the transfer of all Units of any Bucksbaum
Limited Partner, such Bucksbaum Limited Partner shall execute and deliver to the
General Partner such instruments or documents as the General Partner may
reasonably request confirming the transferor Bucksbaum Limited Partner's
obligations to continue to be bound by the provisions of this Section 9.7 and
Sections 9.5 and 9.6 hereof.

     ARTICLE X

     Limited Partner Representations and Warranties Each Limited Partner,
severally, and not jointly and severally, represents and warrants to the
Partnership and the General Partner as follows:

     (a) Organization; Authority. The Limited Partner (i) in the case of a
Person who is a natural person, has full power and authority to execute, deliver
and perform this Agreement or (ii) in the case of a Person which is a
corporation, limited liability company, limited liability company, partnership
or trust, is a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, corporation
or trust, as the case may be, duly formed, validly existing and in good standing
(to the extent applicable) under the laws of its jurisdiction of formation with
the requisite authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement.

     (b) Due Authorization; Binding Agreement. The execution, delivery and
performance of this Agreement by the Limited Partner has been duly and validly
authorized by all necessary action of the Limited Partner in the case of a
Limited Partner which is an Entity. This Agreement has been duly executed and
delivered by the Limited Partner, or an authorized representative of the Limited
Partner, and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Limited
Partner, enforceable against the Limited Partner in accordance with the terms
hereof.

     (c) Consents and Approvals. No consent, waiver, approval or authorization
of, or filing, registration or qualification with, or notice to, any
governmental unit or any other Person is required to be made, obtained or given
by the Limited Partner in connection with the execution, delivery and
performance of this Agreement.

     (d) No Violation. None of the execution, delivery or performance of this
Agreement by the Limited Partner does or will, with or without the giving of
notice, lapse of time or both, (i) violate, conflict with or constitute a
default under any term or condition of (A) the organizational documents of the
Limited Partner or other agreement to which the Limited Partner is a party or

by which it is bound or (B) any judgment, decree, order, statute, injunction,
rule or regulation of a governmental unit applicable to the Limited Partner or
by which it or its assets or properties are bound or (ii) result in the creation
of any Lien or other encumbrance upon the assets or properties of the Limited
Partner.

     ARTICLE XI
     General Partner Representations and Warranties

     The General Partner represents and warrants to the Partnership and the
Limited Partners as follows:

     Organization; Authority. The General Partner is a corporation duly
incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State
of Delaware with full corporate power to execute, deliver and perform this
Agreement.

     Due Authorization; Binding Agreement. The execution, delivery and
performance of this Agreement by the General Partner has been duly and validly
authorized by all necessary action of the General Partner. This Agreement has
been duly executed and delivered by the General Partner, or an authorized
representative of the General Partner, and constitutes a legal, valid and
binding obligation of the General Partner, enforceable against the General
Partner in accordance with the terms hereof.

     Consents and Approvals. No consent, waiver, approval or authorization of,
or filing, registration or qualification with, or notice to, any governmental
unit or any other person is required to be made, obtained or given by the
General Partner in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of
this Agreement other than consents, waivers, approvals or authorizations which
have been obtained prior to the date hereof.

     ARTICLE XII
     Arbitration of Disputes

     Arbitration. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
Agreement, all claims, disputes and controversies between the parties hereto
(including, without limitation, any claims, disputes and controversies between
the Partnership and any one or more of the Partners and any claims, disputes and
controversies between any one or more Partners) arising out of or in connection
with this Agreement or the Partnership relating to the validity, construction,
performance, breach, enforcement or termination thereof, or otherwise, shall be
resolved by binding arbitration in New York, New York, in accordance with this
Article XII and, to the extent not inconsistent herewith, the Expedited
Procedures and Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration
Association.

     Procedures. Any arbitration called for by this Article XII shall be
conducted in accordance with the following procedures:

     The Partnership or any Partner (the "Requesting Party") may demand
arbitration pursuant to Section 12.1 hereof at any time by giving written notice
of such demand (the "Demand

Notice") to all other Partners and (if the Requesting Party is not the
Partnership) to the Partnership which Demand Notice shall describe in reasonable
detail the nature of the claim, dispute or controversy.

     Within fifteen (15) days after the giving of a Demand Notice, the
Requesting Party, on the one hand, and each of the other Partners and/or the
Partnership against whom the claim has been made or with respect to which a
dispute has arisen (collectively, the "Responding Party"), on the other hand,
shall select and designate in writing to the other party one reputable,
disinterested individual (a "Qualified Individual") willing to act as an
arbitrator of the claim, dispute or controversy in question. Each of the
Requesting Party and the Responding Party shall use their best efforts to select
a present or former partner of a "Big 6" accounting firm having no affiliation
with any of the parties as their respective Qualified Individual. Within fifteen
(15) days after the foregoing selections have been made, the arbitrators so
selected shall jointly select a present or former partner of a "Big 6"
accounting firm having no affiliation with any of the parties as the third
Qualified Individual willing to act as an arbitrator of the claim, dispute or
controversy in question. In the event that the two arbitrators initially
selected are unable to agree on a third arbitrator within the second fifteen
(15) day period referred to above, then, on the application of either party, the
American Arbitration Association shall promptly select and appoint a present or
former partner of a "Big 6" accounting firm having no affiliation with any of
the parties as the Qualified Individual to act as the third arbitrator. The
three arbitrators selected pursuant to this subsection (b) shall constitute the
arbitration panel for the arbitration in question.

     The presentations of the parties hereto in the arbitration proceeding shall
be commenced and completed within sixty (60) days after the selection of the
arbitration panel pursuant to subsection (b) above, and the arbitration panel
shall render its decision in writing within thirty (30) days after the
completion of such presentations. Any decision concurred in by any two (2) of
the arbitrators shall constitute the decision of the arbitration panel, and
unanimity shall not be required.

     The arbitration panel shall have the discretion to include in its decision
a direction that all or part of the attorneys' fees and costs of any party or
parties and/or the costs of such arbitration be paid by any other party or
parties. On the application of a party before or after the initial decision of
the arbitration panel, and proof of its attorneys' fees and costs, the
arbitration panel shall order the other party to make any payments directed
pursuant to the preceding sentence.

     Binding Character. Any decision rendered by the arbitration panel pursuant
to this Article XII shall be final and binding on the parties hereto, and
judgment thereon may be entered by any state or federal court of competent
jurisdiction.

     Exclusivity. Arbitration shall be the exclusive method available for
resolution of claims, disputes and controversies described in Section 12.1
hereof, and the Partnership and its Partners stipulate that the provisions
hereof shall be a complete defense to any suit, action, or proceeding in any
court or before any administrative or arbitration tribunal with respect to any
such claim, controversy or dispute. The provisions of this Article XII shall
survive the dissolution of the Partnership.

     No Alteration of Agreement.  Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
give

the arbitrators any authority, power or right to alter, change, amend, modify,
add to, or subtract from any of the provisions of this Partnership Agreement.

     ARTICLE XIII
     General Provisions

     Notices. All notices, offers or other communications required or permitted
to be given pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and may be personally
served, telecopied or sent by United States mail and shall be deemed to have
been given when delivered in person, upon receipt of telecopy or three business
days after deposit in United States mail, registered or certified, postage
prepaid, and properly addressed, by or to the appropriate party. For purposes of
this Section 13.1, the addresses of the parties hereto shall be as set forth in
the books and records of the Partnership. The address of any party hereto may be
changed by a notice in writing given in accordance with the provisions hereof.

     Successors. This Agreement and all the terms and provisions hereof shall be
binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of all Partners, and their legal
representatives, heirs, successors and permitted assigns, except as expressly
herein otherwise provided.

     Effect and Interpretation. This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in conformity with the laws of the State of Delaware (without regard
to its conflicts of law principles).

     Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which
shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same
instrument.

     Partners Not Agents. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to
constitute any Partner the agent of another Partner, except as specifically
provided herein, or in any manner to limit the Partners in the carrying on of
their own respective businesses or activities.

     Entire Understanding; Etc. This Agreement, together with any and all
Contribution Agreements and Rights Agreements, constitutes the entire agreement
and understanding among the Partners and supersedes any prior understandings
and/or written or oral agreements among them respecting the subject matter
within (including without limitation the Initial Partnership Agreement except
for the consents, approvals and waivers given therein, the agreements by
Partners to be bound by the provisions thereof, as the same is amended hereby,
and the agreements of former Bucksbaum Limited Partners under Sections 9.3 and
9.4, which shall continue in full force and effect).

     Amendments. Except as otherwise provided herein, this Agreement may not be
amended, and no provision may be waived, except by a written instrument signed
by the General Partner (and, in the case of amendments or waivers benefiting the
Bucksbaum Limited Partners, approved on behalf of the General Partner by at
least a majority of its directors who are not Affiliates of the Bucksbaum
Limited Partners) and a Majority-In-Interest of the Limited Partners.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, without the written
consent of a Limited Partner, this Agreement may not be amended to convert such
Limited Partner's partnership interest in the Partnership to a general
partnership interest (or otherwise adversely affect such Limited Partner's
limited liability) or to materially adversely affect such Limited Partner's
rights to distributions or allocations except in connection with the admission
of Additional Partners unless such amendment affects the Bucksbaum Limited
Partners in the same manner on a Unit-for-Unit basis. The immediately preceding
sentence of this Section 13.7 may

not be amended to modify the approval rights of a Partner without such
Partner's consent.

     Severability. If any provision of this Agreement, or the application of
such provision to any person or circumstance, shall be held invalid by a court
of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this Agreement, or the application
of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those to which it is
held invalid by such court, shall not be affected thereby.

     Trust Provision. This Agreement, to the extent executed by the trustee of a
trust, is executed by such trustee solely as trustee and not in a separate
capacity. Nothing herein contained shall create any liability on, or require the
performance of any covenant by, any such trustee individually, nor shall
anything contained herein subject the individual personal property of any
trustee to any liability.

     Pronouns and Headings. As used herein, all pronouns shall include the
masculine, feminine and neuter, and all defined terms shall include the singular
and plural thereof wherever the context and facts require such construction. The
headings, titles and subtitles herein are inserted for convenience of reference
only and are to be ignored in any construction of the provisions hereof. Any
references in this Agreement to "including" shall be deemed to mean "including
without limitation".

     Assurances. Each of the Partners shall hereafter execute and deliver such
further instruments and do such further acts and things as may be required or
useful to carry out the intent and purpose of this Agreement and as are not
inconsistent with the terms hereof.

     Issuance of Certificates Representing Units. The General Partner may, in
its sole discretion, issue certificates representing all or a portion of the
Units of one or more Partners and, in such event, the General Partner shall
establish such rules and regulations relating to issuances and reissuances of
certificates upon transfer of Units, the division of Units among multiple
certificates and the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of certificates as
the General Partner reasonably deems appropriate.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement or
caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date and year first above
written.

GENERAL PARTNER:

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.,
a Delaware corporation

By:
    ---------------------------------
Its:
     --------------------------------
     55 West Monroe Street
     Suite 3100
     Chicago, Illinois 60603

LIMITED PARTNERS:

M.B. CAPITAL PARTNERS III, a South

Dakota general partnership

By: GENERAL TRUST COMPANY, not
    individually but solely as Trustee
    of Martin Investment Trust G, a partner

By:
    ---------------------------------
Its:
     --------------------------------

     TABLE OF CONTENTS

General Partner:

Number of Units
Percentage Interest

General Growth Properties, Inc.
35,542,256.5822

Limited Partners:

M.B. Capital Partners III

15,555,864.0240

Stanley Richards
Revocable Trust
149,706.3938

Joe W. Lowrance
57,620.0000

LWLDA Limited Partnership
45,223.0000

Brent M. Milgrom
57,620.0000

GDC/A&B Limited Partnership
45,223.0000

Edward S. Brown
25,000.000

Lawrence A. Brown
17,647.0000

Merrill H.J. Roth
29,024.0000

The Roth Family
Limited Partnership
22,308.0000

Arthur B. Morgenstern
54,625.0000

Joseph Straus, Jr.
78,017.0000

Warren Weiner and Penny
Weiner, Husband and Wife,
as Tenants-by-the-Entirety
15,855.5000

Joint Revocable Trust of
Marvin Rounick and Judy
Rounick
15,855.5000

Arthur Bruce Associates
31,711.0000

Marvin Rounick and
Judy Rounick, Husband
and Wife, as Tenants-by-
the-Entirety
55,670.0000

Joint Revocable Trust of
Warren and Penny Weiner
18,557.0000

Irrevocable Trust of
Warren Weiner dated
January 24, 1978 F/B/O
Robyn Weiner
18,557.0000

Irrevocable Trust of
Warren Weiner dated
January 24, 1978 F/B/O
Kimberly Weiner
18,557.0000

Forbes/Cohen Properties
801,842.0000

Jackson Properties
346,795.0000

Lakeview Square Properties
296,363.0000

CA Southlake Investors, Ltd.
353,537.0000

Peter D. Leibowits
518,833.0000

Total Units:.
100.0000

EXHIBIT B

Certain Development Projects

1.   Evansville, Indiana undeveloped land

2.   Des Moines, Iowa undeveloped land

3.   Sioux City, Iowa undeveloped land

4.   Omaha, Nebraska undeveloped land

5.   Fort Worth, Texas undeveloped land

6.   Bowling Green, Kentucky undeveloped land

7.   Colorado Springs, Colorado (50% joint venture interest)

     EXHIBIT C

     Allocations

3. Allocation of Net Income and Net Loss.

     (a) Net Income. Except as otherwise provided herein, Net Income for any
fiscal year or other applicable period shall be allocated in the following order
and priority:

     (1) First, to the Partners, until the cumulative Net Income allocated
pursuant to this subparagraph (a)(1) for the current and all prior periods
equals the cumulative Net Loss allocated pursuant to subparagraph (b)(2) hereof
for all prior periods, among the Partners in the reverse order that such Net
Loss was allocated to the Permitted Partners pursuant to subparagraph (b)(2)
hereof (and, in the event of a shift of a Partner's interest in the Partnership,
to the Partners in a manner the most equitably reflects the successors in
interest to the Permitted Partners).

     (2) Thereafter, the balance of the Net Income, if any, shall be allocated
to the Partners in accordance with their respective Percentage Interests.

     (b) Net Loss. Except as otherwise provided herein, Net Loss of the
Partnership for each fiscal year or other applicable period shall be allocated
as follows:

     (1) To the Partners in accordance with their respective Percentage
Interests.

(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (b)(1) hereof, to the extent any Net Loss
allocated to a Partner under subparagraph (b)(1) hereof or this subparagraph
(b)(2) would cause such Partner (hereinafter, a "Restricted Partner") to have an
Adjusted Capital Account Deficit as of the end of the fiscal year to which such
Net Loss relates, such Net Loss shall not be allocated to such Restricted
Partner and instead shall be allocated to the other Partner(s) (hereinafter, the
"Permitted Partners") pro rata in accordance with their relative Percentage
Interests.

4. Special Allocations.

     Notwithstanding any provisions of paragraph 1 of this Exhibit C, the
following special allocations shall be made in the following order:

     (a) Minimum Gain Chargeback (Nonrecourse Liabilities). If there is a net
decrease in Partnership Minimum Gain for any Partnership fiscal year (except as
a result of conversion or refinancing of Partnership indebtedness, certain
capital contributions or revaluation of the Partnership property as further
outlined in Regulation Sections 1.704-2(d)(4), (f)(2) or (f)(3)), each Partner
shall be specially allocated items of Partnership income and gain for such year
(and, if necessary, subsequent years) in an amount equal to that Partner's share
of the net decrease in Partnership Minimum Gain. The items to be so allocated
shall be determined in accordance with Regulation Section 1.704-2(f). This
paragraph (a) is intended to comply with the minimum gain chargeback requirement
in said section of the Regulations and shall be interpreted consistently
therewith. Allocations pursuant to this paragraph (a) shall be made in
proportion to the respective amounts required to be allocated to each Partner
pursuant hereto.

     (b) Minimum Gain Attributable to Partner Nonrecourse Debt. If there is a
net decrease in Minimum Gain Attributable to Partner Nonrecourse Debt during any
fiscal year (other than due to the conversion, refinancing or other change in
the debt instrument causing it to become partially or wholly nonrecourse,
certain capital contributions, or certain revaluations of Partnership property
as further outlined in Regulation Section 1.704-2(i)(4)), each Partner shall be
specially allocated items of Partnership income and gain for such year (and, if
necessary, subsequent years) in an amount equal to that Partner's share of the
net decrease in the Minimum Gain Attributable to Partner Nonrecourse Debt. The
items to be so allocated shall be determined in accordance with Regulation
Section 1.704-2(i)(4) and (j)(2). This paragraph (b) is intended to comply with
the minimum gain chargeback requirement with respect to Partner Nonrecourse Debt
contained in said section of the Regulations and shall be interpreted
consistently therewith. Allocations pursuant to this paragraph (b) shall be made
in proportion to the respective amounts required to be allocated to each Partner
pursuant hereto.

     (c) Qualified Income Offset. In the event a Limited Partner unexpectedly
receives any adjustments, allocations or distributions described in Regulation
Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5), or (6), and such Limited Partner has an
Adjusted Capital Account Deficit, items of Partnership income and gain shall be
specially allocated to such Partner in an amount and manner sufficient to
eliminate the Adjusted Capital Account Deficit as quickly as possible. This
paragraph (c) is intended to constitute a "qualified income offset" under
Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) and shall be interpreted consistently
therewith.

(d) Nonrecourse Deductions. Nonrecourse Deductions for any fiscal year or
other applicable period shall be allocated to the Partners in accordance with
their respective Percentage Interests.

     (e) Partner Nonrecourse Deductions. Partner Nonrecourse Deductions for any
fiscal year or other applicable period shall be specially allocated to the
Partner that bears the economic risk of loss for the debt (i.e., the Partner
Nonrecourse Debt) in respect of which such Partner Nonrecourse Deductions are
attributable (as determined under Regulation Section 1.704-2(b)(4) and (i)(1).

     (f) Precontribution Gain. In the event that, during any fiscal year or
other applicable period, any Property Partnership allocates to the Partnership
Precontribution Gain, each Partner (or its successors in interest) who
heretofore contributed to the capital of the Partnership an interest in such
Property Partnership shall be allocated that Precontribution Gain in accordance
with its respective interest in such Precontribution Gain. For purposes hereof,
"Precontribution Gain" shall mean, with respect to each Shopping Center Project
owned by an existing Property Partnership, that unrealized gain attributable to
the excess of (a) the fair market value of such Shopping Center Project on April
15, 1993, over (b) the adjusted tax basis of such Shopping Center Project on
such date; provided, however, that the amount of any Precontribution Gain
associated with a Shopping Center Project shall be adjusted to account for
allocations made in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(c) of this
Exhibit C and shall not, in any event, exceed that amount of gain actually
allocated to the Partnership by the Property Partnership as a result of the sale
or other disposition of such Shopping Center Project.

     (g) Curative Allocations. The Regulatory Allocations shall be taken into
account in allocating other items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among the
Partners so that, to the extent possible, the cumulative net amount of
allocations of Partnership items under paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Exhibit C
shall be equal to the net amount that would have been allocated to each Partner
if the Regulatory Allocations had not occurred. This subparagraph (g) is
intended to minimize to the extent possible and to the extent necessary any
economic distortions which may result from application of the Regulatory
Allocations and shall be interpreted in a manner consistent therewith. For
purposes hereof, "Regulatory Allocations" shall mean the allocations provided
under this paragraph 2.

5. Tax Allocations.

     (a) Generally. Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) hereof, items of income,
gain, loss, deduction and credit to be allocated for income tax purposes
(collectively, "Tax Items") shall be allocated among the Partners on the same
basis as their respective book items.

     (b) Sections 1245/1250 Recapture. If any portion of gain from the sale of
property is treated as gain which is ordinary income by virtue of the
application of Code Sections 1245 or 1250 ("Affected Gain"), then (A) such
Affected Gain shall be allocated among the Partners in the same proportion that
the depreciation and amortization deductions giving rise to the Affected Gain
were allocated and (B) other Tax Items of gain of the same character that would
have been

recognized, but for the application of Code Sections 1245 and/or 1250, shall be
allocated away from those Partners who are allocated Affected Gain pursuant to
Clause (A) so that, to the extent possible, the other Partners are allocated the
same amount, and type, of capital gain that would have been allocated to them
had Code Sections 1245 and/or 1250 not applied. For purposes hereof, in order to
determine the proportionate allocations of depreciation and amortization
deductions for each fiscal year or other applicable period, such deductions
shall be deemed allocated on the same basis as Net Income and Net Loss for such
respective period.

     (c) Allocations Respecting Section 704(c) and Revaluations; Curative
Allocations Resulting from the Ceiling Rule. Notwithstanding paragraph (b)
hereof, Tax Items with respect to Partnership property that is subject to Code
Section 704(c) and/or Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(f) (collectively
"Section 704(c) Tax Items") shall be allocated in accordance with said Code
section and/or Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(4)(i), as the case may be. The
allocation of Tax Items shall be in accordance with the "traditional method" set
forth in Treas. Reg. _1.704-3(b)(1), unless otherwise determined by the General
Partner, and shall be subject to the ceiling rule stated in Regulation Section
1.704-3(b)(1). The General Partner is authorized to specially allocate Tax Items
(other than the Section 704(c) Tax Items) to cure for the effect of the ceiling
rule. The intent of this Section 3(c) and Section 2(f) above is that each
Partner who contributed to the capital of the Partnership a partnership interest
in an existing Property Partnership will bear, through reduced allocations of
depreciation and increased allocations of gain or other items, the tax
detriments associated with any Precontribution Gain and this Section 3(c) and
Section 2(f) are to be interpreted consistently with such intent.

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.18>
 18
 c02442exv10w18.txt
 STOCKHOLDERS AGREEMENT

Exhibit 10.18

                             STOCKHOLDERS AGREEMENT

                          Dated as of December 20, 1995

                                  By and Among

                                GGP/HOMART, INC.

                             GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

                    THE COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
                    AS TRUSTEE OF THE COMMON RETIREMENT FUND

                    EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF IOWA

                           USG ANNUITY & LIFE COMPANY

                   TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA

                                       and

                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

-i-

-ii-

-iii-

-iv-

Schedule I      Aggregate, Initial and Additional Subscriptions
Schedule II     Planned Expansions or Renovation Programs
Schedule III    Properties Currently Under Development
Schedule IV     Properties Securing Wells Fargo Credit Facility
Schedule V      Loan Expansions
Schedule VI     List of Existing Lender Consents
Schedule VII    Management Policies
Schedule VIII   Intentionally Omitted
Schedule IX     Excluded Costs and Expenses
Schedule X      Management Fees and Reimbursements
Schedule XI     Intentionally Omitted
Schedule XII    Intentionally Omitted
Schedule XIII   Planned Regional Malls
Schedule XIV    Expenses
Schedule XV     Special Reserves
Schedule XVI    Grandfathered Malls
Schedule XVII   Additional Subscriptions

-v-

Exhibit A Definition of Company FFO
Exhibit B Definition of General Growth FFO
Exhibit C Significant Company Assets
Exhibit D Form of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
Exhibit E Form of By-laws
Exhibit F Form of Natick Mall Agreement
Exhibit G Form of Management Transfer Agreement
Exhibit H Form of Sublease
Exhibit I Form of Annual Business Plan
Exhibit J Trade Area Maps
Exhibit K Form of Transferee Agreement

-vi-

STOCKHOLDERS AGREEMENT

          This STOCKHOLDERS AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made and entered
into as of December 20, 1995, by and among GGP/HOMART, INC., a Delaware
corporation (the "Company"), GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited
partnership ("GGP"), THE COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AS TRUSTEE OF THE
COMMON RETIREMENT FUND ("NYSCRF"), a fund, established pursuant to NY Retirement
and Social Security Law Section 422, in the custody of the Comptroller of the
State of New York, EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF IOWA, USG ANNUITY & LIFE
COMPANY, TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA and GENERAL GROWTH
PROPERTIES, INC., a Delaware corporation ("GG Properties"). GGP, NYSCRF,
EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF IOWA, USG ANNUITY & LIFE COMPANY AND
TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA are sometimes referred to herein
individually as a "Stockholder" or collectively as the "Stockholders."

                                    RECITALS

          A. Upon the Closing (as defined below), the Stockholders will have
funded their Initial Subscriptions (as defined below) and will own all of the
issued and outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and
Class C Common Stock, each with a par value of $.01 per share, of the Company
(collectively, the "Common Stock").

          B. Each of the Stockholders desires to promote the interests of the
Company and the mutual interests of the Stockholders by establishing herein
certain terms and conditions upon which the Common Stock will be held, including
provisions relating to election of members of the board of directors of the
Company, governance of the Company, dissolution of the Company, the transfer or
exchange of the shares of Common Stock and other matters contained herein.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration,
receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company, the
Stockholders and GG Properties hereby agree as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I.

                                   DEFINITIONS

          As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them below:

1.1. "Accredited Investor" shall mean any institutional accredited
investor as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the 33 Act or as
defined under Rule 501(a)(8) under the 33 Act (if all of the equity owners of
such investor are Persons defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the
33 Act); provided that such institutional accredited investor has total assets
in excess of $200,000,000.

          1.2. "Additional Subscription Dates" shall have the meaning set forth
in Section 7.1.

          1.3. "Additional Subscription Payment" shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 7.1.

          1.4. "Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other
Person that, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries,
controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person, and
the term "Affiliated" has a meaning correlative to the foregoing. As used
herein, the term "control" shall mean either (i) having (directly or indirectly
through one or more intermediaries) the exclusive power to direct the management
and policies of a Person or (ii) having both (A) at least fifty percent (50%) of
the economic interest in a Person and (B) at least fifty percent (50%) of the
voting rights with respect to such Person with the full right to exercise such
vote, and the term "controlled" has a meaning correlative to the foregoing.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, General Growth Management, Inc., GGP Management,
Inc., any successor of either of them and any other Person shall be deemed to be
Affiliates of GGP, provided that GG Properties or GGP, directly or indirectly,
is entitled to receive at least seventy-five percent (75%) of all dividends or
other distributions made by such entity.

          1.5. "Aggregate Subscription" shall mean, with respect to any
Stockholder, the amount set forth opposite such Stockholder's name on Schedule I
attached hereto representing the maximum subscription price such Stockholder may
be obligated to pay to the Company for the total number of shares of Class A,
Class B or Class C Common Stock set forth opposite such Stockholder's name on
Schedule I attached hereto.

          1.6. "Annual Business Plan" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3.10(c).

          1.7. "Assistant Attorney General" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5.5(a).

-2-

1.8. "Available Subscription" shall mean, with respect to any
Stockholder as of any date, such Stockholder's Aggregate Subscription minus the
sum of the Initial Subscription, the Funded Subscriptions and the Called
Subscriptions (which have not yet been funded) of such Stockholder to the
Company.

          1.9. "Benefit Plan Investor" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 4.4(b).

          1.10. "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company in
office at the applicable time, as elected in accordance with the provisions of
the Certificate of Incorporation and this Agreement.

          1.11. "Called Subscriptions" shall mean, with respect to any
Stockholder as of any date, an amount (not to exceed in the aggregate such
Stockholder's Available Subscription) that is required to be paid to the Company
at a date specified in a Funding Notice delivered on or prior to such date in
accordance with Section 7.2.

          1.12. "Cash Reserves" shall mean $_________ to be funded from the
Initial Subscription plus the aggregate amount of all Reserve Amounts.

          1.13. "Cause" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(d).

          1.14. "Cause Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
3.6(e).

          1.15. "Closing" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2.

          1.16. "Closing Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2.

          1.17. "Change of Control" shall mean, (a) with respect to GGP, GG
Properties or any successor (that would not otherwise result in a Change of
Control) ceasing to be the sole general partner of GGP, or (b) with respect to
GG Properties, any of the following: (i) any Person, other than the Bucksbaum
Family or any Stockholder becoming the beneficial owner of (x) more than 25% of
the GG Stock (assuming the Bucksbaum Family has converted all of their operating
partnership units in GGP into GG Stock) and (y) more than 110% of the GG Stock
beneficially owned by the Bucksbaum Family (assuming the Bucksbaum Family has
converted all of their operating partnership units in GGP into GG Stock); (ii)
the sale or transfer (other than by way

-3-

of merger or any other transaction in which GG Properties' stockholders receive
interests in a successor entity) of all or substantially all of GG Properties'
interests in its properties in a single transaction or a series of related
transactions; (iii) the merger of GGP or GG Properties and another Person and,
within eighteen (18) months after such merger, a majority of the Persons who
were officers (holding a position of executive vice president or higher or
having the responsibilities of any such positions) of GG Properties 90 days
prior to such merger are no longer employed by GG Properties or the survivor in
the merger (for reasons other than death or disability) in the same or a senior
position, or with the same or more senior responsibilities, as prior to the
merger; (iv) during any period of two consecutive calendar years, individuals
who at the beginning of such period constituted the board of directors of GG
Properties (together with any new directors whose election or nomination for
election was approved by a vote of a majority of the directors (or by a
nominating committee of the board of directors) then still in office, who either
were directors at the beginning of such period or whose election or nomination
for election was previously so approved) cease for any reason to constitute a
majority of the directors of GG Properties or its successor by merger or
otherwise then in office or (v) the taking of any action, including the filing
of a petition, with respect to (x) an assignment for the benefit of creditors of
GGP or GG Properties, (y) the bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization,
dissolution or any similar occurrence of GGP or GG Properties or (z) a
liquidation or any other occurrence that might result in the termination of GGP
or GG Properties (other than in connection with a merger or other transaction in
which GG Properties' stockholders receive interests in a successor entity) which
action, if taken by someone other than GGP or GG Properties has not been
discharged within sixty (60) days. For purposes of this Section 1.16, the term
"Bucksbaum Family" shall mean Matthew Bucksbaum, his spouse, children,
descendants and trusts for the benefit of any of them and the spouse, children,
descendants and estate of Martin Bucksbaum and any trusts for the benefit of any
of them.

          1.18. "Class A Directors" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
3.2(a).

          1.19. "Class A Group" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
8.1(a).

          1.20. "Class A Minimum Investment" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 6.4(a).

-4-

1.21. "Class A Stockholders" shall mean the holders of Class A Common
Stock.

          1.22. "Class B Directors" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
3.2(a).

          1.23. "Class B Group" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
8.1(a).

          1.24. "Class B Minimum Investment" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 6.4(b).

          1.25. "Class B Stockholders" shall mean the holders of Class B Common
Stock.

          1.26. "Class C Stockholders" shall mean the holders of Class C Common
Stock.

          1.27. "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
from time to time, or any corresponding provisions of succeeding law.

          1.28. "Company Assets" shall mean all right, title and interest of the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries in and to all or any portion of the assets of
the Company and such Subsidiaries and any property (real or personal) or estate
acquired in exchange therefor or in connection therewith.

          1.29. "Company FFO" as defined on Exhibit A hereto.

          1.30. "Cure Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
3.6(e).

          1.31. "Defaulting Stockholder" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 7.4.

          1.32. "Development Manager" shall mean GGP, General Growth Management,
Inc., a Delaware corporation, or another Affiliate of GGP designated by GGP to
act as the development manager for the Company or one or more of its
Subsidiaries pursuant to Section 3.6(b).

          1.33. "Dissolution Commencement Notice" shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 8.1(a).

          1.34. "Dissolution Purchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 8.1(c).

-5-

1.35. "Dissolution Trigger Date" shall mean the earlier of (i) the
date on which a Change of Control has occurred and (ii) the date that is four
years after the Homart Closing Date.

          1.36. "Dissolution Value of the Company" shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 8.1(c).

          1.37. "Dissolution Value of a Property" shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 8.1(f).

          1.38. "Distributee" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
8.1(f).

          1.39. "Electing Class" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
3.2(b).

          1.40. "ERISA" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(b).

          1.41. "Exchange Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
5.1(b).

          1.42. "Exchange Amount Payment Notice" shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 5.2.

          1.43. "Exchange Election Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5.1(a).

          1.44. "Exchange Trigger Date" shall mean the earlier to occur of (i)
the date that is, two years after the Homart Closing Date, (ii) the date on
which an Organic Change occurs and (iii) the date on which all of the
Stockholders Aggregate Subscriptions were required to have been fully paid to
the Company pursuant to Sections 2.1, 7.1 and 7.2.

          1.45. "Exchanging Stockholder" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5.1(a)

          1.46. "Existing Lender Arrangements" shall have the meaning set forth
in Section 2.3(h).

          1.47. "Expenses" for a given period of time shall mean a sum equal to
the aggregate of expenses, charges and costs actually paid or required to be
paid during such period of time in connection with the business of the Company
or the properties owned by the Company or any wholly-owned Subsidiary of the
Company including, without limitation:

-6-

(a) expenses, costs, fees and charges in connection with the
               ownership, operation, management or leasing of the Company's
               properties, including without limitation, all fees and
               reimbursement amounts payable pursuant to Section 3.6(b);

                    (b) expenses, costs and charges in connection with the
               repair, maintenance, replacement, alteration or addition or
               capital improvement to any property owned by the Company or a
               wholly-owned Subsidiary, including any casualty or condemnation
               losses to the extent that such losses are not reimbursed during
               such period by any third party responsible therefor or through
               insurance maintained by the Company;

                    (c) all payments of scheduled amortization of principal,
               interest, points or fees on, or hedging costs associated with,
               the mortgage loans or other loans to the Company or its
               wholly-owned Subsidiaries, including upon any refinancing
               thereof;

                    (d) all sales, payroll, real estate, personal property,
               occupancy and other excise, income, franchise, property,
               privilege or similar taxes and assessments imposed upon the
               Company, any wholly-owned Subsidiary, or any of their properties;

                    (e) utility costs and deposits and other costs and deposits
               required to obtain or lease any service or equipment relating to
               the Company, any property owned by the Company or a wholly-owned
               Subsidiary;

                    (f) leasing commissions and expenditures required to be made
               in connection with any lease covering space in or at any property
               owned by the Company or a wholly-owned Subsidiary, including
               tenant improvements, tenant allowances and payments, costs
               incurred in connection with the Company's assuming a tenant's
               lease obligations with respect to other real property and costs
               incurred in connection with the Company's exercise of a right to
               "take-back" space in a property owned by the Company or a wholly-
               owned Subsidiary;

-7-

(g) the Reserve Amount;

                    (h) the fees and expenses of investment bankers, attorneys,
               accountants, architects, engineers, appraisers and other
               professionals retained by or on behalf of the Company in
               accordance with the terms hereof (other than such fees and
               expenses that are referred to in Section 4.5(b));

                    (i) any liabilities for which the Special Reserve has been
               established unless paid from the Special Reserve; and

                    (j) all other costs and expenses of the Company incurred in
               accordance with this Agreement or as determined by the Board.

                    Notwithstanding the foregoing, there shall, however, be
excluded from Expenses:

                    (1) all non-cash items such as depreciation and
amortization;

                    (2) amounts distributed as dividends pursuant to this
Agreement;

                    (3) all payments and expenses taken into account in
determining Net Disposition Proceeds;

                    (4) any expense, cost or charge enumerated in clauses (a)
through (j) above incurred in connection with any of the Properties Currently
Under Development or the Planned Expansion or Renovation Programs which are
included within the budgets therefor prior to completion of such properties,
expansions or renovations; and

                    (5) any expense, cost or charge enumerated in clauses (a)
through (j) above (other than clause (g)) to the extent such expense, cost or
charge was paid from Cash Reserves.

          1.48. "Commitment" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(g).

          1.49. "FTC" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.5(a).

-8-

1.50. "Funded Subscription" shall mean, with respect to any
Stockholder as of any date, such Stockholder's Initial Subscription plus all
Additional Subscription Payments which have actually been paid to the Company on
or before such date pursuant to Section 7.1 or 7.2(b).

          1.51. "Funding Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
7.2(b).

          1.52. "GCL" shall mean the Delaware General Corporation Law, as
amended from time to time.

          1.53. "General Growth Chairman" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3.7(a).

          1.54. "General Growth FFO" as defined on Exhibit B hereto.

          1.55. "General Growth Officers" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3.6(a).

          1.56. "General Growth Share Closing Price" on any date shall mean,
with respect to the GG Stock, the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no
such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked
prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated
transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to
trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the GG Stock is not listed or
admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported in the principal
consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on
the principal national securities exchange on which the GG Stock is listed or
admitted to trading or, if the GG Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on
any national securities exchange, the last quoted price, or if not so quoted,
the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market,
as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated
Quotations System or, if such system is no longer in use, the principal other
automated quotations system that may then be in use or, if the GG Stock' is not
quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices
as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the GG Stock as
such person is selected from time to time by the Board of Directors of GG
Properties.

          1.57. "GG Stock" shall mean the common stock, par value $.10 per
share, of GG Properties.

-9-

1.58. "Homart Assets" shall mean the real estate and other assets
acquired either directly, or indirectly through the investment in and purchase
of the Stock, and the other assets purchased pursuant to the Homart Stock
Purchase Agreement.

          1.59. "Homart Closing Date" shall have the meaning assigned to the
term "Closing Date" in the Stock Purchase Agreement.

          1.60. "Homart Stock Purchase Agreement" shall mean, collectively, the
Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 16, 1995 (the
"Stock Purchase Agreement"), between Sears, Roebuck and Co., Homart Development
Co., Homart Newco One, Inc. and the Company; the Real Estate Purchase Agreement
dated as of July 31, 1995, as amended as of October 16, 1995, by and among the
Company, Homart Development Co. and Sears, Roebuck and Co.; and all of the
related documents entered into in connection with such agreements in each case
as subsequently amended or supplemented through the date hereof.

          1.61. "HSR" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.5(a).

          1.62. "Initial Subscription" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 2.1.

          1.63. "Investment Company Act" shall mean the Investment Company Act
of 1940, as the same may be amended from time to time.

          1.64. "IRS" shall mean the Internal Revenue Service.

          1.65. "Management Transfer Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth
in Section 2.3(e).

          1.66. "Material Adverse Change" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 8.1(d).

          1.67. "Measurement Period" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
5.1 (a).

          1.68. "Natick Mall Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 2.3(d).

          1.69. "Net Disposition Proceeds" shall mean proceeds from any event
that would be deemed a capital transaction in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles consistently applied, including without

-10-

limitation, sales of real or personal property, condemnations and conveyances in
lieu thereof, damage recoveries, receipts of insurance proceeds (other than rent
insurance proceeds), or borrowings, net of (i) the expenses or capital
expenditures of the Company and its wholly owned Subsidiaries associated with
such transaction (including the portion of any insurance proceeds or
condemnation award applied to the restoration of the affected property, and
payment or reservation for payment for the discharge of any liability arising
pursuant to such transaction), (ii) amounts required (in the Board's discretion
or, if contemplated in an approved Annual Business Plan, as set forth in such
Annual Business Plan) to establish reserves and to pay current or potential
expenses and liabilities of the Company or its Subsidiaries, (iii) amounts used
or reserved (in the Board's discretion or, if contemplated in an approved Annual
Business Plan, as set forth in such Annual Business Plan) to repay indebtedness
of the Company or its Subsidiaries and (iv) amounts used or reserved (in the
Board's discretion or, if contemplated in an approved Annual Business Plan, as
set forth in such Annual Business Plan) to fund the estimated equity
requirements for the Properties Currently Under Development and for any
expansions or renovations of the Company Assets; provided that Net Disposition
Proceeds shall include proceeds from the sale, refinancing or other disposition
of a Company Asset held by a Subsidiary that is not wholly owned by the Company
only to the extent distributed to the Company by such Subsidiary.

          1.70. "Net Taxable Income" for any taxable year shall mean either (a),
the Company's "real estate investment trust taxable income" as defined in
Section 857(b)(2) of the Code for such year, or (b) the Company's real estate
investment trust taxable income (as determined by excluding net capital gain and
computing the deduction for dividends paid without regard to capital gains
dividends) and the excess of the Company's net capital gains over the deduction
for dividends paid determined with reference to capital gains dividends only
(all as defined in Section 857(b)(3) of the Code) for such year, whichever would
produce a lower amount of federal income tax.

          1.71. "Non-Defaulting Stockholder" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 7.4.

          1.72. "Non-Funding Stockholder" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 2.5(c).

          1.73. "Offer" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.1(c).

-11-

1.74. "Offer Effective Date" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 8.1(c).

          1.75. "Operating Cash Flow" for any given period of time means the
excess, if any, of (i) the Receipts for such period of time minus (ii) the
Expenses for such period of time.

          1.76. "Organic Change" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
5.7.

          1.77. "Person" shall mean an individual, corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or any
agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity that may be treated
as a person under applicable law.

          1.78. "Plan Asset Regulations" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 4.4(b).

          1.79. "Planned Expansion or Renovation Programs" shall mean the
expansion or renovation programs for certain of the Company's Assets as more
particularly described on Schedule II hereto.

          1.80. "Properties Currently Under Development" shall mean those
certain Company Assets listed on Schedule III hereto.

          1.81. "Property Manager" shall mean GGP, General Growth Management,
Inc., a Delaware corporation, or another Affiliate of GGP designated by GGP to
act as the property manager for the Company or one or more of the Subsidiaries
pursuant to Section.3.6(b).

          1.82. "Proportionate Share" shall mean, with respect to any
Stockholder or any number of shares of Common Stock being exchanged pursuant to
Section 5.1(a), a fraction, the numerator of which is the total number of shares
of Common Stock owned by such Stockholder or being so exchanged, as the case may
be, and the denominator of which is the total number of shares of Common Stock
owned by all of the Stockholders.

          1.83. "Receipts" shall mean for any given period of time, a sum equal
to the aggregate of all cash amounts actually received by or unconditionally
made available to the Company or the Company's wholly-owned Subsidiaries from or
in respect of all sources, including without limitation:

-12-

(a) all cash actually received by the Company from
               Subsidiaries that are not wholly-owned by the Company;

                    (b) all rents, percentage rent, rent settlements, expense
               reimbursements and other charges received from tenants and other
               occupants of the Company's properties;

                    (c) proceeds of rent insurance and business interruption
               insurance;

                    (d) all utility or other deposits returned to the Company;

                    (e) interest, if any, earned on tenant's security deposits
               or escrows to the extent unconditionally retained and security
               deposits to the extent applied pursuant to the provisions of the
               applicable leases;

                    (f) the amount of any net reduction of Cash Reserves, other
               than to pay Expenses;

                    (g) any Special Reserve amounts used to pay Expenses; and

                    (h) any income items (as defined in accordance with GAAP)
               received by the Company from any other source and not included in
               (a) through (g) above.

               Notwithstanding the foregoing, Receipts shall not include (1) any
amounts received by the Company on account of the issuance or sale of any
securities, including without limitation the Stockholders' Aggregate
Subscription, (2) any tenant's security deposit and interest thereon, if any, as
long as the Company has a contingent legal obligation to return that deposit or
such interest thereon, (3) any amounts included in the calculation of Net
Disposition Proceeds, (4) any amounts received by the Company in connection with
any of the Properties Currently Under Development or the Planned Expansion or
Renovation Programs prior to completion of such properties, expansions or
renovations and (5) any Special Reserve amounts other than those referred to in
(g) above.

          1.84. "Relevant Trade Area" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 4.6(a).

-13-

1.85. "Reserve Amount" shall mean for any given period of time an
amount or amounts to be held from Receipts after payment of Expenses (other than
the Reserve Amount) as part of the Cash Reserves and which shall be used for the
payment of capital improvements for the properties of the Company and its
wholly-owned Subsidiaries (such as major repairs or replacements to the roofs or
parking lots) or such other items as may be determined from time to time by the
Board. Special Reserve amounts shall not be treated as Reserve Amounts.

          1.86. "Response Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
8.1(d).

          1.87. "Rules" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.5(a).

          1.88. "Serial Transferee" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
6.4(b).

          1.89. "Serial Transferor" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
6.4(b).

          1.90. "Significant Company Assets" shall mean those Company Assets
specified on Exhibit C, and such other Company Assets as the Board may designate
as such from time to time.

          1.91. "Special Reserve" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
4.5(d).

          1.92. "Sublease" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(1).

          1.93. "Subsidiaries" shall mean, from and after the Homart Closing
Date, Homart Newco One, Inc., and any successor thereto and any other direct or
indirect corporate, partnership or other subsidiary of the Company whether or
not wholly owned by the Company and a "Subsidiary" shall mean any one of them.

          1.94. "Ten Day Average General Growth Share Closing Price" shall mean
the average of the General Growth Share Closing Prices for each of the ten
Trading Days immediately preceding (i) for purposes of Article V, the date of
any Exchange Election Notice delivered by a Stockholder pursuant to Section 5.1
hereof or (ii) for purposes of Section 4.7(c), the last day of the period of any
report delivered to a Stockholder pursuant to such Section.

-14-

1.95. "33 Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from
time to time.

          1.96. "Trading Day" shall mean a day on which the principal national
securities exchange on which the GG Stock is listed or admitted to trading is
open for the transaction of business or, if the GG Stock is not listed or
admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, shall mean any day
other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the
State of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to
close.

          1.97. "Transfer" shall mean to transfer, sell, assign, pledge,
hypothecate, give, create a security interest in or lien on, place in trust
(voting or otherwise), transfer by operation of law (other than by way of a
merger or consolidation of the Company) or in any other way encumber or dispose
of, directly or indirectly and whether or not voluntarily, any Common Stock.

          1.98. "Transferee" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1.

          For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly
provided or unless the context otherwise requires:

          (a) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of
similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular
Article, Section or other subdivision;

          (b) the words "including" and "include" and other words of similar
import shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation"; and

          (c) any capitalized term used in any Schedule to this Agreement but
not defined in such Schedule shall have the meaning assigned to such term in
this Agreement or in another Schedule to this Agreement.

                                   ARTICLE II.

                         ACQUISITION OF SHARES; CLOSING

          2.1. Issuance and Acquisition of Shares. Subject to the terms and
conditions set forth herein, at the Closing, the Company shall sell to each of
the Stockholders, and each of the Stockholders shall acquire from the Company,
the number and class of shares of Common Stock set forth opposite such
Stockholder's name on Schedule I hereto at a

-15-

purchase price of $25,000 per share and no other shares of capital stock of the
Company shall be outstanding as of such date. The aggregate purchase price to be
paid by each of the Stockholders at the Closing pursuant to this Section 2.1 is
set forth opposite such Stockholder's name on such Schedule I and is referred to
herein as such Stockholder's "Initial Subscription." GGP shall receive a credit
against the purchase price for its Initial Subscription equal to the amount of
the earnest money deposit (plus interest accrued thereon) applied to the payment
of the purchase price under the Homart Stock Purchase Agreement.

          2.2. Closing. The closing of the purchase and sale of the Common Stock
to be issued by the Company pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof (the "Closing") shall
take place on a date to be designated in writing to the Stockholders by GGP,
which date shall be no earlier than three (3) business days prior to the
scheduled Homart Closing Date (the "Closing Date"). The Closing shall take place
at the offices of Sullivan & Cromwell, 250 Park Avenue, New York, New York, or
at such other place or places as the parties hereto may agree in writing. At the
Closing, the Company shall deliver to each Stockholder certificates evidencing
the number and class of shares of Common Stock to be issued to such Stockholder,
all registered in the name of such Stockholder, against payment to the Company
by wire transfer of immediately available federal (same day) funds in the amount
of the Initial Subscription set forth opposite such Stockholder's name on
Schedule I hereto. The Stockholders hereby agree that the funds paid to the
Company pursuant to this Section 2.1 shall be invested by the Company in an
interest bearing account at Chemical Bank in New York City until the Homart
Closing Date, at which time such funds shall be used in the manner contemplated
by this Agreement.

          2.3. Conditions to Stockholders' Obligations. The obligation of each
Stockholder to acquire the shares of Common Stock to be acquired by it as set
forth herein at the Closing is subject to the satisfaction on or prior to the
Closing Date of the following conditions:

               (a) The Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of the Company
     in effect on the Closing Date shall be in the form of Exhibits D and E,
     hereto, respectively.

               (b) The Homart Stock Purchase Agreement shall be in full force
     and effect, shall not have been amended or modified in any material respect
     without the prior written consent of the Class B Stockholder (which

-16-

consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), and no unwithdrawn notice of
     any breach (anticipatory or otherwise) thereunder shall have been given by
     any party to another party thereunder.

               (c) The conditions precedent to the closing of the transactions
     contemplated by the Homart Stock Purchase Agreement shall have been
     fulfilled or waived, or shall be reasonably likely to be fulfilled or
     waived, so that the Homart Closing Date shall be reasonably likely to occur
     within three (3) business days of the Closing Date, and, if any material
     condition precedent to the Company's obligations under the Homart Stock
     Purchase Agreement shall have been waived, the Class B Stockholder shall
     have consented in writing to such waiver, which consent shall not be
     unreasonably withheld.

               (d) GGP shall have entered into a definitive agreement with the
     Company with respect to the Natick Mall, substantially in the form of
     Exhibit F hereto (the "Natick Mall Agreement").

               (e) The Property Manager shall have entered into a definitive
     agreement with the Company with respect to the acquisition by the Property
     Manager upon the Homart Closing Date of certain employees and management
     related assets and operations, substantially in the form of Exhibit G
     hereto (the "Management Transfer Agreement").

               (f) The Company shall have obtained a commitment from Wells Fargo
     Bank for a first mortgage credit facility in an amount not less than $170
     million, such credit facility to be secured by the properties listed on
     Schedule IV hereto and scheduled to close on the Homart Closing Date, on
     terms and conditions reasonably satisfactory to the Class B Stockholder
     (the "Wells Fargo Financing Commitment").

               (g) The Company shall have obtained commitments from certain
     lenders listed on Schedule V hereto to expand their existing loan
     facilities that are secured by certain properties listed on Schedule V to
     amounts no less than the amounts set forth on Schedule V for such lender
     and corresponding property, and scheduled to close on the Homart Closing
     Date, on terms and conditions reasonably satisfactory to the Class B
     Stockholder (the "Loan Expansion Commitments", and together with the Wells
     Fargo Financing Commitment, the "Financing Commitment").

-17-

(h) The Company shall have obtained written consents from lenders
     that have outstanding loans secured by certain of the properties to the
     transactions contemplated in the Homart Stock Purchase Agreement on terms
     and conditions reasonably satisfactory to the Class B Stockholder (the
     "Existing Lender Arrangements"), or such consents shall not be required,
     from the lenders under existing indebtedness encumbering the properties
     identified on Schedule VI.

               (i) The Company's representations and warranties contained herein
     shall have been true and correct in all material respects when made and
     shall be true and correct in all material respects on the Closing Date and
     the Company shall have complied with all of its covenants and agreements to
     be performed by the Company on or before the Closing Date.

               (j) Each Stockholder shall have funded its Initial Subscription
     hereunder unless either (1) GGP shall have funded any shortfall or (2)
     replacement funds shall have been obtained on terms and conditions
     reasonably acceptable to each Stockholder that is not in breach of its
     obligation to fund its Initial Subscription.

               (k) The Company shall have prepared, and NYSCRF shall have
     approved, an operating and capital budget for fiscal year 1996.

               (l) The Company and GGP Management, Inc. shall have entered into
     a Sublease Agreement (the "Sublease"), substantially in the form of Exhibit
     H hereto.

               (m) Each Stockholder shall have received a certificate signed on
     behalf of GGP by the chief executive officer of the general partner in GGP
     to the effect that (1) all of the conditions set forth in this Section 2.3
     (other than those set forth in clauses (f), (g) and (h) have been
     satisfied, (2) the Homart Closing Date is reasonably likely to occur within
     three (3) business days of the Closing and (3) the conditions set forth in
     Sections 2.3 (f), (g) and (h) will be satisfied on or prior to the Homart
     Closing Date.

               (n) Each Stockholder shall have received an opinion of counsel to
     the Company with respect to the incorporation and good standing of the
     Company and the authorization and issuance of the Common Stock being
     delivered on the Closing Date.

-18-

2.4. Merger of Homart Newco One, Inc. into the Company: Issuance of
Preferred Stock. (a) The Stockholders hereby acknowledge and agree that promptly
following the Homart Closing Date, the Company will cause Homart Newco One, Inc.
to be merged into the Company.

          (b) The Stockholders also hereby acknowledge and agree that promptly
after the Homart Closing Date the Company will issue up to one hundred twenty
(120) shares of its preferred stock in the manner and having such terms as shall
be determined by the Board.

          2.5. Termination. (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this Agreement, this Agreement may be terminated at any time before
the Closing:

                    (i) by the mutual written consent of GGP and NYSCRF; or

                    (ii) by GGP or NYSCRF if the Closing shall not have occurred
          on or before January 31, 1996.

          (b) In the event of termination pursuant to this Section 2.5, this
Agreement shall become null and void and of no further force or effect, with no
liability on the part of any party hereto, or their directors, officers, agents,
representatives or stockholders, except for the liability of a party for breach
of this Agreement and except as provided in clause (c) below.

          (c) If this Agreement shall be terminated pursuant to Section
2.5(a)(ii) because (1) the condition set forth in Section 2.3 (j) has not been
satisfied due to the breach by any Stockholder (a "Non-Funding Stockholder") of
its obligation to fund its Initial Subscription pursuant to Section 2.1 or (2)
the conditions set forth in Sections 2.3(d), (e), (i) and (1) have not been
satisfied due to the failure by GGP or its Affiliate to satisfy such conditions,
then, in addition to any other remedy available at law or in equity, (A) in the
case of clause (1) above, any Non-Funding Stockholder shall not, and each
Non-Funding Stockholder agrees not to, and (B) in the case of clause (2) above,
neither GGP nor any of its Affiliates shall, and each of GGP and its Affiliates
agree not to, acquire, directly or indirectly, all or any portion of the Homart
Assets for a period of eighteen (18) months following the date this Agreement is
so terminated. Nothing in the foregoing shall be deemed to preclude or limit any
other Stockholder, other than a Non-Funding Stockholder, in the case of clause
(1), or GGP and its Affiliates, in the case of clause (2), from

-19-

acquiring all or any portion of the Homart Assets if this Agreement shall be
terminated as described in the preceding sentence.

                                  ARTICLE III.

                         GOVERNANCE; BOARD OF DIRECTORS

          3.1. Action by Stockholders to Effectuate this Agreement. Each
Stockholder agrees to take all actions necessary to carry out and effectuate the
provisions of this Agreement, including to vote its shares of Common Stock (to
the extent it has voting rights) in a manner consistent with this Agreement and
to cause any director elected by it (if it has the right to elect directors) to
take such actions as are required to be taken by this Agreement.

          3.2. Classes of Common Stock: Number of Directors: Voting Rights.

          (a) The Stockholders hereby acknowledge and agree that, except as
otherwise provided herein, (i) the Company shall have three classes of Common
Stock: Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and Class C Common Stock, (ii)
the shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock shall have voting
rights and shall each be voted as a separate class, with each share of Common
Stock entitled to one vote per share and all resolutions of the Class to be
adopted by a vote of a majority of the shares of the Class voted, (iii) the
shares of Class C Common Stock shall have no voting rights except as may be set
forth in this Agreement and except as may be required under the GCL
notwithstanding a provision to the contrary in this Agreement or the Company's
Certificate of Incorporation, any such voting rights to be exercised as a
separate class, with each share of Class C Common Stock entitled to one vote per
share, (iv) the Board of Directors of the Company shall consist of six
directors, (v) the shares of Class A Common Stock shall have the right to elect
three directors to the Board (the "Class A Directors"), with such directors to
be elected by a majority of the shares voted, and (vi) the shares of Class B
Common Stock shall have the right to elect three directors to the Board (the
"Class B Directors"), with such directors to be elected by a majority of the
shares voted; provided, however, that if any holder of Class A Common Stock or
Class B Common Stock shall be a Defaulting Stockholder, all of the shares of
such Class, whether or not held by the Defaulting Stockholder, shall
automatically become shares of Class C Common Stock. The Stockholders agree
that, so long as both Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock is
outstanding, the Class A Directors shall

-20-

have the right and authority to designate all of the officers and directors of
the Subsidiaries, subject to the approval of the Class B Directors, which
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.

          (b) If at any time shares of either Class A Common Stock or Class B
Common Stock (but not both) shall be outstanding, then (i) the Board of
Directors shall consist of seven directors, at least a majority of which shall
be comprised of Persons independent of the holder or holders of the Electing
Class; (ii) the remaining class of Common Stock entitled to vote for directors
(the "Electing Class") shall be entitled to elect six of the directors of the
Company with such directors to be elected by a majority of the shares of the
Electing Class; and (iii) the holders of Class C Common Stock shall be entitled
to elect one director with such director to be elected by a majority of the
outstanding shares of Class C Common Stock voting for this purpose as a Class,
with each share of Class C Common Stock entitled to one vote per share. For
purposes of this Agreement, (1) if the Class A Common Stock is the Electing
Class, a Person shall be deemed to be independent if such Person is not an
Affiliate or employee of GG Properties, GGP or any of their successors or any of
their Affiliates, provided, however, that no director shall be deemed not to
qualify as independent solely because such director is a director of GG
Properties, (2) if the Class B Common Stock is the Electing Class, a Person
shall be deemed to be independent if such Person is not an Affiliate or
employee of any holder of Class B Common Stock or any of its Affiliates, (3) so
long as there is an Electing Class, a director elected by the holders of Class C
Common Stock shall be deemed an independent director and (4) if there is no
Electing Class, a Person shall be deemed to be independent if such Person is not
an Affiliate or employee of any holder of Class C Common Stock or any of its
Affiliates.

          (c) If at any time the shares of neither Class A Common Stock nor
Class B Common Stock shall be outstanding, then (i) the Board of Directors shall
consist of seven directors, at least a majority of which shall be comprised of
Persons independent of the holder or holders of the Class C Common Stock and
(ii) the shares of Class C Common Stock shall be entitled to equal voting rights
and powers and shall be voted together as a single class with respect to all
matters on which stockholders may be entitled to vote (including the election of
directors), with each share of Class C Common Stock entitled to one vote per
share.

          (d) Directors on the Board shall not receive compensation unless such
directors are independent directors

-21-

elected pursuant to clause (b) or (c) above in which case such independent
directors may be paid reasonable and customary compensation as determined by the
Board. Directors shall be entitled to indemnification from the Company as
provided in the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws.

          3.3. Initial Directors. To carry out the provisions of Section 3.2,
simultaneously with, or immediately following the Closing, GGP, as the sole
Class A Stockholder, and NYSCRF, as the sole Class B Stockholder, hereby elects
the following designated persons as Class A Directors and Class B Directors,
respectively, to serve until the first annual meeting of the Stockholders and
until each such director's successor has been elected and qualified to be
effective as of the Closing Date.

     Class A Directors   Matthew Bucksbaum
                         Robert A. Michaels
                         John Bucksbaum

     Class B Directors   Alan C. Sullivan
                         Martin S. Levine
                         Frank L. Sullivan, Jr.

          3.4. Subsequent Election of Directors. (a) Except as otherwise
provided herein, meetings of any class of stockholders entitled to vote for the
election of directors' may be convened for the purpose of electing the directors
of such class, or for the removal or replacement of such directors, or such
election, removal or replacement may be accomplished by written consent of
stockholders of the class in lieu of a meeting or otherwise.

          (b) Any Class A Director shall also be a director or an executive
officer of GG Properties holding the office of executive vice president or
higher.

          3.5. Removal and Replacement of Directors. The Stockholders agree
that, except as otherwise provided herein, no director may be removed from
office except by a vote of the shares of the class of Common Stock which elected
such director. The Stockholders also agree that the shares of the class of
Common Stock which elected such director shall have the exclusive right, with or
without cause, to vote for the removal of such director from the Board and to
nominate and elect a replacement director therefor.

          3.6. Officers; Management; Dissolution in the Event of Cause. (a)
Subject to the last sentence of Section

-22-

3.2(a), the officers of the Company and the Subsidiaries shall consist of the
Persons designated by the Board, and such Persons shall serve in the offices
designated by the Board until their respective successors are duly appointed by
the Board. Provided both Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock is
outstanding, the Class A Stockholders and the Class B Stockholders agree to
cause the Class A Directors and Class B Directors, if any, to designate the
Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial
Officer, Treasurer and Secretary of GG Properties to serve ex officio as the
Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial
Officer, Treasurer and Secretary of the Company and of the Subsidiaries (the
"General Growth Officers"). So long as the General Growth Officers are officers
of the Company, the Class A Stockholders and the Class B Stockholders agree to
cause the Class A Directors and Class B Directors to designate certain persons
identified by any of the General Growth Officers as vice presidents, assistant
treasurers or assistant secretaries of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries.

          (b) The officers of the Company or of any Subsidiary shall be
authorized to manage the business and affairs of the Company and its
Subsidiaries subject to the direction and supervision of the Board. The General
Growth Officers, so long as they shall serve as the management of the Company,
shall manage the Company and each of the properties owned by the Company and its
Subsidiaries in a manner substantially consistent with their management of GGP
and GG Properties. Without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing,
the officers of the Company shall manage the day to day operations of the
Company's properties and those of its Subsidiaries in accordance with the
policies and other matters set forth on Schedule VII. All costs and expenses
incurred in connection with the management of the Company and the ownership,
operation, management and development of the Company's properties and those of
its Subsidiaries shall be paid by the Company, or if paid by GGP or any of its
Affiliates, the Company shall reimburse GGP or its Affiliate therefor; provided,
however, that for so long as the General Growth Officers are the officers of the
Company, the costs and expenses listed on Schedule IX hereto shall be paid by
GGP or its Affiliates and shall not be charged to the Company or paid from
Company assets. So long as the General Growth Officers are the officers of the
Company, the Company shall pay to GGP or its Affiliates (as provided below) the
fees and reimbursable amounts in the amounts and in the manner set forth on
Schedule X. Unless otherwise approved by the Board, and except as may otherwise
be provided in this Agreement, no

-23-

other fee or compensation shall be paid by the Company to GGP, GG Properties or
any of their Affiliates in connection with the management of the Company, its
properties and the properties of its Subsidiaries. So long as the General Growth
Officers are the officers of the Company, the General Growth Officers shall be
authorized to enter into one or more agreements with GGP and any of its
Affiliates to delegate all or any portion of the managerial responsibilities of
the General Growth Officers to such entities; provided that, (i) the General
Growth Officers shall not be relieved of their obligation to manage the Company
or any other obligation or responsibility under this Agreement by reason of such
delegation, (ii) the Company shall not incur any additional cost by reason of
such delegation and (iii) GGP and any such Affiliate shall be obligated to carry
out their delegated managerial responsibilities in accordance with the policies
set forth on Schedule VII to the extent applicable. Any such agreement entered
into by the Company and GGP or any of its Affiliates may provide that all or any
portion of the fees and reimbursable amounts set forth on Schedule X be paid to
an Affiliate of GGP, rather than to GGP, and may contain customary indemnities
from the Company to GGP and such Affiliate against claims, losses, liabilities,
costs and expenses arising out of the operation or management of the Company's
properties, other than such claims, losses, liabilities, costs and expenses
caused by the gross negligence or wilful misconduct of GGP or such Affiliate.
Any such agreement shall be terminable by the Company immediately following the
General Growth Officers ceasing to serve as the Company's management or
otherwise as required to effectuate the terms of this Agreement. Unless
otherwise approved by the Board, the Company and its wholly-owned Subsidiaries
shall not have any employees.

          (c) The Class B Directors shall have the right, in their sole
discretion, to cause the Company to distribute certain of the Company's
properties to the Distributee in the manner described in Section 8.1(f) in the
event that Cause exists. If the Class B Directors elect to so cause the Company
to distribute certain of its properties, (i) the Class B Stockholders shall be
considered the Offeror and the Class A and Class C Stockholders shall be
considered the Offeree for purposes of Section 8.1(f), (ii) the first
distribution of properties shall occur as soon as practicable in the tax year in
which the election is made and (iii) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
Section 8.1(f), the Offeror shall have the right to select the first property.

-24-

(d) For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean, (i) the
failure of the General Growth Officers to submit an Annual Business Plan to the
Board as provided in Section 3.10(c) hereof, (ii) the failure of the General
Growth Officers to obtain prior Board approval (as part of an approved Annual
Business Plan or otherwise) for any of the matters enumerated in Section
3.10(d), (iii) the General Growth Officers taking or causing the Company to take
any action materially in contravention of an approved Annual Business Plan, (iv)
a wilful and material violation by GGP or GG Properties of the provisions of
Section 4.6 hereof or (v) the engaging by any General Growth Officer, GGP, GG
Properties, the Property Manager, if any, or the Development Manager, if any, in
wilful misconduct, including, without limitation, fraud, embezzlement or theft,
which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company; provided that
Cause shall not be deemed to exist until the procedures set forth in Section
3.6(e) have been complied with.

          (e) If the Class B Stockholders or Class B Directors believe that an
event giving rise to Cause has occurred, the Class B Stockholders or Class B
Directors shall deliver a notice (the "Cause Notice") to the General Growth
Officers setting forth with particularity the event giving rise to Cause and the
applicable clause of Section 3.6(d). If the event giving rise to Cause is one
enumerated in Section 3.6(d)(i), (ii) or (iii), the General Growth Officers
shall have fifteen (15) days from the date of the delivery of such notice to
cure the action or failure to act (or if such action or failure to act, or
consequence of such action or failure to act, is curable but is of such a nature
that it cannot be cured within such fifteen (15) day period, the General Growth
Officers shall commence such cure and proceed diligently to complete the curing
thereof as promptly as practicable). The General Growth Officers shall promptly,
and, in any event, by the end of the fifteen (15) day cure period, notify (the
"Cure Notice") the Class B Stockholders and the Class B Directors that either
(i) the event giving rise to Cause has been cured and specifying the actions
taken with respect thereof or (ii) the event giving rise to Cause is curable but
cannot be cured within fifteen (15) days and specifying the actions that have
been taken and will be taken in respect thereof. Unless the Class B Stockholders
or Class B Directors reasonably object in writing to the Cure Notice within ten
(10) days of delivery thereof, the event giving rise to Cause shall be deemed to
be cured. If GGP wishes to contest the existence of Cause, the General Growth
Officers shall within ten (10) days of receipt of the Cause Notice, or, if the
Class B Stockholders or Class B Directors have reasonably objected to the Cure

-25-

Notice, the Class B Stockholders or Class B Directors shall within ten (10) days
of receipt of the Cure Notice, submit the existence of Cause to arbitration
pursuant to Section 11.5 hereof. If the question of Cause has been submitted to
arbitration, Cause shall not be deemed to have occurred unless and until the
arbitrators have reached a final decision that Cause exists. If the General
Growth Officers neither submit the question of Cause to arbitration nor deliver
a Cure Notice within the fifteen (15) day period following the date of the
delivery of the Cause Notice, then Cause shall be deemed to exist on the day
immediately following such fifteen (15) day period. During any arbitration
proceeding, the General Growth Officers shall use all diligent and good faith
efforts to act or cease from acting in the manner that is the subject of the
dispute. Arbitration costs shall be charged to the losing party.

          3.7. Chairman of the Board. So long as the General Growth Officers are
officers of the Company, and provided both Class A Common Stock and Class B
Common Stock is outstanding or the holders of the Class A Common Stock are the
Electing Class, the Class A Stockholders and the Class B Stockholders agree to
cause the Class A Directors and Class B Directors to designate as the Chairman
of the Board of Directors of the Company and the Subsidiaries the director
elected by the Class A Common Stock who holds the most senior position at GG
Properties (the "General Growth Chairman").

          3.8. Committees. (a) The Board shall have the power to create
committees, including an executive committee and an audit committee, and to
delegate to such committees such powers and authority as the Board may determine
and as may then be permitted by the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and
By-Laws and the GCL; provided, however, that so long as the Board is comprised
of both Class A Directors and Class B Directors, any committee established by
the Board shall have at least one member designated by the Class A Directors and
at least one member designated by the Class B Directors unless the Board
determines otherwise.

          (b) The Class A Directors shall be exclusively entitled to designate,
remove and replace the Class A committee members and the Class B Directors shall
be exclusively entitled to designate, remove and replace the Class B committee
members.

          3.9. Certificate of Incorporation; By-Laws. Each Stockholder shall
vote all Common Stock over which it may have voting power and shall take all
other actions necessary and appropriate to ensure that the Company's Certificate
of

-26-

Incorporation and By-Laws do not at any time conflict with the provisions of
this Agreement and shall not vote to approve (or consent to the approval of) any
amendment to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws which would
be inconsistent with this Agreement.

          3.10. Actions by Directors. (a) At such times as both Class A Common
Stock and Class B Common Stock shall be outstanding, at all meetings of the
Board a quorum shall exist for the transaction of business if at least two (2)
Class A Directors and two (2) Class B Directors are present. At such times as
both Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock shall be outstanding, at all
meetings of any committee of the Board a quorum shall exist for the transaction
of business if at least one member designated by the Class A Directors and one
member designated by the Class B Directors are present, unless the Board shall
determine otherwise. At all other times (i.e., when the Board is constituted
pursuant to Section 3.2(b) or 3.2(c)) a quorum shall exist for the transaction
of business if at least a majority of directors or committee members are
present.

          (b) When action is to be taken by vote of the Board or any committee
thereof, each member of the Board or such committee shall be accorded one vote.
Except for the selection of officers of the Company and officers and directors
of the Subsidiaries as described in Section 2.2(e) above, each and every
corporate action taken by vote of the Board or any committee thereof shall be
authorized only by the affirmative vote of the majority of directors or
committee members, as the case may be, present at a duly constituted meeting at
which a quorum is present and acting throughout; provided that at such times as
both the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock shall be outstanding and
entitled to elect directors of the Company pursuant to this Agreement, at least
one Class A Director and one Class B Director (in the case of Board meetings),
or one Class A committee member and one Class B committee member (in the case of
committee meetings), has voted in favor of such action.

          (c) On or before March 1, 1996 and on or before September 15th of each
year, commencing September 15, 1996, for each Company Asset that is operating,
is then under construction or development or is in the planning stage, the
General Growth Officers will cause to be prepared and submitted to the Board for
approval a proposed annual business plan (including an annual capital budget and
operating budget and leasing guidelines to permit the execution of leases on
behalf of the Company and the

-27-

Subsidiaries without specific Board approval, which shall include figures for
minimum square foot base rental, maximum tenant improvement allowances, maximum
obligations on lease take-overs and any other leasing criteria proposed by the
General Growth Officers), such plan to be substantially in the form of the
template attached hereto as Exhibit I (each, an "Annual Business Plan"). The
proposed Annual Business Plan shall also itemize each transaction or matter
requiring approval of the Board pursuant to Section 3.10(d) (viii) below. The
General Growth Officers will also cause the Board to be provided with quarterly
updates to the Annual Business Plans. A meeting of the Board to consider an
Annual Business Plan for approval shall, unless the Board otherwise determines,
be held no sooner than 45 days following submission of the proposed Annual
Business Plan to the Board but in all cases shall be held prior to commencement
of the fiscal year to which the Annual Business Plan relates (other than with
respect to the Annual Business Plan for fiscal year 1996). Prior to such
meeting, the General Growth Officers shall make available to the Class B
Directors and their representatives and advisors such backup information with
respect to the Annual Business Plan as the Class B Directors shall reasonably
request and shall be reasonably available to consult with the Class B Directors
regarding the details of the Annual Business Plan. If the Board shall consider
for adoption a proposed Annual Business Plan for any Company Asset for any year
and shall fail to adopt it in its entirety because of disagreement as to one or
more items although the Board shall agree on other items, then the Board shall
adopt as the Annual Business Plan for such year such proposed Annual Business
Plan exclusive of the items as to which there is disagreement, provided,
however, that if there is disagreement over any item of operating expense in
such Annual Business Plan that is nondiscretionary, then the Board shall adopt
such Annual Business Plan as it relates to such nondiscretionary item of
operating expense, and provided further, however, that if there is disagreement
over any discretionary item of operating expense in such Annual Business Plan,
then the Board shall adopt such Annual Business Plan including such
discretionary item of operating expense in an amount equal to the amount
reasonably proposed for such operating expense item by management of the
Company. Expenditures for nondiscretionary items shall not be limited by amounts
set forth in an approved Annual Business Plan. "Nondiscretionary items" shall
mean items that must be paid by the Company to avoid a material adverse effect
on the business, operations or value of the Company's assets. Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, the Stockholders acknowledge and agree that
nondiscretionary items include the minimum amount of funds needed to (i) pay

-28-

and perform when due all of the Company's obligations under any notes, mortgages
and other instruments to which the Company is or shall be a party or by which it
or its assets are bound in connection with any financing, (ii) pay when due real
estate and other taxes affecting the Company Assets and insurance premiums for
the Company Assets and the Company, and (iii) comply with all laws now or
hereafter in force which shall be applicable to all or any part of the Company
Assets and the operation and management thereof (including the making of capital
expenditures required for such compliance) if the failure to comply would (A)
expose the Company, any Stockholder or any employee, agent, officer, director,
or contractor of the Company to the risk of criminal prosecution, (B) entitle
any enforcing entity to take any action which could materially and adversely
affect the business, operation or value of the Company or (C) invalidate or
impair any of the insurance maintained by the Company. Until the Annual Business
Plan for fiscal year 1996 has been prepared for and approved by the Board, the
Company shall be operated in accordance with the operating and capital budgets
referred to in Section 2.3(k).

          (d) The following matters will require approval of the Board (either
as part of an approved Annual Business Plan, as part of the operating and
capital budgets referred to in Section 2.3(k) or by separate Board action)
unless any such matters have been specifically approved pursuant to this
Agreement:

          (i) the purchase or other acquisition by the Company or any of its
     Subsidiaries of any material asset or property, but excluding purchase
     options where the cost of the option does not exceed $500,000;

          (ii) the sale, exchange or other disposition by the Company or any of
     its Subsidiaries of any Significant Company Asset;

          (iii) the development, redevelopment or expansion by the Company or
     any of its Subsidiaries of any material asset or property or any
     Significant Company Asset;

          (iv) the incurrence by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of any
     indebtedness for borrowed money or the refinancing of any indebtedness for
     borrowed money (including, without limitation, any capital lease
     obligation) in excess of $500,000 in the aggregate in any fiscal year;

-29-

(v) the pledge, encumbrance or subjecting to liens or mortgages by the
     Company or any of its Subsidiaries of any Significant Company Asset in
     connection with a financing or refinancing;

          (vi) with respect to each "Major Expense Category" (as so denominated
     in the Annual Business Plan), the expenditure by the Company or any of its
     Subsidiaries of amounts in excess of those set forth in an approved Annual
     Business Plan, unless such amounts do not exceed 105% of the total
     expenditures set forth in such Annual Business Plan for such Major Expense
     Category or are required, in the reasonable judgment of the Company's
     management, to be expended because of an emergency involving an immediate
     threat to persons or property and the Company's management is hereby
     authorized to spend such amounts without further Board action;

          (vii) the sale, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially
     all of the assets of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or the merger,
     consolidation, reorganization or other similar transaction involving the
     Company or any of its Subsidiaries with or into another Person, in any such
     case, whether in a single transaction or a series of related transactions;

          (viii) any material transaction (or amendment or modification to any
     transaction) with, involving or benefitting GGP, GG Properties or an
     Affiliate of GGP or GG Properties other than any current or future
     transaction between the Property Manager or the Development Manager, on the
     one hand, and a non-wholly owned Subsidiary, on the other hand, relating to
     the providing of property or development management services pursuant to
     which the Property Manager or Development Manager, as the case may be,
     shall be paid fees for such services equal to the fees currently being paid
     by such non-wholly-owned Subsidiary, provided that if the Board shall not
     include Class B Directors, such transaction shall be voted upon solely by
     the independent directors;

          (ix) the taking of any action, including the filing of a petition,
     with respect to (x) an assignment for the benefit of creditors of the
     Company or any Subsidiary, (y) the bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization,
     dissolution (other than a dissolution pursuant to Section 8.1) or any
     similar occurrence of the Company or any Subsidiary or (z) a
     liquidation

-30-

(other than pursuant to Section 8.1) or any other occurrence that might
     result in the termination of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;

          (x) the issuance of any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the
     Company or any of its Subsidiaries or the issuance, grant or entry into an
     agreement or arrangement providing for, options, warrants or other rights,
     interests or securities convertible into or exchangeable for any shares of
     Common Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Company or any of
     its Subsidiaries; provided, however, that (i) the Company shall not issue
     any shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock other than
     shares that have been subscribed for under this Agreement without the
     consent of all of the shares of such class in which additional shares are
     proposed to be issued, (ii) any additional issuances shall first be offered
     to the Stockholders pursuant to the provisions of Article VII hereof, and
     (iii) the Stockholders (other than any Defaulting Stockholder) shall have
     preemptive rights to acquire any additional shares of Common Stock proposed
     to be issued by the Company in addition to those offered pursuant to
     Article VII hereof;

          (xi) the determination of the amount and timing of distributions of
     Net Disposition Proceeds;

          (xii) the determination of Reserve Amounts for any fiscal year;

          (xiii) the establishment of the Company's policy with respect to the
     appropriate levels of debt capitalization of the Company;

          (xiv) the consent to any material amendments or supplements to, or the
     making of material elections or grant of waivers of material conditions or
     the enforcement of material rights under, the Homart Stock Purchase
     Agreement, the Financing Commitment and the Existing Lender Arrangements;

          (xv) the consent to any amendments or supplements to, or the making of
     elections or grant of waivers of conditions or the enforcement of rights
     under, the Natick Mall Agreement, the Management Transfer Agreement or the
     Sublease, provided, however, that in connection with any Board resolutions
     with respect to such matters, the Class A Directors shall not have the
     right to vote and the Class A Directors vote shall not be required for the
     approval of any such action;

-31-

(xvi) the engagement or retention by the Company of any property or
     development manager for any of the Company's properties or those of its
     wholly-owned Subsidiaries other than GGP, GG Properties or any of their
     Affiliates;

          (xvii) the engagement or retention by the Company of any financial
     advisor or investment banking firm for any major capital transaction or any
     legal counsel for any material litigation or Organic Change; and

          (xviii) the amendment of any of the policies set forth in Schedule VII
     hereof or any of the fees or other matters set forth in Schedule X hereof.

          (e) The Stockholders hereby approve, and the Company shall be
authorized to undertake, (i) the expansion or renovation of those properties
described on Schedule II hereto and the expenditure of funds and/or incurrence
of indebtedness in connection therewith pursuant to the expansion and renovation
budgets previously delivered to and approved by the Class B Stockholder, (ii)
the development of those properties described on Schedule III hereto and the
expenditure of funds and/or incurrence of indebtedness in connection therewith
pursuant to the development budgets previously delivered to and approved by the
Class B Stockholder, (iii) the funding and use of the Reserves as described in
Section 4.5(d) and (iv) delivery by the Board of Funding Notices to the
Stockholders permitting the Stockholders to accelerate the funding of their
Available Subscriptions as and when determined by the Board for the purposes
permitted by this Agreement.

          3.11. Meetings of the Board. (a) The Board shall meet not less
frequently than quarterly, upon notice duly given to all directors. Regular
meetings of the Board shall be held at such place as shall be determined by the
Board. Any failure to so meet shall not give rise to any presumption or
inference that the Stockholders shall have any liability for the obligations of
the Company.

          (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
Company's By-Laws or the GCL, the Board shall meet upon the request of any
director conveyed in writing to each other director, at a time no fewer than two
(2) and no more than twenty-one (21) business days after such notice is given,
and at a place as determined by the Board; provided, however, attendance at such
meeting may be by telephone or otherwise as provided in the Company's By-Laws.

-32-

3.12. Restrictions on Other Agreements. No Stockholder shall grant any
proxy or enter into or agree to be bound by any voting trust with respect to the
Common Stock, nor shall any Stockholder enter into any stockholder agreement or
arrangements of any kind (including agreements or arrangements with respect to
the acquisition, disposition or voting of shares of Common Stock) with any
Person with respect to the Common Stock, in either case, on terms inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement (whether or not such agreements and
arrangements are with other Stockholders or holders of Common Stock that are not
parties to this Agreement).

                                   ARTICLE IV.

                             OTHER CORPORATE MATTERS

          4.1. Fiscal Year; Designation of Auditors. The Company's fiscal year
shall be the calendar year. The Company's auditors shall be selected by the
Board, provided, however, that (a) such firm shall be a "Big Six" certified
public accounting firm (or any successor to any such firm) and (b) unless the
Class A Directors and Class B Directors determine otherwise, such firm shall not
be the auditors of GGP or GG Properties.

          4.2. Dividends. Subject in all cases to any applicable provisions of
the GCL, the Company shall distribute to the Stockholders at least on a
quarterly basis an amount at least equal to the Company's Operating Cash Flow
during the immediately preceding fiscal quarter, provided that the Company shall
distribute with respect to each fiscal year not less than one hundred percent
(100%) of the Company's Net Taxable Income for such fiscal year. The regular
record dates of the Company for the purpose of determining Stockholders entitled
to quarterly distributions shall be the same as the regular record dates of GG
Properties and the payment dates of the Company for regular quarterly dividends
shall be the business day immediately preceding the payment date of GG
Properties for regular quarterly dividends. GG Properties shall notify the
Company at least ten days prior to each of its regular record dates of the date
of such record date and the related payment date.

          4.3. Conduct of Business. (a) The Company shall not, directly or
indirectly, acquire any assets or businesses other than the Stock (as defined in
the Homart Stock Purchase Agreement) and the Homart Assets except in connection
with the holding, development, redevelopment, expansion, renovation, operation
and otherwise dealing with

-33-

the Homart Assets (including (i) the development of the Properties Currently
Under Development, (ii) the development of the planned regional malls listed on
Schedule XIII hereto, (iii) the development of all or a portion of the vacant
land included as part of the Homart Assets and (iv) the acquisition of land or
properties adjacent to the real property constituting the Homart Assets and
third parties' interests in the partnerships or joint ventures constituting the
Homart Assets).

          (b) The Company shall conduct its affairs in a manner that will not
cause the Company to be deemed to be, and will not make any investment which
could cause it to become, an "investment company" for purposes of the Investment
Company Act.

          4.4. Operation in Accordance with REIT Requirements and Other Matters.
(a) The Company shall operate in a manner that will enable the Company to (i)
satisfy the requirements for qualifying as a real estate investment trust under
the Code and (ii) avoid any federal income or excise tax liability and shall
file an election to be taxed as a real estate investment trust for its first
taxable year and, from and after January 31, 1996, the Company shall at all
times ensure that the Company shall have no less than 100 holders of its capital
stock.

          (b) The Company shall at all times operate, and each Stockholder shall
cause the Company to operate in a manner so that it will be treated as an
"operating company" under Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration Regulation
Section 2510.3-101 (the "Plan Asset Regulations") issued by the Department of
Labor under Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
the same may be amended from time to time ("ERISA") as long as equity
participation by Benefit Plan Investors (as defined in the Plan Asset
Regulations) is "significant," as defined therein.

          (c) The Company shall endeavor to operate and structure its
investments in a manner so as to minimize, to the extent reasonably possible and
to the extent not inconsistent with the best interests of the Company, the
amount of unrelated business taxable income recognized by Stockholders that are
pension funds or educational institutions exempt from Federal income taxes.

          4.5. Sources and Uses of Funds; Organizational Expenses;
Reorganization Expenses; Reserves. (a) On the Homart Closing Date, (i) the
Company will use the Initial Subscriptions to fund the purchase price under the
Homart Stock Purchase Agreement, to pay the organizational expenses

-34-

described in Section 4.5(b), to pay to GGP the reorganization costs described in
Section 4.5(c) and to partially fund the Reserves referred to in Section 4.5(d),
(ii) the Company and/or its Subsidiaries shall incur the indebtedness, or
refinance the existing indebtedness, to the extent contemplated in the Financing
Commitment and the Existing Lender Arrangements, and (iii) the Company or its
Subsidiaries shall close under the Natick Mall Agreement, the Management
Transfer Agreement and the Sublease.

          (b) Each Stockholder hereby acknowledges and agrees that all expenses
that are listed under the category of "Expenses Billed to Date" on Schedule XIV
hereto and amounts listed under the category of "Estimated Expenses to be
Incurred After the Closing" on Schedule XIV hereto, in each case that have been
or will be incurred by or on behalf of the Company on or prior to the Homart
Closing Date or in connection with the closing under the Homart Stock Purchase
Agreement shall be expenses of the Company and shall be paid by the Company on
or promptly following the Homart Closing Date.

          (c) On the Homart Closing Date, the Company shall pay to GGP from the
Initial Subscriptions made to the Company or from other funds available to the
Company the amount of $10,000,000.00 to reimburse GGP and its Affiliates for
various restructuring and transition costs that GGP and its Affiliates have
incurred and will continue to incur in connection with reorganizing and
combining the organization of Homart Development Co. with GGP and its Affiliates
as set forth on a schedule previously delivered to and approved by the Class B
Stockholder. Any such costs incurred in excess of $10,000,000.00 will be the
responsibility of GGP and its Affiliates, as applicable, and will not be the
responsibility of the Company.

          (d) (i) The Company shall establish and fund either on the Homart
     Closing Date or over time from the Initial Subscriptions and Funded
     Subscriptions made to the Company or from other capital resources available
     to the Company certain reserves in the specified amounts set forth on
     Schedule XV hereto (the "Special Reserves") with respect to certain
     liabilities which are estimated to be incurred by the Company through
     December 31, 1999. Any costs incurred with respect to such liabilities
     which exceed the amounts available under the Special Reserves, except for
     those liabilities set forth in clause (ii) below, will be for the account
     of the Company. Any Special Reserves that are not expended will be retained
     by the Company for other Company purposes. The Board may from time to

-35-

time reduce the amount of the Special Reserves either by making a special
     dividend to the Stockholders (which special dividend shall not be deemed to
     be a part of any dividend made pursuant to Section 4.2) or by reallocating
     Available Subscriptions for other purposes.

          (ii) The following Special Reserve liabilities represent liabilities
     due from the Company to GGP with respect to GGP obligations arising as a
     result of the Management Transfer Agreement: liabilities incurred by GGP
     for hiring bonuses to Homart employees being employed by GGP following the
     Homart Closing Date for which the Company will indemnify GGP, and reimburse
     GGP, to the extent set forth in Schedule XV, such reimbursement to be made
     at the Homart Closing Date.

          4.6. Other Activities of Stockholders. (a) Neither GGP nor GG
Properties nor any of their Affiliates shall, directly or indirectly, as an
owner, managing or general partner, majority or controlling stockholder,
consultant, joint venturer, manager or otherwise, acquire, develop, redevelop,
improve, construct or manage any regional shopping mall project, that is, in any
such case, located within the trade area (as shown in red on the maps attached
hereto as Exhibit J) of any of the mall shopping centers listed on Exhibit J
hereto (the "Relevant Trade Area"); provided, however, that nothing herein shall
prohibit or restrict GGP or GG Properties or any of their Affiliates from
owning, operating, developing, improving, expanding or managing any of the mall
shopping centers owned, operated, being developed or managed, directly or
indirectly, by any of them on the date hereof and listed on Schedule XVI hereto
and; provided further, however, that GGP, GG Properties and their Affiliates
shall have until June 30, 1996 to divest its management position at the Dutch
Square Mall located in Columbia, South Carolina, and the Southdale Mall located
in Minneapolis, Minnesota. If, as manager of the Visalia Mall located in
Visalia, California, GGP or its Affiliate engages in any active discussions with
a new department store interested in locating at such mall, GGP shall disclose
such fact to the Board, and the Class B Directors shall have the exclusive right
to determine whether a conflict exists. If the Class B Directors so determine
that a conflict exists, GGP or its Affiliate shall divest itself of its
management position with respect to the Visalia Mall as soon as practicable.

          (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 4.6(a),
neither GGP nor GG Properties shall be in breach of Section 4.6(a) if, in
connection with the

-36-

acquisition of a portfolio of three or more properties or management contracts,
GGP, GG Properties or any of their Affiliates acquires, or becomes the property
manager or development manager for, any regional shopping mall project that is
located within the Relevant Trade Area (the "Competing Asset"); provided GGP, GG
Properties or such Affiliate terminates any management position with respect to
such Competing Asset as soon as possible but no later than within one year.

          (c) Subject to Section 4.6(a) and (b), each Stockholder may engage or
invest in any other activity or venture or possess any interest therein
independently or with others. None of the Stockholders, the Company or any other
Person employed by, related to or in any way affiliated with any Stockholder or
the Company shall have any duty or obligation to disclose or offer to the
Company or any of the Stockholders, or obtain for the benefit of the Company or
any of the Stockholders, any such other activity or venture or interest therein.
None of the Company, the Stockholders, the creditors of the Company or any other
person having any interest in the Company shall have (i) any claim, right or
cause of action against any of the Stockholders or any other Person employed by,
related to or in any way affiliated with, any of the Stockholders by reason of
any direct or indirect investment or other participation, whether active or
passive, in any such activity or venture therein or (ii) any right to any such
activity or venture or interest therein or the income or profits derived
therefrom.

          4.7. Reports and Statements. (a) Not later than 45 days after the end
of each fiscal quarter (other than the fourth quarter), the Company shall
prepare (or cause to be prepared) and mail to each Stockholder an unaudited
report (prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles)
setting forth as of the end of such fiscal quarter:

          (i) a balance sheet of the Company and of the Subsidiaries on a
     consolidated basis; and

          (ii) an income statement for such fiscal quarter of the Company and of
     the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

          (b) Not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, the
Company shall prepare (or cause to be prepared) and shall mail to each
Stockholder, a report setting forth as of the end of such fiscal year:

-37-

(i) a balance sheet of the Company and of the Subsidiaries on a
     consolidated basis (which will include appropriate footnote disclosure);

          (ii) an income statement for such fiscal year of the Company and of
     the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis;

          (iii) a statement of cash flows for such fiscal year of the Company
     and of the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; and

          (iv) a statement of changes in stockholders' equity for such fiscal
     year for the Company and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

The annual financial statements referred to above shall be accompanied by a
report of the Company's independent certified public accountants stating that an
audit of such financial statements has been made in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards, stating the opinion of the accountants in respect
of the financial statements and the accounting principles and practices
reflected therein and as to the consistency of the application of the accounting
principles, and identifying any matters to which the accountants take exception
and stating, to the extent practicable, the effect of each such exception on
such financial statements. The Company shall provide to any Stockholder such
supporting schedules and other data as may from time to time be reasonably
requested by such Stockholder relating to the presentation of the Company's
financial statements on a consolidated basis.

          (c) Commencing with the first anniversary of this Agreement, not later
than 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each
fiscal year, and not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, the
Company shall prepare (or cause to be prepared) and mail to each holder of Class
B Common Stock and Class C Common Stock a report setting forth in reasonable
detail a calculation of (i) the General Growth FFO and (ii) the Company's FFO,
and (iii) the Exchange Amount as if such holder had delivered an Exchange
Election Notice with respect to all of its exchangeable shares of Common Stock
on the day immediately following the last day of the period of such report.

          (d) Not later than 45 days after the end of each of the first three
fiscal quarters of each fiscal year, the Company shall prepare (or cause to be
prepared) and mail to each Stockholder a report setting forth in reasonable
detail a calculation of the Company's Operating Cash Flow for the

-38-

immediately preceding quarter together with a comparison of the (i) Operating
Cash Flow for the same fiscal quarter in the prior year and (ii) budgeted
Operating Cash Flow for the quarter, based upon the Annual Business Plan
approved by the Board covering such fiscal quarter.

          (e) Not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, the
Company shall prepare (or cause to be prepared) and mail to each Stockholder a
report setting forth in reasonable detail a calculation of the Company Operating
Cash Flow for the immediately preceding fiscal year together with the comparison
of the (i) Operating Cash Flow for the prior fiscal year and (ii) budgeted
Operating Cash Flow for the fiscal year, based upon the Annual Business Plan
approved by the Board of Directors for such prior fiscal year.

          (f) Concurrently with each dividend distribution pursuant to Section
4.2, the Company shall deliver to each Stockholder a report setting forth in
reasonable detail a calculation of the Stockholder's Proportionate Share of the
Company's Operating Cash Flow for the immediately preceding quarter and the
amount of the dividend being distributed with respect to such period.

          (g) Concurrently with each distribution of Net Disposition Proceeds,
the Company shall deliver to each Stockholder a report setting forth in
reasonable detail a description of the transaction or transactions giving rise
to the Net Disposition Proceeds, a calculation of the Net Disposition Proceeds,
a calculation of the Stockholder's Proportionate Share of such Net Disposition
Proceeds and the amount of the Net Disposition Proceeds being distributed to
such Stockholder.

          (h) The Company shall prepare and deliver to each Stockholder the
reports set forth in Schedule VII.

          (i) The Company shall prepare and deliver to each Stockholder such
other reports as NYSCRF shall reasonably require.

          (j) The Company shall deliver to each Class C Stockholder a copy of
each Annual Business Plan that has been approved by the Board, promptly
following such approval.

-39-

ARTICLE V.

                                 EXCHANGE RIGHT

          5.1. The Exchange Right. (a) At any time after the Exchange Trigger
Date, each Class B Stockholder and Class C Stockholder (an "Exchanging
Stockholder") shall have the right from time to time, upon delivery to GG
Properties of a written election notice (the "Exchange Election Notice"), to
exchange all or a portion of its Common Stock (other than with respect to any
shares of Class C Stock that have been acquired from GGP or GG Properties,
unless GGP or GG Properties, as part of the transaction by which such shares
were acquired, consents to the application of this Section 5.1 to such
shares) for consideration from GG. Properties equal to:

          (i)  the product of (x) the Company's FFO for the most recently
               completed four fiscal quarters for which the report of the
               Company's FFO and the General Growth FFO referred to in Section
               4.7(e) has been delivered to the Stockholders prior to the date
               of the Exchange Election Notice (the "Measurement Period"),
               adjusted as set forth below and calculated on the same basis as
               the General Growth FFO multiplied by (y) the Proportionate Share
               represented by the shares of Common Stock being exchanged,
               multiplied by

          (ii) an amount equal to (1) the Ten Day Average General Growth Share
               Closing Price divided by (2) the General Growth FFO Per share for
               the Measurement Period adjusted as set forth below:

          (b) Calculation of the Company's FFO or the General Growth FFO shall
be adjusted so as to give pro forma effect to (i) the incurrence of debt or
issuance of capital stock by the Company and its Subsidiaries or by GG
Properties or GGP, as the case may be, during the Measurement Period or
subsequent to the end of the Measurement Period through the date of the Election
Notice as if such debt or capital stock had been incurred or issued, as the case
may be, and the application of the proceeds from the incurrence or issuance, as
the case may be, of such debt or capital stock had occurred at the beginning of
the Measurement Period, (ii) the repayment or elimination of any debt of the
Company or any Subsidiary or of GG Properties or GGP, as the case may be
(including a

-40-

pro-forma repayment or elimination of debt (assuming such debt bears interest at
the Company's weighted average cost of debt) as a result of (1) any Additional
Subscription Payments received from an Exchanging Stockholder in conjunction
with the exercise of its exchange rights under this Article V and (2) a
corresponding deemed receipt of any Additional Subscription Payments from the
holders of Class A Common Stock whether or not actually funded), or the
repurchase or redemption of any capital stock of the Company or any Subsidiary
or of GG Properties or GGP, as the case may be, during the Measurement Period or
subsequent to the end of the Measurement Period through the date of the Election
Notice as if such debt had been repaid or eliminated or such capital stock had
been repurchased or redeemed at the beginning of the Measurement Period, and
(iii) any asset disposition and any asset acquisition by the Company or any
Subsidiary or by GG Properties or GGP, as the case may be, the gross proceeds or
gross purchase price of which, as the case may be, exceeds $1 million and that
occurred during the Measurement Period or subsequent to the end of the
Measurement Period through the date of the Election Notice as if such asset
disposition or asset acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the
Measurement Period; provided further that, in making such calculations, the
interest expense attributable to interest or dividends on any debt of the
Company or any Subsidiary or of GG Properties or GGP, as the case may be, or
capital stock (other than Common Stock) of the Company or any Subsidiary or of
GG Properties or GGP, as the case may be, which bears a floating rate shall be
determined on a pro forma basis as if the rate in effect on the date of
determination had been the applicable rate for all of the Measurement Period.
The amount derived by application of clauses (a)(i) and (ii) above as adjusted
by this clause (b) is referred to herein as the " Exchange Amount."

          (c) No Stockholder may exercise the exchange right set forth in this
Section 5.1 to the extent that the transfer of such Stockholder's Common Stock
in exchange for GG Stock as set forth in Section 5.2 could, based upon a written
opinion of counsel satisfactory to such Stockholder, cause GG Properties or the
Company to fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Code. No
Stockholder may deliver more than one Exchange Election Notice in any twelve
month period. No stockholder may deliver an Exchange Election Notice, for shares
of Common Stock that would result in an Exchange Amount less than $10,000,000
unless such Exchange Election Notice relates to such Stockholder's entire
remaining shares of Common Stock. No Stockholder, other than the original
signatories to this Agreement, shall have the right to exchange more than the
Maximum Number of

-41-

Shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Article V in any twelve month period.
The term "Maximum Number of Shares of Common Stock" shall mean the greater of
(i) one half of the total number of Shares of Common Stock at any time owned
(including shares that have previously been exchanged or disposed of) by a
Stockholder and (ii) such number of shares of Common Stock as would result in an
Exchange Amount of $100,000,000 or less.

          (d) If any accounting convention, policy or procedure covering any
future expenditure, receipt, sale, purchase or other event has not been fully or
adequately addressed in the definition of General Growth FFO or Company FFO as
set forth on Exhibits B and A hereto, respectively, then any amendment to the
definition of General Growth FFO or Company FFO, as appropriate, to provide for
any such convention, policy or procedure with respect to any such event shall
require the consent of GG Properties and the Board.

          (e) On or prior to the Closing Date, GG Properties shall cause its
board of directors to adopt a resolution approving all of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement that could be deemed to be a "business
combination" as defined in Section 203 of the GCL between GG Properties and any
Exchanging Stockholder that becomes an "interested stockholder" as defined in
Section 203 of the GCL, including, without limitation, (i) additional issuances
of GG Stock to such Stockholder in the context of exchanges under this Article V
and (ii) the acquisition by such Stockholder of properties from the Company in
the context of Article VIII hereof. GG Properties shall also cause its board
of directors to adopt a resolution authorizing any Exchanging Stockholder that
becomes an "interested stockholder" as defined in Section 203 of the GCL to vote
its shares of GG Stock received in an exchange transaction for all purposes. GG
Properties agrees that it will not adopt or otherwise approve any "poison pill"
or stockholder rights plan and would have the effect of diluting an Exchanging
Stockholder's equity interest in GG Properties upon exercise of the exchange
rights contained in this Article V or that would otherwise conflict with or
impair such exchange rights.

          (f) Any Stockholder exercising exchange rights pursuant to this
Article V shall, as a condition to such exercise, (1) have timely and fully
funded any previously required funding of all or any portion of its Aggregate
Subscription and (2) fund any unfunded portion of its Aggregate Subscription,
but, with respect to clause (2), shall not receive additional shares of Common
Stock

-42-

therefor, and there shall not be any deemed receipt by any other Stockholder of
additional Shares of Common Stock in connection with such funding.

          (g) GG Properties shall insure that it has sufficient authorized but
unissued shares of Common Stock to enable it to satisfy the exchange rights of
all Stockholders hereunder, and shall, subject to obtaining necessary
stockholder approval, cause its certificate of incorporation and other corporate
charter documents to be amended from time to time, and shall solicit the consent
of its stockholders to the extent required to effectuate any such amendment. In
the event GG Properties elects to pay the Exchange Amount in GG Stock, GG
Properties shall take all steps required by applicable law and regulation and
required under its certificate of incorporation to enable GG Properties to issue
such GG Stock to the Exchanging Stockholder on the relevant closing date.

          5.2. Payment of the Exchange Amount. GG Properties shall have the
option to pay the Exchange Amount in cash or in shares of GG Stock or any
combination thereof. At any time within forty-five (45) days after the date of
the Exchange Election Notice, GG Properties shall deliver to the relevant
Stockholder a written notice (the "Exchange Amount Payment Notice") specifying
whether GG Properties has elected to pay the Exchange Amount in cash, GG Stock
or a specified combination thereof. If GG Properties fails to deliver the
Exchange Amount Payment Notice within such forty-five (45) day period in which
it affirmatively elects to pay the Exchange Amount entirely in GG Stock, GG
Properties shall be deemed to have elected to pay the Exchange Amount entirely
in cash.

          5.3. Registered Stock; Registration Statement.

          To the extent required to enable a Stockholder to publicly distribute
the GG Stock received by it in an exchange transaction, GG Properties shall
prepare and file with the Commission promptly following the delivery of an
Exchange Election Notice (to the extent not then available) a shelf registration
statement under the 33 Act registering GG Stock with respect to the GG Stock of
such Stockholder. GG Properties shall maintain the effectiveness of such shelf
registration statement with respect to such Stockholder's GG Stock, and shall
include such Stockholder as a selling Stockholder with respect to such shelf
registration statement to the extent the public distribution of such
Stockholder's GG Stock would otherwise be prohibited under the 33 Act. All
expenses of such shelf registration of GG Stock required by this Section 5.3
shall be shared equally by GG

-43-

Properties and the Exchanging Stockholder. If requested by a Stockholder that is
selling GG Stock pursuant to an underwritten offering, GG Properties will
reasonably cooperate with such Stockholder in connection with such underwritten
offering, including, upon request, entering into and performing its obligations
under a customary underwriting agreement (which may include representations,
warranties and indemnities customarily given by GG Properties to its
underwriters) with the underwriters of such offering; provided that GG
Properties shall have the right to select the lead or managing underwriter for
such offering (such underwriter to be either Goldman, Sachs & Co. or one of the
top three lead underwriters of REIT equity securities for the immediately
preceding completed calendar year) and such Stockholder shall reimburse GG
Properties for all reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by GG Properties in
connection with such underwritten offering.

          5.4. Closing of an Exchange Transaction. (a) The closing of an
exchange transaction contemplated by this Article V shall occur (i) if GG
Properties has elected to pay the Exchange Amount entirely in GG Stock, on the
date set forth in the Exchange Amount Payment Notice, but in no event later than
the forty-fifth (45th) day following the date on which the Exchanging
Stockholder delivered the Exchange Election Notice or (ii) if GG Properties has
elected to pay the Exchange Amount entirely in cash, on a date set forth in the
Exchange Amount Payment Notice, which date shall in no event be later than the
one hundred twentieth (120th) day following the date on which the Exchanging
Stockholder delivered the Exchange Election Notice. If GG Properties has elected
to pay the Exchange Amount in a combination of GG Stock and cash, (A) the
closing of the delivery of GG Stock shall take place on a date set forth in the
Exchange Amount Payment Notice which date shall in no event be later than the
forty-fifth (45th) day following the date on which the Exchanging Stockholder
delivered the Exchange Election Notice and (B) the closing of the delivery of
the cash portion of the Exchange Amount shall take place on a date set forth in
the Exchange Amount Payment Notice, which date shall in no event be later than
the one hundred twentieth (120th) day following the date on which the Exchanging
Stockholder delivered the Exchange Election Notice. At the closing or closings,
which shall be held at the offices of counsel to GG Properties, (i) GG
Properties shall deliver to the relevant Stockholder the cash portion of the
Exchange Amount required to be paid to the Stockholder in immediately available
funds and, if GG Properties has elected to pay all or a portion of the Exchange
Amount with GG Stock, such certificates representing the number of shares of
such GG Stock to be

-44-

delivered (calculated based on the Ten Day Average General Growth Share Closing
Price, if the closing with respect to such GG Stock occurs within seven (7)
business days of the date of the Exchange Election Notice, or (subject to
Section 5.5(b)) calculated based on (x) the Ten Day Average General Growth
Share Closing Price or (y) the average of the General Growth Share Closing
Prices for each of the ten Trading Days immediately preceding the business day
preceding the closing date, whichever would result in the issuance of the
greater number of shares of GG Stock, if the closing occurs after the seventh
(7th) business day following the date of the Exchange Election Notice)
registered in the names of the Persons designated by such Stockholder, (ii) such
Stockholder shall deliver to GG Properties the certificates representing the
Common Stock being exchanged (together with all necessary fully executed stock
powers), free and clear of any lien, claim or encumbrance (and such Stockholder
hereby represents and warrants that such Common Stock shall immediately prior to
such sale, be so free and clear), (iii) GG Properties shall deliver to GGP the
certificates representing the Common Stock being exchanged (together with all
necessary fully executed stock powers) and (iv) GG Properties, such Stockholder,
GGP and the Company shall execute such other documents and take such other
action as shall be reasonably necessary to consummate the transactions
contemplated by this Article V.

          (b) Pending the closing of an exchange transaction contemplated by
this Article V, an Exchanging Stockholder shall be entitled to all rights,
including voting rights and rights to receive dividends and distributions, that
such Stockholder would ordinarily have with respect to its shares.

          (c) Any shares of Class B Common Stock received by GGP in such an
exchange transaction shall, automatically upon consummation of the exchange
transaction, become shares of Class C Common Stock.

          5.5. Necessary Government Filings. (a) If (i) a Stockholder delivers
to GG Properties an Exchange Election Notice and (ii) as of the date of such
Exchange Election Notice, the purchase by GG Properties of such Stockholder's
Common Stock pursuant to Section 5.1 is subject to the premerger notification
and reporting requirements under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements
Act of 1976, as amended ("HSR"), and the rules and regulations thereunder (the
"Rules"), then GG Properties shall use its reasonable best efforts to (1) duly
file with the United States Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC") and the
Assistant Attorney General (as defined in Section 7A(b)(1)(A) of HSR), no later

-45-

than the fifteenth (15th) day after the date of the Exchange Election Notice, a
fully completed premerger notification and report form with respect to GG
Properties pursuant to Section 7A(a) of HSR and a fully completed written
request for early termination of the waiting period pursuant to Section 7A(b)(2)
of HSR and Rule 803.11 thereunder, (2) deliver to the Company (for execution and
filing by the Company), no later than the fifteenth (15th) day after the date of
the Exchange Election Notice, a fully completed premerger notification and
report form with respect to the Company as required to be filed pursuant to
Section 7A(a) of HSR and (3) cause the applicable waiting period under HSR to
terminate on or before the thirtieth (30th) day after the date of the Exchange
Election Notice.

          (b) If (i) a Stockholder delivers to GG Properties an Exchange
Election Notice and (ii) as of the date of such Exchange Election Notice, the
acquisition by such Stockholder of GG Stock in exchange for such Stockholder's
Common Stock pursuant to Section 5.1 is subject to the premerger notification
and reporting requirements under HSR and the Rules, then (A) GG Properties and
such Stockholder shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to duly file
with the FTC and the Assistant Attorney General, no later than the fifteenth
(15th) day after the date of the Exchange Election Notice, a fully completed
premerger notification and report form with respect to GG Properties pursuant to
Section 7A(a) of HSR and (B) GG Properties shall use its reasonable best efforts
to file with the FTC and the Assistant Attorney General a fully completed
written request for early termination of the waiting period pursuant to Section
7(A)(b)(2) of HSR and Rule 803.11 thereunder, and cause the applicable waiting
period under HSR to. terminate on or before the thirtieth (30th) day after the
date of the Exchange Election Notice. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in Section 5.4, if a Stockholder is required to make a filing under HSR pursuant
to this Section 5.5(b), and as a result thereof, the closing of the delivery of
GG Stock cannot occur on or prior to the seventh (7th) business day following
the date of the Exchange Election Notice, then the number of shares of GG Stock
to be delivered at such closing shall be calculated based upon the Ten Day
Average General Growth Share Closing Price.

          (c) If a Stockholder has delivered an Exchange Election Notice
pursuant to Section 5.1 above and GG Properties and such Stockholder have
complied with the provisions of Section 5.5(a) above but, notwithstanding GG
Properties' and such Stockholder's reasonable best efforts, the applicable
waiting period under HSR with respect to such

-46-

exchange has not terminated by the closing date set forth in Section 5.4 above,
then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article V, the closing
date set forth in Section 5.4 above shall be extended to the fifth business day
after all applicable waiting periods under HSR have been terminated. From and
after the original closing date set forth in Section 5.4 above, GG Properties
shall continue to use its reasonable best efforts to cause the applicable
waiting period under HSR with respect to such exchange to be terminated.

          5.6. Board Representation. If a Stockholder exchanges its Common Stock
pursuant to this Article V, and receives as consideration for such Common Stock,
GG Stock having a value of at least $100,000,000, then at the election of such
Stockholder, GG Properties will exercise all authority under the GCL and under
GG Properties' Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws to (i) cause one
Satisfactory Nominee (as defined below) designated by such Stockholder and to
cause one independent director nominated by the board of directors of GG
Properties (the "GG Board") (if such Satisfactory Nominee would not qualify as
an independent director) to be promptly elected to the GG Board as a member of
the class of directors whose term is the latest to expire and (ii) increase the
size of the GG Board to account for such additional director or directors. At
each annual meeting of stockholders of GG Properties thereafter at which
directors in the same class as the Satisfactory Nominee shall be elected, such
Stockholder shall be entitled to propose to the GG Board or the nominating
committee thereof one Satisfactory Nominee in accordance with the procedures set
forth below. The proposal by such Stockholder of any person for election to the
GG Board shall be made after consultation with GG Properties, each person
designated by such Stockholder for election to the GG Board shall be reasonably
acceptable to the GG Board (each such person, a "Satisfactory Nominee"). GG
Properties shall cause each Satisfactory Nominee designated by such Stockholder
for election to the GG Board to be included in the slate of nominees recommended
by the GG Board to GG Properties' stockholders for election as directors at each
annual meeting of the stockholders of GG Properties at which directors in the
same class as the Satisfactory Nominee shall be elected and shall use its best
efforts to cause the election of each such Satisfactory Nominee, including
soliciting proxies in favor of the election of such persons. In the event that
any Satisfactory Nominee elected to the GG Board shall cease to serve as a
director for any reason, the vacancy resulting therefrom shall be filled by the
GG Board with a substitute Satisfactory Nominee according to the procedures
described

-47-

above. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such Stockholder shall no longer have the
right to propose a Satisfactory Nominee to the GG Board from and after the date
such Stockholder ceases to own at least $80,000,000 worth of GG Stock based on
then current market value. The parties agree that the designees of such
Stockholder on the GG Board shall not participate in any action taken by the GG
Board or GG Properties relating to this Agreement.

          5.7. GG Properties Organic Change. Any capital reorganization or
reclassification of the capital stock of GG Properties, or consolidation or
merger of GG Properties with another Person, or the sale of all or substantially
all of the assets of GG Properties to another Person which is effected in such a
way that holders of GG Stock are entitled to receive (either directly or upon
subsequent liquidation) stock, securities, cash or other property with respect
to or in exchange for GG Stock is referred to herein as an "Organic Change."
Prior to and as a condition of such Organic Change, GG Properties shall make
lawful and adequate provision to insure that the Class B Stockholders and Class
C Stockholders will thereafter have the right to acquire and receive upon
exchange of their shares of Class B Common Stock or shares of Class C Common
Stock pursuant to this Article V, in lieu of shares of GG Stock, such shares of
stock, securities, cash or other property as such Stockholders would have been
entitled to receive in connection with such Organic Change if such Stockholders
had exercised their exchange rights immediately prior to the Organic Change.
Prior to the consummation of any such Organic Change, GG Properties shall insure
that the successor Person (if other than GG Properties) resulting from such
Organic Change or the Person purchasing assets shall assume by written
instrument delivered to the Class B Stockholders and Class C Stockholders the
obligation to deliver to each such Stockholder such shares of stock, securities
or assets as, in accordance with the foregoing provisions, such Stockholder
would be entitled to receive upon exercise of its exchange rights. If a
purchase, tender or exchange offer is made to and accepted by the holders of
more than 50% of the outstanding shares of GG Stock, GG Properties shall, prior
to the consummation of any consolidation, merger or sale with the Person having
made such offer or with any Affiliate of such Person, insure that the Class B
Stockholders and Class C Stockholders shall have been given a reasonable
opportunity to then elect to receive upon the exercise of their exchange rights
pursuant to this Article V either the stock, securities or assets then issuable
with respect to the GG Stock or the stock, securities or assets, or the
equivalent, issued to previous holders of GG Stock in accordance with such
offer.

-48-

ARTICLE VI.

                            TRANSFERS OF COMMON STOCK

          6.1. Certain Restrictions. No Stockholder shall, directly or
indirectly, Transfer any Common Stock to any Person (any such Person in whose
favor a Transfer of Stock is made and all subsequent permitted transferees of
any such Person being referred to collectively as "Transferees" and individually
as a "Transferee"), unless such Transfer is made pursuant to this Article VI or
Articles V or VIII hereof provided, however, that nothing in this Agreement
shall restrict the Transfer of any ownership interest in any Stockholder unless
such Stockholder's assets consist substantially of Common Sock, in which case
the Transfer shall be deemed a Transfer of such Common Stock. Each Stockholder
hereby agrees that it will not Transfer all or any portion of its Common Stock
except as permitted by this Agreement, that the Company shall not reflect on its
books any Transfer of Common Stock to any Person except in accordance with this
Agreement, and that any Transfer of Common Stock not permitted by the provisions
of this Agreement shall be null and void ab initio.

          6.2. Compliance with Securities Laws. No Stockholder shall Transfer
any Common Stock, and the Company shall not reflect on its books any Transfer of
Common Stock, unless (a) the Transfer is pursuant to an effective registration
statement under the 33 Act and under any applicable state securities or blue sky
laws or (b) such Stockholder shall have furnished the Company with evidence
reasonably satisfactory to the Company that no such registration is required
because of the availability of an exemption from registration under the 33 Act
and under applicable state securities or blue sky laws. A written opinion of
counsel of recognized standing to the effect set forth in clause (b) of the
preceding sentence shall satisfy the requirements of such clause.

          6.3. Transfer of Ownership Interests in Affiliates. Each Stockholder
hereby agrees that the Transfer by such Stockholder of any ownership interest or
right of exclusive control, if applicable, in any Person that is its Affiliate
if (i) such Person or an Affiliate of such Person that is controlled by such
Person owns Common Stock and (ii) such Transfer would result in such Person no
longer being an Affiliate of such Stockholder, shall be deemed a Transfer of the
shares of Common Stock owned by such Person; provided, however that this Section
6.3 shall in no way limit the transfer of ownership interests or the right of
exclusive control in GG Properties or GGP.

-49-

6.4. Transfers of Common Stock by Stockholders. (a)(i) Except as
otherwise provided in this Section 6.4(a), a holder of Class A Common Stock
shall not Transfer all or any portion of its shares of Class A Common Stock
without the prior approval of the Board.

          (1) Any holder of Class A Common Stock shall have the right, without
     the approval of the Board, to Transfer all or any portion of its shares of
     Class A Common Stock to one or more of its Affiliates (other than an
     Affiliate that owns a share of the Company's Non-Voting Preferred Stock)
     and any shares so transferred shall remain Class A Common Stock.

          (2) Any holder of Class A Common Stock shall have the right, without
     the approval of the Board, to Transfer all or any portion of its Common
     Stock to one or more Accredited Investors or to another Stockholder;
     provided that any shares of Class A Common Stock Transferred pursuant to
     this clause 6.4(a)(i)(2) shall automatically be converted into an equal
     number of shares of Class C Common Stock.

          (ii) Any shares of Class A Common Stock, the Transfers of which have
required approval and been approved of by the Board, shall automatically be
converted into an equal number of shares of Class C Common Stock upon their
transfer.

          (iii) If as a result of the provisions of this Agreement, including
but not limited to the provisions of this Article VI, the aggregate equity
investment in the Company represented by the outstanding shares of Class A
Common Stock (based, on the Aggregate Subscription therefor) becomes less than
the greater of (x) $100 million and (y) twenty percent (20%) of the total equity
investment of all Stockholders in the Company (based on the Aggregate
Subscription therefor) (the "Class A Minimum Investment"), then all remaining
shares of Class A Common Stock shall automatically be converted into an equal
number of shares of Class C Common Stock.

          (b) (i) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6.4(b), a holder
of Class B Common Stock shall not Transfer all or any portion of its shares of
Class B Common Stock without the prior approval of the Board.

          (1) Any holder of Class B Common Stock shall have the right, without
     the approval of the Board, to Transfer all or any portion of its Class B
     Common Stock

-50-

to one or more of its Affiliates and any shares so transferred shall remain
     Class B Common Stock.

          (2) Any holder of Class B Common Stock shall have the right, without
     the approval of the Board, to Transfer all or any portion of its Class B
     Common Stock to one or more Accredited Investors or to another Stockholder,
     provided that (subject to Section 6.4(b)(v) below) any shares of Class B
     Common Stock Transferred pursuant to this clause 6.4(b)(i)(2) shall
     automatically be converted into an equal number of shares of Class C Common
     Stock.

          (ii) Any shares of Class B Common Stock, the Transfers of which have
required approval and been approved of by the Board, shall automatically be
converted into an equal number of shares of Class C Common Stock upon their
transfer.

          (iii) If as a result of the provisions of this Agreement, including
but not limited to the provisions of this Article VI, the aggregate equity
investment in the Company represented by the outstanding shares of Class B
Common Stock (based on the Aggregate Subscription therefor) becomes less than
the greater of (x) $150 million and (y) thirty percent (30%) of the total equity
investment of all Stockholders in the Company (based on the Aggregate
Subscription therefor) (the "Class B Minimum Investment"), then all remaining
shares of Class B Common Stock shall automatically be converted into an equal
number of shares of Class C Common Stock.

          (iv) Any holder of Class B Common Stock shall have the right, without
approval of the Board, to Transfer all or any portion of its Class B Common
Stock to GG Properties pursuant to the exchange rights contained in Article V
hereof or to GGP pursuant to the special dissolution procedures contained in
Article VIII hereof.

          (v) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 6.4(b)(i)(2),
the following shall apply:

          (1) if all or a portion of the outstanding shares of Class B Common
Stock are Transferred to one Person or one group of Affiliated Persons not
formed for the purpose of acquiring such Common Stock, and the Class B Common
Stock so Transferred represents at least the Class B Minimum Investment, then
such Class B Common Stock shall remain Class B Common Stock and shall not be
automatically converted into an equal number of shares of Class C Common Stock
as a result of such Transfer.

-51-

(2) If (1) shares of Class B Common Stock are Transferred to a Person
not formed for the purpose of acquiring such Common Stock (a "Serial
Transferee") by a transferor (a "Serial Transferor") such that the remaining
shares of Class B Common Stock owned by the Serial Transferor are automatically
converted into Class C Common Stock pursuant to Section 6.4(b)(iii) and (2) the
Serial Transferee by virtue of such transfer, and any previous transfers of
Class B Common Stock by the Serial Transferor to the Serial Transferee, then
owns Common Stock which, if it were all Class B Common Stock would be at least
equal to the Class B Minimum Investment, then the Serial Transferee's Common
Stock equal to the number of shares of Common Stock that would be at least equal
to the Class B Minimum Investment shall automatically be converted into an equal
number of shares of Class B Common Stock upon such transfer.

          (c) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6.4(c), no Class C
Stockholder shall Transfer all or any portion of its Class C Common Stock
without the prior approval of the Board. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Section 6.4(c), a Class C Stockholder shall have the right,
without the approval of the Board, to Transfer all or a portion of its Class C
Common Stock to (i) one or more of its Affiliates, (ii) one or more Accredited
Investors or to another Stockholder, and (ii) GGP pursuant to the exchange
rights contained in Article V hereof.

          6.5. Certain Prohibited Transfers of Common Stock by Stockholders. (a)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, no
Transfer of all or any portion of any Stockholder's Common Stock shall be made
if such Transfer would result in:

          (i) the Company being required to register, or seek an exemption from
     registration, as an investment company under the Investment Company Act; or

          (ii) the Company failing to qualify as a real estate investment trust
     under the Code.

          (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the
contrary, without the prior written approval of the Class A Directors, which
approval may be given or withheld in the Class A Directors, sole discretion, no
Transfer of all or any portion of any Stockholder's Class B Common Stock or
Class C Common Stock shall be made to any Person whose principal business is the
development or management of regional shopping malls other than any Person that
is an insurance company, an investment company

-52-

registered under the Investment Company Act, an investment advisor registered
under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended, acting in its capacity as
an investment advisor, or a fiduciary under ERISA acting in such capacity.

          (c) The Board may in its discretion require as a condition of any
Transfer permitted under this Article VI, the delivery of a written opinion of
responsible counsel (who may be counsel for the Company), satisfactory in form
and substance to the Board, to the effect that such Transfer would not result in
any of the consequences set forth in clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) and shall cover
such other matters as the Board may reasonably require. In addition, a Person to
whom a Transfer may be made pursuant to this Article VI may also be required, in
the discretion of the Board, and as a condition precedent to such Transfer, to
make certain representations, warranties and covenants including, but not
limited to, representations as to such Person's net worth, sophistication and
investment intent. The Company agrees to cooperate with any Stockholder making a
Transfer by providing promptly such records and other factual information as may
be reasonably requested with respect to any proposed Transfer provided that such
Stockholder and any prospective transferee that receives such records and
information shall agree in writing to maintain the confidentiality thereof.

          6.6. Expenses of Transfer. The transferring Stockholder agrees that it
will pay all expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by the
Company in connection with any Transfer of its Common Stock.

          6.7. Indemnification by Transferor. In the event that the Company or
any non-transferring Stockholder becomes involved in any capacity in any action,
proceeding, or investigation brought by or against any Person (including any
Stockholder) in connection with any Transfer by a Stockholder of its Common
Stock (other than a Transfer pursuant to Article V or Article VIII hereof), the
transferring Stockholder will periodically reimburse each of the Company and any
non-transferring Stockholder for its legal and other expenses (including the
cost of any investigation and preparation) incurred in connection therewith. To
the fullest extent permitted by law, the transferring Stockholder also will
indemnify the Company and any non-transferring Stockholder against any losses,
claims, damages, or liabilities to which any of them may become subject in
connection with such Transfer. The reimbursement and indemnity obligations of
the transferring Stockholder under this paragraph shall be in addition to any
liability which the transferring Stockholder may otherwise have, shall

-53-

extend upon the same terms and conditions to the partners, employees, and
controlling Persons of the Company and any non-transferring Stockholder, and
shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successors, assigns,
heirs, and personal representatives of the Company, any non-transferring
Stockholder, and any such Persons. The foregoing provisions shall survive any
termination of this Agreement.

          6.8. Acceptance of Prior Acts. Any person who becomes a Stockholder
accepts, ratifies and agrees to be bound by all actions duly taken pursuant to
the terms and provisions of this Agreement by the Company and the Stockholders
prior to the date it became a Stockholder and, without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, specifically ratifies and approves all agreements and other
instruments as may have been executed and delivered on behalf of the Company
prior to said date and which are in force and effect on said date.

          6.9. Certain Conditions to Transfer. As a condition precedent to any
Transfer under Section 6.4(a), (b) (other than Section 6.4(b)(iv)) or (c), each
Transferee shall have executed and delivered to the Company and each other
Stockholder, an instrument in substantially the form of Exhibit K hereto
confirming that such Transferee agrees to be bound by the terms of this
Agreement (including, without limitation, this Article VI and Article VII) and
shall have" submitted to the Company such evidence as the Company may reasonably
request to demonstrate that such Transfer is a permitted transfer under this
Article VI. Any Transferee of Common Stock permitted pursuant to the terms of
Section 6.4(a), (b) (other than Section 6.4(b)(iv)) or (c) shall, upon execution
and delivery to the Company and each other Stockholder of an instrument in
substantially the form of Exhibit K hereto, be entitled to all the benefits of
this Agreement, including without limitation, the exchange rights as set forth
in Article V. The certificates issued to any Transferee which represent the
Common Stock so Transferred shall bear the legends provided in Article IX
hereof, if required by such Article.

          6.10. Responsibility for Subscriptions. Any Transferee of all or a
portion of a Stockholder's shares of Common Stock shall be obligated to pay when
due any Called Subscriptions or Available Subscriptions on account of such
transferred shares of Common Stock. Each Stockholder agrees that,
notwithstanding the Transfer of all or any portion of its Common Stock, as
between it and the Company it will remain liable for the Called Subscriptions
and Available

-54-

Subscriptions in each case relating to the Transferred shares of Common Stock.

                                  ARTICLE VII.

                                  SUBSCRIPTIONS

          7.1. Additional Subscriptions. In addition to each Stockholder's
Initial Subscription, subject to Section 7.2 hereof, each Stockholder shall make
additional subscriptions in the amounts and on the dates (the Additional
Subscription Dates") set forth opposite such Stockholder's name on Schedule XVII
hereto. Any subscription payment made by a Stockholder pursuant to this Section
7.1, is sometimes referred to herein as an "Additional Subscription Payment."
Upon payment by a Stockholder of its Additional Subscription Payment, the
Company shall issue to such Stockholder, at a purchase price of $25,000 per
share, the number of additional shares of Common Stock set forth opposite such
Stockholder's name on Schedule XVII hereto. All such additional shares issued to
a holder of Class A Common Stock shall be shares of Class A Common Stock, all
such additional shares issued to a holder of Class B Common Stock shall be
shares of Class B Common Stock and all other such additional shares shall be
shares of Class C Common Stock.

          7.2. Delay or Acceleration of Additional Subscription Payments. (a) On
or before the tenth (10th) business day prior to any Additional Subscription
Date, the Board shall have the authority to postpone one or more of the
Additional Subscription Dates to such date or dates as the Board shall deem in
the best interest of the Company. Upon any such decision by the Board, the
Company shall promptly notify each Stockholder of such postponement and the new
Additional Subscription Date. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
Section 7.l or this Section 7.2, the Company shall not have the right to require
Additional Subscription Payments pursuant to this Article VII after the fourth
anniversary of the Closing Date.

          (b) The Board shall also have the right to accelerate Additional
Subscription Payments by delivering to each Stockholder a funding notice (each,
a "Funding Notice") setting forth the amount of such Additional Subscription
Payment and the date on which such Additional Subscription Payment shall be
made. Each Stockholder shall, within fifteen (15) days after the date of a
Funding Notice, pay its Called Subscription to the Company in the amount set
forth in the Funding Notice, and the Company shall issue

-55-

additional shares of Common Stock to such Stockholder to reflect a purchase
price of $25,000 per share, provided that such amount to be paid shall not
exceed such Stockholder's Available Subscription immediately prior to the
issuance of such Funding Notice. Subject to Section 7.4, payments required to be
made by the Stockholders pursuant to a Funding Notice shall be in proportion to
the Stockholders' Proportionate Shares. The Board shall have the right to
deliver a Funding Notice under this Section 7.2 only to fund (1) cash needs for
the Properties Currently Under Development and for the Planned Expansion and
Renovation Programs, (2) liabilities in excess of the Special Reserves therefor
set forth on Schedule XV hereto to the extent not funded with the Initial
Subscriptions and (3) the cost of purchasing a joint venture partner's interest
in any of the properties listed in Schedule VI.

          7.3. Certain Rights and Obligations with Respect to Additional
Subscription Payments. Each Stockholder waives its obligation to any setoff or
reduction with respect to its right to make its Additional Subscription Payments
based on any claim that such Stockholder has against the Company (without
prejudice to such Stockholder's right to assert such claim in a separate
action). The reinvestment or establishment of a reserve by the Company of or
from Operating Cash Flow or Net Disposition Proceeds shall not reduce any
Stockholder's Called Subscriptions or Available Subscription. Except as
expressly required by Section 7.1, 7.2 and 7.4, no Stockholder shall have any
obligation to make any subscription payment to the Company or to advance any
funds thereto.

          7.4. Failure to Make Additional Subscription Payments. If any
Stockholder shall fail to timely make an Additional Subscription Payment
required pursuant to Section 7.1 or 7.2 (such Stockholder is herein referred to
as a "Defaulting Stockholder"), the Company shall first give written notice to
the Defaulting Stockholder offering it 10 additional days in which to make its
Additional Subscription Payments and acquire additional shares of Common Stock,
and if such Defaulting Stockholder shall fail within such 10 day period to make
such Additional Subscription Payments, the Company shall give notice of such
failure to all other Stockholders (each, a "Non-Defaulting Stockholder"), and
such Non-Defaulting Stockholders shall within ten (10) days of such notice
(unless the Defaulting Stockholder shall have made its Additional Subscription
Payment during such period), fund their Proportionate Share (the respective
percentage which the shares owned by each such Non-Defaulting Stockholder bears
to the total number of shares of all Non-Defaulting Stockholders) of the
Additional

-56-

Subscription Payment that the Defaulting Stockholder failed to pay and shall
acquire their Proportionate Share of the additional shares of Common Stock which
the Defaulting Stockholder failed to acquire; provided, however, no Stockholder
shall be required pursuant to this Section 7.4 to make subscription payments in
excess of such Stockholder's Available Subscription and provided, further, that
any payments made by a Non-Defaulting Stockholder pursuant to this Section 7.4
shall be deemed to be Funded Subscriptions of such Stockholder. All shares of
Common Stock owned by a Defaulting Stockholder that are not shares of Class C
Common Stock shall automatically be converted into shares of Class C Common
Stock upon a Stockholders' failure to make an Additional Subscription Payment
pursuant to Section 7.1 or 7.2 and the expiration of the ten (10) day period
referred to above.

          7.5. Funding Shortfalls. If as a result of a default by a Defaulting
Stockholder and after giving effect to Section 7.4 above, the Funded
Subscriptions of all Stockholders is less than the Aggregate Subscriptions of
such Stockholders, then the Board may give notice of such shortfall to all
Non-Defaulting Stockholders, and such Non-Defaulting Stockholders shall within
twenty (20) days of such notice have the right, but not the obligation, to fund
their Proportionate Share of the additional required funding. Each
Non-Defaulting Stockholder who elects to participate shall acquire its adjusted
Proportionate Share (the respective percentage which the shares owned by each
participating Non-Defaulting Stockholder bears to the total number of shares of
all participating Non-Defaulting Stockholders) of the additional shares of
Common Stock represented by such additional funding. All such additional shares
acquired with such additional funding shall be shares of Class C Common Stock
which shall be acquired at a price determined by the Board.

                                  ARTICLE VIII.

                                DISSOLUTION RIGHT

          8.1. Special Dissolution Right. (a) At any time after the Dissolution
Trigger Date, the holders of all shares of Class A Common Stock (acting by
majority vote), on the one hand (the "Class A Group"), and the holders of all
shares of Class B Common Stock (acting by majority vote) (the "Class B Group"),
on the other hand, shall each have the right to offer their Common Stock to the
other Group by delivering a written notice to the Company and the other Group
(by delivery to GGP in the case of the Class A Group

-57-

and to NYSCRF in the case of the Class B Group, provided each still owns shares
of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, respectively) (the "Dissolution
Commencement Notice"). The Company shall promptly, after receipt thereof,
deliver a copy of any Dissolution Commencement Notice to all Stockholders other
than GGP and NYSCRF. Any action by the Class A Group hereunder shall for all
purposes hereunder bind and be deemed to include all other holders of shares of
Class A Common Stock and all holders of shares of Class C Common Stock. Any
action by the Class B Group hereunder shall for all purposes hereunder bind and
be deemed to include all other holders of shares of Class B Common Stock. The
Group that delivers a Dissolution Commencement Notice shall be referred to as
the "Offeror" and the other party or parties shall be referred to as the
"Offeree." No Group may deliver more than one Dissolution Commencement Notice in
any 18-month period.

          (b) Upon receipt of a Dissolution Commencement Notice, the Offeror and
the Offeree shall cause the Company to obtain an appraisal of the fair market
value of each of the Company's properties as follows. Within ten (10) days of
the Dissolution Commencement Notice, each Group shall each select an Appraiser.
If either Group fails to select an Appraiser within such ten (10) day period,
such Group shall forfeit its right to select an Appraiser. Within ten (10) days
of the selection by each Group of its Appraiser, the selected Appraisers shall
collectively select a third Appraiser. If no third Appraiser is selected within
such time period, the Appraisal Institute shall select the third Appraiser upon
the request of either Group's selected Appraiser. Each of the Appraisers shall
be instructed to complete and submit to the Offeror and Offeree its appraised
valuation in full narrative form within sixty (60) days of the selection of the
third Appraiser. If an Appraiser shall not deliver its appraisal for each
property within such sixty (60) day period, any appraisal subsequently submitted
by such Appraiser shall be disregarded. If, after the Offer Effective Date but
prior to delivery of the Response Notice, the Offeror or the Offeree believes
that a Material Adverse Change has occurred with respect to any Company property
since the date of the foregoing appraisal, the Offeror or the Offeree may, by
notice to the Appraisers, require that the Appraisers issue a new appraisal of
such property reflecting such Material Adverse Change; provided that the
obtaining of a new appraisal shall not extend the date on which a Response
Notice is to be delivered and; provided, further, however, that if such new
appraisal is delivered after the delivery of a Response Notice, the Dissolution
Value of the Company or the Dissolution Value of a Property, as the case may be,
shall be adjusted to account for such

-58-

new appraisal. Such new appraisal shall be conducted in the manner and in
accordance with the rules applicable to the original appraisals. A "Material
Adverse Change" shall mean, with respect to any property, an event or occurrence
that is reasonably likely to have resulted in the diminution by 10% or more of
the appraised value of such property as determined prior to such event or
occurrence. If there shall occur a Material Adverse Change with respect to any
property after delivery of the Response Notice, no additional appraisals shall
be made with respect to such property and the appraised value of such property
shall remain as in effect prior to such Material Adverse Change for all purposes
hereunder. The appraised value for each property shall be the average of the two
closest appraisals for that property. As used herein, "Appraiser" means an
independent member of the Appraisal Institute, with a national practice, having
at least ten years' standing and established experience in appraising companies
similar to the Company.

          (c) Upon receipt of the final appraised value as determined by
subsection (b) above, the Offeror (by majority vote) shall have thirty (30) days
to withdraw, by written notice to the Offeree, the Dissolution Commencement
Notice. In the event of such withdrawal, the Offeror shall pay all costs and
expenses of all Appraisers. If within such thirty (30) day period (the last day
of such thirty (30) day period being the "Offer Effective Date"), the Offeror
shall not have withdrawn the Dissolution Commencement Notice, the Dissolution
Commencement Notice shall become effective and shall constitute an irrevocable
offer (the "Offer") by the Offeror to sell to the Offeree all of its Common
Stock at a purchase price (the "Dissolution Purchase Price") equal to the
Offeror's Proportionate Share of the Dissolution Value of the Company. The
"Dissolution Value of the Company" shall be the book value of the Company as of
the end of the Company's most recent fiscal quarter, calculated in accordance
with GAAP, except that in calculating such book value the aggregate appraised
fair market value of the Company's properties determined in accordance with
paragraph (b) above shall be used in lieu of the GAAP net book value of the
Company's properties. In the event the Offer shall become effective, each Group
shall bear one half of the costs and expenses of all Appraisers.

          (d) Upon effectiveness of the Offer as described in subsection (c)
above, the Offeree shall have the right to either (i) purchase the Offeror's
Common Stock for the Dissolution Purchase Price, (ii) elect to require that the
Company, or all or substantially all of the Company's assets, be sold
(including, without limitation, by way of merger) in which case the Board shall
proceed diligently to

-59-

sell the Company or the Company Assets so that such sale shall be completed
within no longer than a fifteen (15) month period, or (iii) elect to distribute
certain of the Company's properties in the manner described in paragraph (f)
below. The Offeree may exercise such right by written notice to the Offerer,
delivered within six (6) months after the Offer Effective Date, of its election
(each such notice, a "Response Notice"). If the Offeree shall not deliver a
Response Notice within much six (6) month period, the Offeree shall be deemed to
have elected the alternative set forth in clause (iii) above.

          (e) If the Offeree elects to purchase all of the Offeror's Common
Stock pursuant to Section 8.1(d)(i) above, the closing of the purchase and sale
of the Offeror's Common Stock shall take place at the offices of counsel to the.
Offeror and shall occur on the date that is six (6) months after the date of the
Response Notice (or, if such date is not a business day, on the next succeeding
day that is a business day) unless the Offeror and Offeree shall have agreed
upon a different date in writing. At such closing, (i) the Offeror shall deliver
to the Offeree certificates representing the Offeror's Common Stock, free and
clear of any lien, claim or encumbrance (and the Offeror hereby represents,
warrants and covenants that such Common Stock shall, immediately prior to such
sale, be so free and clear), (ii) the Offeree shall deliver to the Offeror the
Dissolution Purchase Price in immediately available funds, and (iii) the Offeror
and the Offeree shall execute such other documents and take such other action as
shall be reasonably necessary to consummate the purchase and sale of the
Offeror's Common Stock as contemplated by this Article VIII. Each member of the
Offeree shall be obligated to purchase the Offeror's Common Stock pro rata in
proportion to such member's respective percentage interest of the Offeree (the
respective percentage which the shares owned by such member bears to the total
number of shares of all Stockholders comprising the Offeree) and each member of
a Group which is the Offeror shall be obligated to sell all of its shares in the
Company. If the Offeree includes holders of Class A Common Stock, the election
referred to above may be made by a majority of the holders of Class A Common
Stock; provided, however, that if the holder of Class A Common Stock elects
option (i) above, only the holders of Class C Common Stock who have approved
such election shall be obligated to purchase the Offeror's Common Stock and the
Offeree, for purposes of Section 8.1(e), shall be deemed to include only the
holders of Class A Common Stock and the holders of Class C Common Stock who have
approved such election. After the date of the Response Notice until the closing
of the purchase by the Offeree pursuant to this

-60-

Section 8.1(e), the Offeror shall retain all rights with respect to its Common
Stock, including without limitation the right to vote for directors or to
receive dividends or other distributions paid or made with respect to such
Common Stock.

          If the Offeree elects to purchase all of the Offeror's Common Stock
pursuant to Section 8.1(d)(i) and such purchase is subject to the premerger
notification and reporting requirements under HSR and the Rules, then (i) the
Offeror and the Offeree shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to
duly file with the FTC and the Assistant Attorney General, no later than the
tenth (10th) day after the date of the Response Notice, fully completed
premerger notification and report forms with respect to the Offeror and the
Offeree pursuant to Section 7A(a) of HSR and (ii) the Offeror shall use its
reasonable best efforts to file with the FTC and the Assistant Attorney General
no later than the tenth (10th) day after the date of the Response Notice a fully
completed written request for early termination of the waiting period pursuant
to Section 7A(b)(2) of HSR and Rule 803.11 thereunder, and cause the applicable
waiting period under HSR to terminate on or before the ninetieth (90th) day
after the date of the Response Notice. The filing fees incurred in connection
with the premerger notification and report forms shall be borne by the Offeror.

          If the Offeror and the Offeree have complied with the provisions of
the immediately preceding paragraph but the applicable waiting period under HSR
with respect to purchase of the Offeror's Common Stock has not terminated by the
closing date set forth in this Section 8.1(e), then, notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in this Section 8.1(e), the closing date shall be extended to the
fifth business day after all applicable waiting periods under HSR have been
terminated. From and after the original closing date set forth in this Section
8.1(e), the Offeror shall continue to use its reasonable beet efforts to cause
the applicable waiting period under HSR to be terminated.

          If the Offeree shall default in its obligation to purchase the
Offeror's Common Stock as provided in this Section 8.1(e), then the Company
shall make the property distribution in the manner described in clause (f) below
(but in a single distribution and with the Offeror entitled to select all of the
properties until it has selected properties equal in value to its Proportionate
Share of the Dissolution Value of all of the Company's properties (calculated
pursuant to paragraph (f) hereof)) as soon as possible following such default,
but in no event later than

-61-

thirty (30) days after the date scheduled for closing the purchase of the
Offeror's Common Stock under Section 8.1(e), and the Offeror shall have the
right without the approval of any other Stockholders to cause the Company to
make such distribution of properties and to take all such actions as may be
necessary to accomplish such distribution.

          (f) If the Offeree elects to distribute certain of the Company's
properties (together with associated liabilities) pursuant to Section
8.1(d)(iii) above or a distribution is required to be made pursuant to Section
8.1(e) or 8.1(g), the Company's properties (together with associated
liabilities) shall be divided among the Offeror and the Offeree by having each
select properties on an alternating one-by-one basis (with the Offeree being
entitled to the first selection) until either the Offeror or the Offeree has
selected properties having a Dissolution Value equal to its Proportionate Share
of the Dissolution Value of all of the Company's properties with any remaining
properties going to the other party. The "Dissolution Value of a Property" shall
be the appraised fair market value of the property, determined in accordance
with subsection (b) above, less the face amount of all indebtedness encumbering
or incurred with respect to the property, and the amount of any other
liabilities existing with respect to such property (including any unpaid
arrearages in the payment of debt service with respect to the property)
calculated in accordance with GAAP and reflected on the Company's financial
statements for the most recent fiscal quarter. All properties selected by the
Offeror (together with associated liabilities) will be distributed to the
Offeror in exchange for all of its shares of Common Stock, and the Offeror shall
thereafter no longer be a Stockholder of the Company unless GGP or any of its
affiliates is a member of the Offeror in which case all properties selected by
the Offeree (together with associated liabilities) will be distributed to the
Offeree in exchange for all of its shares of Common Stock, and the Offeree shall
thereafter no longer be a Stockholder of the Company. The party to whom the
properties shall be distributed shall be referred to as the "Distributee". The
Offeror and the Offeree will bear in equal portions all transfer costs
(including, without limitation, any transfer taxes, if any are required by law,
New York State real property gains taxes, if any are required by law, title
insurance premiums, costs of surveys and recording fees) and any prepayment
penalties or other amounts payable to lenders, and the Company's Cash Reserves
(as reflected in the Company's financial statements as of the end of the
Company's most recent fiscal quarter) associated with the distribution of such
properties and other corporate level assets and liabilities shall be

-62-

apportioned on a pro rata basis. The Distributee shall indemnify the Company and
the Stockholders against any losses, claims, damage or liabilities to which any
of them may become subject arising out of or relating to the properties (and
associated liabilities) distributed to the Distributee. The Company and the
Stockholders shall indemnify the Distributee against any losses, claims, damage
or liabilities to which the Distributee may become subject arising out of or
relating to the properties (and associated liabilities) retained by the Company.
The properties distributed to the Distributee shall be distributed subject to
customary prorations. Each of the Offeree and Offeror will cooperate with the
other to facilitate the distribution of properties contemplated by this Section
8.1(f), including, without limitation, with respect to obtaining (1) tenant
estoppels or delivering notices to tenants relating to the distribution, and (2)
tenant, lender, ground lessor or joint venturer consents and to eliminate any
cross-collateralized or cross-defaulted financings between the properties
selected by the Distributee, on the one hand, and the other properties, on the
other hand, including, without limitation, by agreeing to encumber properties
not designated for transfer and to remove cross-collateralized encumbrances from
properties designated for transfer. The distribution of properties (together
with associated liabilities) will occur as early as possible in three
installments of as near equivalent value as possible over three taxable years,
with the first distribution to occur as early as possible in the taxable year in
which the Response Notice is given and thereafter a distribution shall occur on
the first business day of each of the two subsequent tax years. For example, if
the Offeror delivers a Dissolution Commencement Notice on December 1, 1999 and
the Offeree delivers a Response Notice electing to distribute properties
pursuant to Section 8.1(d)(iii) above on May, 31, 2000, the first distribution
would occur on June 1, 2000, the second distribution would occur in January,
2001, and the third distribution would occur in January, 2002. Upon the second
distribution of properties, all Common Stock owned by the Distributee shall
automatically be converted into Class C Common Stock and such party shall no
longer have the right to elect directors to the Board unless the Company shall
fail to make the third distribution as required by this Section 8.1(f) in which
case such Common Stock shall automatically be converted back to its original
Class of Common Stock. During the distribution period, (i) the Offeror may cause
the Company to engage a property manager or managers to manage the properties
selected by the Offeror rather than have such properties be managed by the
Company or its managers, (ii) the Company shall encumber any of the properties
selected by the Offeror in connection with a

-63-

financing or refinancing only at the direction of the Offeror and (iii) the
Company shall operate the properties selected by the Offeror to the extent owned
by the Company in a manner consistent with past business practices. During the
distribution period, the risk of casualty, damage or condemnation or other
adverse change with respect to any property to be distributed to the Distributee
shall be borne by the Distributee and with respect to any property to be
retained by the Company shall be borne by the Company, provided, however, that
any insurance proceeds payable with respect thereto shall, with respect to a
property to be distributed to the Distributee, be paid to the Distributee, and
with respect to a property to be retained by the Company, be paid to the
Company. If as a result of the selection process described above, one party
shall be entitled to properties that have an aggregate Dissolution Value (based
on the Dissolution Value of the Properties obtained pursuant to this paragraph
(f)) in excess of such party's Proportionate Share of the Dissolution Value of
all of the Company's properties (including the pro-rations and adjustments
described in this paragraph (f)), then such party shall pay a cash adjustment to
the other party. Such cash adjustment shall be paid in three equal installments
on each date a distribution of properties is made.

          If at the time a distribution of properties is to be made a property
(an "Impaired Property") cannot be distributed due to an inability to remove it
from a cross-collateralized or cross-defaulted pool, a title issue, the
inability to obtain a necessary consent or any other similar matter, then such
property shall be retained by the Company and the Offeror and Offeree shall
reselect the properties that remain in the Company and that were selected after
the Impaired Property was selected, on an alternating one-by-one basis until
either the Distributee has selected properties able to be distributed as
contemplated herein having a Dissolution Value equal to its then Proportionate
Share of the Dissolution Value of all of the Company's properties.

          (g) If pursuant to Section 8.1(d)(ii), the Offeree elects to require
that the Company, or all or substantially all of the Company's assets, be sold
(including by way of merger), but such sale or merger has not been completed
within the fifteen (15) month period following the Response Notice, then the
Company shall make the property distributions in the manner described in clause
(f) above (but in a single distribution and with the Offeror entitled to select
the first property) as soon as possible following the expiration of such fifteen
(15) month period.

-64-

(h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Article V, (i) if the
Class B Group is the Offeror, then from and after the delivery of a Dissolution
Commencement Notice by the Class B Group, the Class B Group shall not have the
right to exchange their Common Stock pursuant to Article V unless the Class B
Group has withdrawn such Dissolution Commencement Notice pursuant to Section
8.1(c) above and (ii) if the Class A Group is the Offeror and the Class A Group
has not withdrawn its Dissolution Commencement Notice pursuant to Section 8.1(c)
above, then from and after the delivery by the Class B Group of a Response
Notice pursuant to Section 8.1(d) above, the Class B Group shall not have the
right to exchange their Common Stock pursuant to Article V. If the Class A Group
has delivered a Dissolution Commencement Notice and a holder of Class B Common
Stock delivers an Exchange Election Notice prior to the delivery by the Class B
Group of a Response Notice, then (1) such Exchange Election Notice shall
override such Dissolution Commencement Notice with respect to the shares of
Class B Common Stock that are the subject of such Exchange Election Notice, (2)
the shares of Class B Common Stock that are the subject of such Exchange
Election Notice shall be deemed to be shares of Class C Common Stock owned by
GGP for all purposes of this Section 8.1 whether or not the closing in respect
of such Exchange Election Notice has occurred prior to the delivery by the Class
B Group of a Response Notice and (3) the Class B Group shall not have the right
to elect in its Response Notice to purchase the Class A Group's Common Stock for
the Dissolution Purchase Price pursuant to Section 8.1(d)(i) above. Nothing in
this Article VIII shall affect any Class C Stockholder's right to exchange its
Common Stock pursuant to Article V.

          8.2. Other Dissolutions. (a) Notwithstanding anything in this
Agreement to the contrary, the holders of the Class A Common Stock or the
holders of the Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to elect to dissolve the
Company (in which case the Board shall promptly cause the Company to be
dissolved) in the event the Homart Closing Date and the closings under the
Natick Mall Agreement, the Management Transfer Agreement, the financing
contemplated under the Financing Commitment and the Existing Lender Arrangements
shall not have been consummated and shall not have closed by January 31, 1996.

          (b) If at any time shares of either Class A Common Stock or Class B
Common Stock (but not both) shall be outstanding, any determination to dissolve
the Company and the manner in which such dissolution shall occur shall be
determined by the Board and submitted to a vote of the Electing Class in
accordance with the provisions of the GCL.

-65-

If at any time shares of neither the Class A Common Stock or Class B Common
Stock shall be outstanding, any determination to dissolve the Company shall be
made by the Stockholders in accordance with the Company's Certificate of
Incorporation and the GCL.

                                   ARTICLE IX.

                                     LEGENDS

          All Stockholders agree that any certificates evidencing Common Stock
subject to this Agreement shall be stamped or endorsed with a legend in
substantially the following form; provided, however, in the event that shares of
Common Stock are registered under the 33 Act, the Company shall promptly upon
request, but in any event not later than is necessary in order to consummate any
sale pursuant to any underwriting agreement or sales agency agreement relating
thereto, deliver a replacement certificate not containing the first paragraph of
the legend below in exchange for the legended certificate (it being understood
that such legend shall be placed on such replacement certificate if the sale
does not occur in accordance with the terms of the registration statement); and
provided, further, the Company shall upon termination of this Agreement promptly
upon request deliver a replacement certificate not containing the second
paragraph of the legend below in exchange for the legended certificate:

          THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT
BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED, OR APPLICABLE
STATE SECURITIES LAWS, AND ACCORDINGLY NEITHER THE SHARES NOR ANY INTEREST
THEREIN MAY BE SOLD, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE
ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN EXEMPTION THEREFROM UNDER SAID ACT AND ANY
SUCH LAWS APPLICABLE THERETO AND THE RULES AND REGULATIONS THEREUNDER.

          IN ADDITION, TRANSFERS, VOTING AND OTHER MATTERS IN RESPECT OF THE
SHARES OF COMMON STOCK REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE SUBJECT TO A
SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT DATED AS OF DECEMBER 20, 1995 AMONG THE COMPANY AND
CERTAIN STOCKHOLDERS NAMED THEREIN, AS AMENDED FROM TIME TO TIME, A COPY OF
WHICH AGREEMENT IS ON FILE AT THE PRINCIPAL OFFICE OF THE COMPANY AND MAY BE
OBTAINED WITHOUT CHARGE UPON WRITTEN REQUEST TO THE COMPANY.

          THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE SUBJECT
TO RESTRICTIONS ON OWNERSHIP AND TRANSFER FOR THE PURPOSE OF THE COMPANY'S
MAINTENANCE OF ITS

-66-

STATUS AS A REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF
1986, AS AMENDED (THE "CODE"). NO INDIVIDUAL MAY BENEFICIALLY OWN COMMON SHARES
IN EXCESS OF THE THEN APPLICABLE OWNERSHIP LIMIT WITH RESPECT TO COMMON SHARES,
WHICH MAY DECREASE OR INCREASE FROM TIME TO TIME, UNLESS SUCH INDIVIDUAL IS AN
EXISTING HOLDER. ANY INDIVIDUAL WHO ATTEMPTS TO BENEFICIALLY OWN SHARES IN
EXCESS OF THE ABOVE LIMITATION MUST IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY THE COMPANY. IN ADDITION,
NO PERSON MAY CONSTRUCTIVELY OWN COMMON SHARES IN EXCESS OF THE CONSTRUCTIVE
OWNERSHIP LIMIT, UNLESS SUCH PERSON IS AN EXISTING CONSTRUCTIVE HOLDER. ANY
PERSON WHO ATTEMPTS TO CONSTRUCTIVELY OWN COMMON SHARES IN EXCESS OF THE
CONSTRUCTIVE OWNERSHIP LIMIT MUST IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY THE COMPANY. ALL
CAPITALIZED TERMS USED IN THIS LEGEND HAVE THE MEANINGS DEFINED IN THE COMPANY'S
CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION, AS THE SAME MAY BE FURTHER AMENDED FROM TIME TO
TIME, A COPY OF WHICH, INCLUDING THE RESTRICTIONS ON OWNERSHIP AND TRANSFER,
WILL BE SENT WITHOUT CHARGE TO EACH STOCKHOLDER WHO SO REQUESTS. IF THE
RESTRICTIONS ON OWNERSHIP AND TRANSFER ARE VIOLATED, THE COMMON SHARES
REPRESENTED HEREBY WILL BE AUTOMATICALLY EXCHANGED FOR EXCESS SHARES AND WILL BE
DEEMED TRANSFERRED TO A SPECIAL TRUST AS PROVIDED IN THE CERTIFICATE OF
INCORPORATION.

                                   ARTICLE X.

                            POST-CLOSING TERMINATION

          Following the Closing, this Agreement shall terminate upon the earlier
to occur of the following: (i) such time as only one Stockholder or one
Affiliated group of Stockholders owns all of the issued and outstanding Common
Stock and (ii) the affirmative election of a majority of the outstanding shares
of each Class of Common Stock; provided, however, that no such termination shall
relieve any Person of any liability for a prior breach or default. Upon the
termination of this Agreement, (i) all shares of Common Stock shall be entitled
to equal rights in all respects including, without limitation, the election of
directors, (ii) the provisions of the Company's certificate of incorporation and
by laws shall govern, and (iii) the prohibitions on Transfers of Common Stock
contained in Sections 6.2, 6.4 and 6.5(a) and (d) shall, notwithstanding such
termination, continue to apply.

-67-

ARTICLE XI.

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

          11.1. Recapitalization, Exchanges, etc. Affecting the Common Stock.
The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to the full extent set forth herein
with respect to (a) the Common Stock and (b) any and all shares of capital stock
of the Company or any successor or assign of the Company (whether by merger,
consolidation, sale of assets or otherwise) which may be issued in respect of,
in exchange for, or in substitution for the Common Stock, by reason of any stock
dividend, split, reverse split, combination, recapitalization, reclassification,
merger, consolidation or otherwise. In the event of any change in the
capitalization of the Company, as a result of any stock split, stock dividend or
stock combination, the provisions of this Agreement shall be appropriately
adjusted.

          11.2. Injunctive Relief. Each party hereto acknowledges that it would
be impossible to determine the amount of damages that would result from any
breach of any of the provisions of this Agreement and that the remedy at law for
any breach, or threatened breach, of any of such provisions would likely be
inadequate and, accordingly, agrees that each other party shall, in addition to
any other rights or remedies which it may have, be entitled to seek such
equitable and injunctive relief as may be available from any court of competent
jurisdiction to compel specific performance of, or restrain any party from
violating, any of such provisions. In connection with any action or proceeding
for injunctive relief, each party hereto hereby waives the claim or defense that
a remedy at law alone is adequate and agrees, to the maximum extent permitted by
law, to have each provision of this Agreement specifically enforced against it,
without the necessity of posting bond or other security against it, and consents
to the entry of injunctive relief against it enjoining or restraining any breach
or threatened breach of such provisions of this Agreement.

          11.3. Successors and Assigns. All the terms and provisions of this
Agreement shall be binding upon, shall inure solely to the benefit of and shall
be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors and
assigns, and no such term or provision is for the benefit of, or intended to
create any obligations to, any other Person, provided that (i) the Company shall
not have either the right or the power to assign or delegate any right or
obligation hereunder (including, without limitation by merger, consolidation or
other operation of law) and any

-68-

purported such assignment or delegation shall be void except as expressly
provided herein, and (ii) no Stockholder may assign any rights under this
Agreement (including, without limitation, by merger, consolidation or other
operation of law) except that, subject to the following sentence, any
Stockholder may assign its rights hereunder, in whole but not in part, in
connection with a Transfer of Common Stock made in strict compliance with all of
the provisions of this Agreement. If any Stockholder shall acquire additional
Common Stock and if any Transferee of any Stockholder shall acquire any Common
Stock, in each case in any manner, whether by a permitted Transfer, operation of
law or otherwise, such Common Stock shall be held subject to all of the terms of
this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Common Stock such Person shall be
conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to comply with all of the
terms and provisions of this Agreement.

          11.4. Amendment; Waiver. (a) Neither this Agreement nor any provision
hereof nor any provision of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation may be
changed, waived, discharged or terminated orally, but only by an instrument in
writing signed by the Company and by the holders of a majority of the shares of
each class of Common Stock.

          (b) No failure by any party to insist upon the strict performance of
any covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any
right or remedy consequent upon breach thereof shall constitute a waiver of any
such breach or of any other covenant, duty, agreement or condition, any such
waiver being effective only if contained in a writing executed by the waiving
party.

          11.5. Representations by Stockholders. (a) Each Stockholder represents
and warrants, that (i) it has been duly authorized and otherwise duly qualified
to purchase and hold its Common Stock and to execute and deliver this Agreement
and all other instruments executed and delivered on behalf of it in connection
with the acquisition of its Common Stock, (ii) the consummation of such
transactions will not result in a breach or violation of, or a default under,
its charter or by-laws, if such Stockholder is a corporation, or its certificate
of limited partnership or its partnership agreement, if such Stockholder is a
partnership, or its other organizational documents, if such Stockholder is
neither a corporation or partnership, or any existing agreement by which it or
any of its properties is bound and (iii) this Agreement is a binding agreement
on the part of such Stockholder enforceable in accordance with its terms against
such Stockholder.

-69-

(b) Each Stockholder, by executing this Agreement, represents and
warrants that it has acquired its Common Stock for its own account, or for the
account of a commingled pension trust or other institutional investor previously
specified in writing to the Company with respect to whom it has full investment
discretion, for investment and not with a view to resale or distribution
thereof, that it has such knowledge and experience in financial and business
matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risk of an investment in
the Common Stock, and is able to bear the economic risk of its investment and
that it is fully aware that the Company is relying upon the truth and accuracy
of this representation and warranty. Each Stockholder agrees that it will not
transfer, sell or dispose of all or any portion of, or offer to transfer, sell
or dispose of all or any portion of its Common Stock, or solicit offers to buy
from or otherwise approach or negotiate in respect thereof with any person or
persons whomsoever, all or any portion of its Common Stock in any manner which
could violate or cause the Company to violate applicable federal or state
securities laws.

          (c) Each of GGP and GG Properties represents and warrants to the other
Stockholders (i) that they have delivered or caused to be delivered to each of
the other Stockholders true, correct and complete copies of the Homart Stock
Purchase Agreement (including the side letter agreements relating thereto dated
July 31, 1995 and October 16, 1995), the Ownership Interest Purchase Agreement
dated as of October 16, 1995 among Sears, Roebuck and Co., Homart Development
Co., Homart Newco One, Inc., Homart Newco Four, Inc., Homart Newco Five, Inc.,
Community Centers One L.L.C., Community Centers Two L.L.C. and the Company, the
Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of October 16, 1995 by and between the
Company and Developers Diversified Realty Corporation, the Natick Agreement, the
Management Transfer Agreement, the Sublease and any of the agreements
specifically referred to therein (for example, the Escrow Agreement and the
Amended and Restated Tax Allocation Agreement) and (ii) that no other agreements
relating to the purchase of the assets of Homart by the Company have been
entered into by any of the Company, GGP or GG Properties.

          (d) NYSCRF represents and warrants to the Company and the other
Stockholders that it is a "government plan" within the meaning of Section 414(d)
of the Code and Section 3(32) of ERISA and that its acquisition of Common Stock
is in accordance with all applicable state laws.

          (e) NYSCRF represents and warrants to the other Stockholders that it
is exempt from the filing requirements

-70-

of HSR and the Rules. GGP represents and warrants to the other Stockholders that
its acquisition of Class A Common Stock is exempt from the filing requirements
of HSR and the Rules.

          (f) Each Stockholder which is a Benefit Plan Investor (other than
NYSCRF) represents and warrants that its acquisition and holding of Common Stock
is not a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of
the Code, except to the extent such acquisition and holding of Common Stock
meets the requirements of a prohibited transaction class exemption.

          11.6. Notices. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all
notices, requests, claims, demands, waivers and other communications hereunder
shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered
by hand, when delivered personally or by courier, five days after being
deposited in the United States mail, or when received by facsimile transmission
if promptly confirmed by one of the foregoing means, as follows: if to the
Company at 120 N. LaSalle, Suite 3300, Chicago, Illinois 60602, Attention:
Matthew Bucksbaum, facsimile transmission no. 312-422-2323, if to GGP at 120
N. LaSalle, Suite 3300, Chicago, Illinois 60602, Attention: Matthew Bucksbaum,
facsimile transmission no. 312-422-2323, if to any other Stockholder at the
address or facsimile transmission number set forth opposite such Stockholder's
name on Schedule I hereto and if to GG Properties at 215 Keo, Des Moines, Iowa
50309, Attention: Matthew Bucksbaum, facsimile transmission no. 515-283-0635
(or, in the case of Persons who become parties hereto subsequently, at their
last addresses or facsimile transmission numbers shown on the record books of
the Company). Each party hereto, by notice given to each other party hereto in
accordance with this Section 12.6, may change the address or facsimile
transmission number to which such notice or other communications are to be sent
to such Party.

          11.7. Further Assurances. Each party to this Agreement agrees to
execute, acknowledge, deliver, file and record such further certificates,
amendments, instruments and documents, and to do all such other acts and things,
as may be required by law or as, in the reasonable judgment of the Board or any
Stockholder, may be necessary or advisable to carry out the intent and purpose
of this Agreement.

          11.8. Confidentiality. The Company and each of the Stockholders agree
not to disclose or permit the disclosure (except by the Company in connection
with the operation of its business) of any of the terms of this

-71-

Agreement or of any information relating to the Company Assets or the Company's
business, which the Company and the Stockholders hereby acknowledge constitute
non public, financial information, provided that such disclosure may be made (a)
to any person who is a partner, officer, director or employee of such
Stockholder or advisers or counsel to or accountants of such Stockholder solely
for their use and on a need-to-know basis, (b) with the prior consent of GGP and
a majority of the other Stockholders, (c) pursuant to a subpoena or order issued
by a court, arbitrator or governmental body, agency or official, (d) as required
by applicable federal or state laws (including, without limitation, securities
and freedom of information laws) or (e) to any lender or prospective lender to,
or investor in, such Stockholder.

          In the event that a Stockholder shall receive a request (or, in the
case of NYSCRF, at such time a notice of such request is communicated to the
representatives of NYSCRF who are responsible for the administration of its
ownership of Common Stock) to disclose any of the terms of this Agreement under
subpoena or order, such Stockholder shall (i) promptly notify the Board thereof,
(ii) consult with the Board on the advisability of taking steps to resist or
narrow such request and (iii) if disclosure is required or deemed advisable,
cooperate with the Board in any attempt it may make to obtain an order or other
assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded those terms of this
Agreement that are disclosed.

          11.9. waiver of Claims Against Directors. The Company and each
Stockholder agrees to waive any claim or right of action it might have, whether
individually or by or in the right of the Company, against any director on
account of any action taken or failure to take action by such director in the
performance of his duties to the extent permitted under the GCL.

          11.10. APPLICABLE LAW. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND
CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE.

          11.11. Headings. The descriptive headings of the several sections in
this Agreement are for convenience only and do not constitute part of this
Agreement and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this
Agreement.

          11.12. Entire Agreement. This Agreement (including the Schedules and
Exhibits hereto) constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto and

-72-

supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, between the
parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof including, without
limitation, that certain Summary Terms of the Investment, draft dated November
3, 1995.

          11.13. Severability. Any provision of this Agreement that is
prohibited, unenforceable or not authorized in any jurisdiction shall, as to
such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition,
unenforceability or lack of authorization without invalidating the remaining
provisions hereof or affecting the validity, unenforceability or legality of
such provision in any other jurisdiction.

          11.14. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which
together constitute one and the same instrument.

          11.15. Arbitration. Any claim arising out of an alleged breach of this
Agreement and any claim that Cause exists pursuant to Section 3.6(c) shall be
resolved by arbitration. Such arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with
the following:

          (a) Each party shall have five (5) business days after written notice
by another party of the commencement of arbitration proceedings hereunder to
appoint an arbitrator who is on the approved panel of arbitrators of the
American Arbitration Association. Each party shall immediately notify the other
party of such appointment. The two arbitrators so appointed shall then select a
third arbitrator within five (5) business days after the appointment of the
second arbitrator to then constitute the Board of Arbitration. If any party
shall fail to appoint an arbitrator within such five (5) business day period, or
if the two arbitrators selected by the parties shall fail, within five (5)
business days of their selection, to make a selection of a third arbitrator,
then the American Arbitration Association shall appoint the arbitrator that was
not selected by the failing party or shall appoint the third arbitrator, as the
case may be, in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American
Arbitration Association. The Board of Arbitration shall then proceed under such
rules.

          (b) Following the designation of such Board of Arbitration, the
parties, together with the members of the Board of Arbitrators, shall promptly
undertake appropriate

-73-

informal efforts to mediate and negotiate a solution to the matter covered by
the original notice.

          (c) If a negotiated solution cannot be achieved within fourteen (14)
days after the date on which the Board of Arbitration is constituted, then the
Board of Arbitration shall notify the parties. The proceeding, upon such
notification, will then become a compulsory arbitration to be conducted under
the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association by the
Board of Arbitration. These rules shall be subject to the following
modifications:

          (i) discovery shall be permitted under the same standards provided for
     in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure;

          (ii) the members of the Board of Arbitration shall interpret and apply
     the provisions of this Agreement;

          (iii) except as otherwise set forth in Section 3.6(e), the arbitration
     costs may be charged to the losing party or allocated between the parties
     as may be determined by the Board of Arbitration; and

          (iv) the proceedings will be held in Chicago, Illinois, unless the
     parties shall otherwise agree in writing.

          (d) In connection with the enforcement of the mediation and
arbitration provisions of this Section 11.15, any agreement, decision or award
shall be final and conclusive as to any such claim.

          11.16. Consent to Jurisdiction. In connection with any suit, claim,
action or proceeding relating to the rights and obligations of the parties
arising out of this Agreement: GG Properties, GGP and each other Stockholder
hereby consents to the in personam jurisdiction of the United States federal
courts and Delaware state courts located in New Castle County, Delaware; each
such Person agrees that service in the manner set forth in Section 11.6 hereof
shall be valid and sufficient for all purposes; and each such Person agrees to,
and irrevocably waives any objection based on forum non conveniens or venue not
to, appear in any United States federal court or Delaware state court located in
New Castle County, Delaware. Each Stockholder (other than GGP) hereby
irrevocably appoints the

-74-

Company as agent for service of process with respect to any matters relating to
the rights and obligations of the parties arising out of this Agreement.

-75-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement as of
the date set forth above.

                                        GGP/HOMART, INC.

By: /s/ Matthew Bucksbaum
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Matthew Bucksbaum
                                              ----------------------------------
                                        Title: CEO
                                               ---------------------------------

GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

                                        By: General Growth Properties, Inc.,
                                            its General Partner

By: /s/ Matthew Bucksbaum
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Matthew Bucksbaum
                                              ----------------------------------
                                        Title: CEO
                                               ---------------------------------

THE COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
                                        AS TRUSTEE OF THE COMMON RETIREMENT FUND

By: /s/ John E. Hull
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: John E. Hull
                                        Title: Deputy Comptroller, Investments
                                               and Cash Management

EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF IOWA

                                      By Equitable Investment Services, Inc.,
                                         Agent

By: /s/ Bryan L. Borchert
                                          --------------------------------------
                                      Name: Bryan L. Borchert
                                      Title: Managing Director

USG ANNUITY & LIFE COMPANY

                                      By Equitable Investment Services, Inc.,
                                         Agent

By: /s/ Bryan L. Borchert
                                          --------------------------------------
                                      Name: Bryan L. Borchert
                                      Title: Managing Director

TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
                                      PENNSYLVANIA

By: /s/ Lucy Momjian
                                          --------------------------------------
                                      Name: Lucy Momjian
                                            ------------------------------------
                                      Title: Associate Treasurer for Investments
                                             -----------------------------------

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

By: /s/ Matthew Bucksbaum
                                          --------------------------------------
                                      Name: Matthew Bucksbaum
                                            ------------------------------------
                                      Title: CEO
                                             -----------------------------------

</EX-10.18>

<EX-10.19>
 19
 c02442exv10w19.txt
 AMENDMENT TO STOCKHOLDERS AGREEMENT

Exhibit 10.19

                               FIRST AMENDMENT TO
                             STOCKHOLDERS AGREEMENT

          This FIRST AMENDMENT TO STOCKHOLDERS AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is
made and entered into as of September 10, 1996 by and among GGP/HOMART, INC., a
Delaware corporation (the "Company"), GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware
limited partnership ("GGP"), THE COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AS TRUSTEE
OF THE COMMON RETIREMENT FUND ("NYSCRF"), a fund, established pursuant to NY
Retirement and Social Security Law Section 422, in the custody of the
Comptroller of the State of New York, EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF IOWA,
USG ANNUITY & LIFE COMPANY, TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA and
GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC., a Delaware corporation ("GG Properties"). GGP,
NYSCRF, EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF IOWA, USG ANNUITY & LIFE COMPANY AND
TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA are sometimes referred to herein
individually as a "Stockholder" or collectively as the "Stockholders."

                                    RECITALS

          A. The Company, the Stockholders and GG Properties entered into that
certain Stockholders Agreement, dated as of December 20, 1996 (the "Original
Agreement"). Capitalized terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the
meanings assigned to them in the Original Agreement.

          B. The Company, the Stockholders and GG Properties desire to amend the
Original Agreement in the manner set forth in this Amendment.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration,
receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company, the
Stockholders and GG Properties hereby agree as follows:

          1. Section 1.12 of the Original Agreement is hereby deleted in its
entirety and replaced with the following:

          "1.12 "Cash Reserves" shall mean an amount funded from the Initial
Subscription as determined by the Board plus the aggregate amount of all Reserve
Amounts."

2. Schedule VII, Part 1, of the Original Agreement is hereby amended
by replacing the words "[open The system known as MRI is currently deemed
acceptable for such purposes]." in Section B, subheading Property level,
subsidiary level and corporate accounting, with the words "Management shall
commence conversion of the computerized management reporting system to the MRI
accounting system no later than January 1997 and use all reasonable efforts to
complete the conversion process by the end of July 1997."

          3. The parties hereto agree that notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in the Original Agreement, including without limitation Schedule X
thereto:

          a) Management shall be entitled to retain the fee previously paid to
     Management by the Company in the amount of approximately $1,200,000 with
     respect to work completed at West Oaks Mall prior to December 20, 1995; and

          b) Commencing in the year 1996 and continuing until the end of the
     year 2004, the aggregate property management, asset management and
     development fees payable to Management each year shall be reduced by
     $200,000 per year for an aggregate reduction of $1,800,000 (the "Aggregate
     Fee Reduction"). Such fee reduction shall be applied monthly, commencing
     with the month of January 1996 and ending with the month of December 2004,
     in the amount of $16,666.67 per month; provided, however, that if the
     Company shall be liquidated, dissolved or merged or consolidated into
     another unrelated Person, or if all or substantially all of the assets of
     the Company shall be sold or otherwise disposed of, or if Management shall
     no longer be entitled to receive the fees described in Schedule X, then
     Management shall have no further obligation or liability to the Company
     with respect to any portion of the Aggregate Fee Reduction that has not
     been applied as of the date of such event.

          4. Annex A to Schedule X of the Original Agreement is hereby amended
by deleting the second page thereof (entitled "GGP/Homart Purchase Price
Allocation Worksheet - Land Homart Share ($ In Thousands)") in its entirety and
replacing it with Exhibit 1 attached hereto.

          5. Annex B to Schedule X of the Original Agreement is hereby deleted
in its entirety and replaced by Exhibit 2 attached hereto.

          6. Schedule X of the Original Agreement is hereby amended by adding
Exhibit 3 attached hereto as Annex C to Schedule X.

-2-

7. The Original Agreement is hereby amended by adding Exhibit 4
attached hereto as Exhibit I to the Original Agreement.

          8. Except as set forth in this Amendment, the Original Agreement is
unmodified and in full force and effect.

          9. THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE.

          10. This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts, each
of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute
one and the same instrument.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Amendment as of
the date set forth above.

                                        GGP/HOMART, INC.

By: /s/ Robert A. Michaels
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Robert A. Michaels
                                              ----------------------------------
                                        Title: President
                                               ---------------------------------

GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

                                        By: General Growth Properties Inc.,
                                            its General Partner

By: /s/ Robert A. Michaels
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Robert A. Michaels
                                              ----------------------------------
                                        Title: President
                                               ---------------------------------

THE COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE
                                        OF NEW YORK AS TRUSTEE OF
                                        THE COMMON RETIREMENT FUND

By: /s/ John E. Hull
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: John E. Hull
                                        Title: Deputy Comptroller, Investments
                                               and Cash Management

-3-

EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE
                                        COMPANY OF IOWA

                                        By Equitable Investment Services, Inc.,
                                        Agent

By: /s/ Bryan L. Borchert
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Bryan L. Borchert
                                        Title: Managing Director

USG ANNUITY & LIFE COMPANY
                                        By Equitable Investment Services, Inc.,
                                        Agent

By: /s/ Bryan L. Borchert
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Bryan L. Borchert
                                        Title: Managing Director

TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
                                        PENNSYLVANIA

By: /s/ Lucy Momjian
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Lucy Momjian
                                              ----------------------------------
                                        Title: Assoc. Treasurer

GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

By: /s/ Robert A. Michaels
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                              ----------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                               ---------------------------------

-4-

</EX-10.19>

<EX-10.20>
 20
 c02442exv10w20.txt
 OPERATING AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 10.20

                               OPERATING AGREEMENT

                                       OF

                              GGP/HOMART II L.L.C.

.
                                                                               .
                                                                               .

                               OPERATING AGREEMENT

                                       OF

                              GGP/HOMART II L.L.C.

                                Table of Contents

i

ii

iii

iv

EXHIBIT/SCHEDULE LIST

Exhibit A      [INTENTIONALLY DELETED]
Exhibit B      [INTENTIONALLY DELETED]
Exhibit C      Stonebriar Development Budget
Exhibit D      [INTENTIONALLY DELETED]
Exhibit E      Relevant Trade Areas

Schedule I     Names of Members
Schedule II    Policies and Procedures
Schedule III   Excluded Costs and Expenses
Schedule IV    Management Fees and Reimbursements
Schedule V     Current Properties
Schedule VI    GGPLP Retained Debt
Schedule VII   NYSCRF Retained Debt

                               OPERATING AGREEMENT

                                       OF

                              GGP/HOMART II L.L.C.

          Operating Agreement, dated November 10, 1999, between GGP Limited
Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership ("GGPLP"), The Comptroller of the
State of New York as Trustee of the Common Retirement Fund ("NYSCRF" and,
together with GGPLP, the "Members") and GGP/Homart II L.L.C., a Delaware limited
liability company (the "Company").

                                   WITNESSETH:

          A. The Members have formed the Company and own all of the issued and
outstanding Units (as defined below).

          B. Each of the Members desires to promote the interests of the Company
and the mutual interests of the Members by establishing herein certain terms and
conditions upon which the Units will be held, including provisions relating to
election of members of the board of directors of the Company, governance of the
Company, dissolution of the Company, the transfer of Units and other matters
contained herein.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and
agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the
receipt, adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties
hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I
                                  DEFINED TERMS

          1.1 DEFINITIONS. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall
have the respective meanings indicated below:

          "Act" shall mean the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, as
amended from time to time.

          "Accredited Investor" shall mean any institutional accredited investor
as defined in Rule 501(a) (1), (2), (3) or (7) under the 33 Act or as defined
under Rule 501(a) (8) under the 33 Act (if all of the equity owners of such
investor are Persons defined in Rule 501(a) (1), (2), (3) or (7) under the 33
Act); provided that such institutional accredited investor has total assets in
excess of $200,000,000.

          "Adjusted Capital Account Deficit" shall mean, with respect to any
Member, the deficit balance, if any, in such Member's Capital Account as of the
end of any relevant Fiscal Year, after giving effect to the following
adjustments:

               (a) credit to such Capital Account any amounts which such Member
          is obligated or treated as obligated to restore with respect to any
          deficit balance in such Capital Account pursuant to Regulations
          Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(c), or is deemed to be obligated to restore
          with respect to any deficit balance pursuant to the penultimate
          sentences of Regulations Section 1.704-2(g)(1) and 1.704-2(i)(5); and

(b) debit to such Capital Account the items described in
          Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5) and (6).

The foregoing definition of Adjusted Capital Account Deficit is intended to
comply with the requirements of the alternate test for economic effect contained
in Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) and shall be interpreted
consistently therewith.

          "Affected Gain" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.5(b).

          "Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person
that, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is
controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person, and the term
"Affiliated" has a meaning correlative to the foregoing. As used herein, the
term "control" shall mean either (i) having (directly or indirectly through one
or more intermediaries) the exclusive power to direct the management and
policies of a Person or (ii) having both (A) at least fifty percent (50%) of the
economic interest in a Person and (B) at least fifty percent (50%) of the voting
rights with respect to such Person with the full right to exercise such vote,
and the term "controlled" has a meaning correlative to the foregoing.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, General Growth Management, Inc., any successor
thereto and any other Person shall be deemed to be Affiliates of GGPLP, provided
that GG Properties or GGPLP, directly or indirectly, is entitled to receive at
least seventy-five percent (75%) of all dividends or other distributions made by
such Person.

          "Agreement" shall mean this Operating Agreement, as originally
executed and as amended, modified, supplemented or restated from time to time,
as the context requires.

          "Alderwood Mall" shall mean the property commonly known as Alderwood
Mall, Seattle, Washington, as more particularly described in the Alderwood Mall
Contribution Agreement.

          "Alderwood Mall Contribution Agreement" shall mean that certain
Contribution Agreement dated concurrently herewith pursuant

2

to which NYSCRF causes the equity interests in the Alderwood Mall Owner to be
conveyed to the Company.

          "Alderwood Mall Owner" shall mean Alderwood Mall L.L.C., a Delaware
limited liability company.

          "Altamonte Entities" shall mean Altamonte Springs Mall L.L.C.,
Altamonte Springs Mall, L.P. and Altamonte Springs Mall II, L.P.

          "Altamonte Mall Contribution Agreement" shall mean that certain
Contribution Agreement dated concurrently herewith pursuant to which GGPLP
conveys and/or causes to be conveyed to the Company all of the equity interests
in and to the Altamonte Entities, which Altamonte Entities own, in the
aggregate, one hundred percent (100%) of the Altamonte Mall Owner which in turn
owns one hundred percent (100%) of the Altamonte Mall.

          "Altamonte Mall" shall mean the property commonly known as Altamonte
Mall, Altamonte Springs, Florida, as more particularly described in the
Altamonte Mall Contribution Agreement.

          "Altamonte Mall Owner" shall mean Altamonte Mall Venture, a Florida
general partnership.

          "Annual Business Plan" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
7.7(c).

          "Antitrust Division" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.6.

          "Appraiser" shall mean an independent member of the Appraisal
Institute, who shall have a national practice, shall have at least ten years'
standing and established experience in appraising properties similar to the
Properties and shall not have been employed by either of the Members within the
previous three (3) years of the date such Appraiser is appointed; provided,
however, that neither Member shall be deemed to have employed an Appraiser
merely because a lender to such Member or such Member's Affiliate hired such
Appraiser even if such Member or Affiliate paid the fee for such Appraiser.

          "Bankruptcy Event" shall mean, with respect to a Member, the
occurrence of any of the following events: (a) the making by it of an assignment
for the benefit of its creditors, (b) the filing by it of a voluntary petition
in bankruptcy, (c) an adjudication that it is bankrupt or insolvent unless such
adjudication is stayed or dismissed within 60 days, or the entry against it of
an order for relief in any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding unless such order
is stayed or dismissed within 120 days, (d) the filing by it of a petition or an
answer seeking for itself any reorganization, arrangement, composition,
readjustment, liquidation, dissolution or similar relief under any statute, law
or regulation, (e) the filing

3

by it of an answer or other pleading admitting or failing to contest the
material allegations of the petition filed against it in any proceeding of the
nature described in the preceding clause (d), (f) its seeking, consenting to or
acquiescing in the appointment of a trustee, receiver or liquidator of it or of
all or any substantial part of its properties, or (g) 120 days after the
commencement of any proceeding against it seeking reorganization, arrangement,
composition, readjustment, liquidation, dissolution or similar relief under any
statute, law or regulation, if the proceeding has not been stayed or dismissed,
or if within 120 days after the appointment without its consent or acquiescence
of a trustee, receiver or liquidator of it or of all or any substantial part of
its properties, the appointment is not vacated or stayed, or within 120 days
after the expiration of any such stay, the appointment is not vacated.

          "Benefit Plan Investor" shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan
Asset Regulations.

          "Board" or "Board of Directors" shall mean the Board of Directors of
the Company in office at the applicable time, as elected in accordance with the
provisions hereof and the By-Laws.

          "Board Members" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(a).

          "Buy-Sell Designated Values" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 10.2.

          "Buy-Sell Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2.

          "Buy-Sell Purchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
10.4(a).

          "Buy-Sell Response Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
10.3.

          "Buy-Sell Right" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1.

          "Capital Account(s)" shall mean, with respect to any Member, the
separate "book" account which the Company shall establish and maintain for such
Member in accordance with Section 704(b) of the Code and Section
1.704-1(b)(2)(iv) of the Regulations and such other provisions of Section
1.704-1(b) of the Regulations that must be complied with in order for the
Capital Accounts to be determined in accordance with the provisions of said
Regulations. In furtherance of the foregoing, the Capital Accounts shall be
maintained in compliance with Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv) of the Regulations, and
the provisions hereof shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent
therewith.

4

"Capital Contribution" shall mean, with respect to any Member, the
amount of money and the Fair Market Value of any property other than money
contributed to the Company (net of liabilities, other than Retained Debt, that
are assumed by the Company or to which such property is subject). The Fair
Market Value of the property being contributed to the Company pursuant to the
Contribution Agreements is equal to the "Contribution Amounts" set forth and
defined in the Contribution Agreements.

          "Carolina Place" shall mean the property commonly known as Carolina
Place, Charlotte, North Carolina, more particularly described in the Carolina
Place Contribution Agreement.

          "Carolina Place Contribution Agreement" shall mean that certain
Contribution Agreement dated concurrently herewith pursuant to which NYSCRF
causes the equity interests in the Carolina Place Owner to be conveyed to the
Company.

          "Carolina Place Owner" shall mean Carolina Place L.L.C., a Delaware
limited liability company.

          "Cash Reserves" shall mean the aggregate amount of all Reserve
Amounts.

          "Cause" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.3(d).

          "Certificate of Formation" shall mean the Company's Certificate of
Formation, as the same may be amended and/or restated from time to time.

          "Change of Control""Change of Control" shall mean, (a) with respect to
GGPLP, GG Properties or any successor (that would not otherwise result in a
Change of Control) ceasing to be the sole general partner of GGPLP, (b) with
respect to GG Properties, any of the following: (i) any Person, other than the
Bucksbaum Family or any Member or any Affiliate of any Member (including by
reason of the application of Article IX), becoming the beneficial owner of (x)
more than 25% of the GG Stock (assuming for such calculation that the Bucksbaum
Family has converted all of their operating partnership units in GGPLP into GG
Stock) and (y) more than 110% of the GG Stock beneficially owned by the
Bucksbaum Family (assuming the Bucksbaum Family has converted all of their
operating partnership units in GGPLP into GG Stock); (ii) the sale or transfer
(other than by way of merger or any other transaction in which GG Properties'
stockholders receive interests in a successor entity) of all or substantially
all of GG Properties' interests in its properties in a single transaction or a
series of related transactions; (iii) the merger of GGPLP or GG Properties and
another Person and, within eighteen (18) months after such merger, a majority of
the Persons who were officers (holding a position of executive vice president or
higher or having the responsibilities of any such positions) of GG Properties 90
days prior to such merger are no longer employed

5

by GG Properties or the survivor in the merger (for reasons other than death or
disability) in the same or a senior position, or with the same or more senior
responsibilities, as prior to the merger; (iv) during any period of two
consecutive calendar years, individuals who at the beginning of such period
constituted the board of directors of GG Properties (together with any new
directors whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of a
majority of the directors (or by a nominating committee of the board of
directors) then still in office, who either were directors at the beginning of
such period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so
approved) cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the directors of GG
Properties or its successor by merger or otherwise then in office or (c) the
taking of any action, including the filing of a petition, with respect to (x) an
assignment for the benefit of creditors of GGPLP or GG Properties, (y) the
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, dissolution or any similar occurrence of
GGPLP or GG Properties or (z) a liquidation or any other similar occurrence,
that might result in the termination of GGPLP or GG Properties (other than in
connection with a merger or other transaction in which GG Properties'
stockholders receive interests in a successor entity) which action, if taken by
someone other than GGPLP or GG Properties has not been discharged within sixty
(60) days. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "Bucksbaum Family" shall
mean Matthew Bucksbaum, his spouse, children, descendants and trusts for the
benefit of any of them and the spouse, children, descendants and estate of
Martin Bucksbaum and any trusts for the benefit of any of them.

          "Class A Board Members" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
7.2(a).

          "Class A Members" shall mean the holders of Class A Units.

          "Class A Minimum Investment" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 8.4(a)(ii).

          "Class A Units" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.5
hereof.

          "Class B Board Members" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
7.2(a).

          "Class B Members" shall mean the holders of Class B Units.

          "Class B Minimum Investment" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 8.4(b)(ii).

          "Class B Units" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.5
hereof.

6

"Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from
time to time, or any corresponding provisions of succeeding law.

          "Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any
successor thereto.

          "Company" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.

          "Company Assets" shall mean all right, title and interest of the
Company and the Subsidiaries in and to all or any portion of the assets and
property, whether tangible or intangible and whether real, personal or mixed, of
the Company and the Subsidiaries including any direct or indirect interests
therein, and any property (real or personal) or estate or direct or indirect
interests therein acquired in exchange therefor or in connection therewith.

          "Company FFO" shall mean, with respect to any period, the funds from
operations of the Company as calculated in the manner that "Company FFO" is
calculated pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement.

          "Company Minimum Gain" shall have the meaning set forth in Sections
1.704-2(b)(2) and (d)(1) of the Regulations.

          "Contributed Entities" shall mean the Altamonte Entities, the Natick
Entities, the Northbrook Entities, the Stonebriar Entities, the Alderwood Mall
Owner and the Carolina Mall Owner.

          "Contribution Agreements" shall mean the Alderwood Mall Contribution
Agreement, the Altamonte Mall Contribution Agreement, the Carolina Place
Contribution Agreement, the Montclair Plaza Contribution Agreement, the Natick
Mall Contribution Agreement, the Northbrook Court Contribution Agreement and the
Stonebriar Development Project Contribution Agreement.

          "Contribution Default Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 14.2.

          "Contribution Defaulting Member" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 14.2.

          "Contribution Default Loan" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 14.2.

          "Contribution Default Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 14.2.

          "Contribution Non-Defaulting Member" shall have the meaning set forth
in Section 14.2.

7

"CMBS Financing" shall mean the financing, which is anticipated to
close on or before November 30, 1999, pursuant to which the Northbrook Court
Owner, the Alderwood Mall Owner and Carolina Place Owner and certain
subsidiaries of GGP/Homart will issue collateralized mortgage-backed securities.

          "Defaulting Member" shall mean a Contribution Defaulting Member or
Retained Debt Defaulting Member.

          "Default Loan" shall mean a Contribution Default Loan or Retained Debt
Default Loan.

          "Development Manager" shall mean, for so long as GGPLP is a Member,
GGPLP, General Growth Management, Inc. or another Affiliate of GG Properties (in
each case, so long as the same is an Affiliate of GGPLP or GG Properties)
designated by GGPLP to act as the development manager of the Company or one or
more of its Subsidiaries pursuant to Section 7.3(b).

          "Dissolution Commencement Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 11.1.

          "Dissolution Commencement Notice Effective Date" shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 11.4.

          "Dissolution Right" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.1.

          "Dissolution Value of a Property" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 11.7(b).

          "Dissolution Value of the Company" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 9.3.

          "Electing Class" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
8.4(c)(i).

          "Entity" shall mean a corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, trust, business trust, unincorporated organization, government or any
agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.

          "ERISA" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.9(c).

          "Event" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.7.

          "Expenditures" for a given period of time shall mean a sum equal to
the aggregate of expenses, charges, costs and other amounts actually paid or
required to be paid during such period of time in connection with the business
of the Company or the properties owned by the Company or any wholly-owned
Subsidiary in accordance with the terms hereof, including:

8

(a) expenditures, costs, fees and charges in connection with
          the ownership, operation, management or leasing of the properties of
          the Company or any wholly-owned Subsidiary, including all fees and
          reimbursement amounts payable pursuant to Section 7.3;

                    (b) expenditures, costs and charges in connection with the
          repair, maintenance, replacement, alteration or addition or capital
          improvement to any property owned by the Company or a wholly-owned
          Subsidiary, including any casualty or condemnation losses to the
          extent that such losses are not reimbursed during such period by any
          third party responsible therefor or through insurance maintained by
          the Company or any wholly-owned Subsidiary;

                    (c) all payments of scheduled amortization of principal,
          interest, points or fees on, or hedging costs associated with, the
          mortgage loans or other loans to the Company or its wholly-owned
          Subsidiaries, including upon any refinancing thereof;

                    (d) all sales, payroll, real estate, personal property,
          occupancy and other excise, income, franchise, property, privilege or
          similar taxes and assessments imposed upon the Company, any
          wholly-owned Subsidiary, or any of their properties;

                    (e) utility costs and deposits and other costs and deposits
          required to obtain or lease any service or equipment relating to the
          Company, any property owned by the Company or a wholly-owned
          Subsidiary;

                    (f) leasing commissions and expenditures required to be made
          in connection with any lease covering space in or at any property
          owned by the Company or a wholly-owned Subsidiary, including tenant
          improvements, tenant allowances and payments, costs incurred in
          connection with assuming a tenant's lease obligations with respect to
          other real property and costs incurred in connection with the exercise
          of a right to "take-back" space in a property owned by the Company or
          a wholly-owned Subsidiary;

                    (g) the Reserve Amount;

                    (h) the fees and expenses of investment bankers, attorneys,
          accountants, architects, engineers, appraisers and other professionals
          retained by or on behalf of the Company or its wholly-owned
          Subsidiaries in accordance with the terms hereof;

                    (i) the transfer taxes, title insurance premiums, survey
          costs, attorneys fees, costs of environmental reports and

9

other costs and expenses to be paid by the Company pursuant to the
          Contribution Agreements; and

                    (j) all other costs and expenses of the Company and the
          wholly-owned Subsidiaries incurred in accordance with this Agreement
          or as determined by the Board.

          Notwithstanding the foregoing, there shall be excluded from
Expenditures:

                    (1) all non-cash items such as depreciation and
          amortization;

                    (2) amounts distributed to the Members pursuant to this
          Agreement;

                    (3) all payments and expenses taken into account in
          determining Net Disposition Proceeds;

                    (4) any expenditure, cost or charge enumerated in clauses
          (a) through (i) above incurred in connection with the development of
          the Stonebriar Development Project in accordance with the Stonebriar
          Development Plan to the extent of the additional Capital Contributions
          that are made pursuant to Article XIV;

                    (5) all payments of principal, interest and other amounts in
          respect of the Retained Debt; and

                    (6) any expenditure, cost or charge enumerated in clauses
          (a) through (j) above (other than clause (g)) to the extent such
          expenditure, cost or charge was paid from Cash Reserves.

          "Fair Market Value" shall mean, with respect to a particular asset or
interest, the price at which informed and willing parties dealing at arm's
length value and under no compulsion to sell or purchase would agree to purchase
or sell such asset or interest, taking into account, among other things, the
anticipated cash flow, taxable income or taxable loss attributable to the asset
or interest in question. In the case of any asset other than a marketable
security and unless the method of determining Fair Market Value is otherwise
provided herein, the Fair Market Value shall be determined by agreement of the
Members. In the case of any marketable security at any date and unless the
method of determining Fair Market Value is otherwise provided herein, the Fair
Market Value of such security shall equal the closing sale price of such
security on the business day (on which any national securities exchange is open
for the normal transaction of business) next preceding such date, as appearing
in any published list of any national securities exchange or in the National
Market List of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., or, if
there is

10

no such closing sale price of such security, the final price of such security at
face value quoted on such business day by a financial institution of recognized
standing which regularly deals in securities of such type.

          "Financing Documents" shall mean any loan agreement, security
agreement, mortgage, deed of trust, indenture, bond, note, tax debenture or
other instrument or agreement, in each case as amended, relating to indebtedness
of the Company or any Subsidiary for borrowed money, an obligation which is
represented by one or more securities issued by the Company or any Subsidiary or
any tax increment financing of the Company or any Subsidiary.

          "FTC" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.6.

          "Funding Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14.1.

          "GAAP" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States of America as in effect from time to time.

          "General Growth Officers" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
7.3.

          "General Growth Share Closing Price" on any date shall mean, with
respect to the GG Stock, the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such
sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices,
regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated
transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to
trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the GG Stock is not listed or
admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported in the principal
consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on
the principal national securities exchange on which the GG Stock is listed or
admitted to trading or, if the GG Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on
any national securities exchange, the last quoted price, or if not so quoted,
the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market,
as reported by NASDAQ or, if such system is no longer in use, the principal
other automated quotations system that may then be in use or, if the GG Stock is
not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked
prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the GG
Stock as such person is selected from time to time by the Board of Directors of
GG Properties.

          "GG Stock" shall mean the common stock, par value $.10 per share, of
GG Properties.

          "GGP/Homart" shall mean GGP/Homart, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

11

"GGPLP" shall mean GGP Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited
partnership.

          "GGPLP Retained Debt" shall mean the debt described on Schedule VI.

          "GG Properties" shall mean General Growth Properties, Inc., a Delaware
corporation or any successor thereof.

          "HSR" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.6.

          "Independent Board Members" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 8.4(c)(i).

          "Initial Properties" shall mean Alderwood Mall, Altamonte Mall,
Carolina Place, Montclair Plaza, Natick Mall, Northbrook Court and the
Stonebriar Development Project.

          "Investment Company Act" shall mean the Investment Company Act of
1940, as the same may be amended from time to time.

          "IRS" shall mean the Internal Revenue Service.

          "Key Documents" all Financing Documents, partnership agreements,
limited liability company agreements or other joint venture agreements to which
the Company (or its Subsidiaries) is a party or by which the Company (or its
Subsidiaries) is bound, management agreements to which the Company (or its
Subsidiaries) is a party or by which the Company (or its Subsidiaries) is bound,
reciprocal easement agreements (including supplemental agreements) to which the
Company (or its Subsidiaries) is a party or by which the Company (or its
Subsidiaries) is bound, each lease for space in a Property of more than 10,000
square feet service agreements relating to the operation of the Properties, all
material permits and licenses relating to the Properties and all material
easements and other recorded and unrecorded material agreements relating to the
Properties or to which the Company (or its Subsidiaries) is a party or by which
the Company (or its Subsidiaries) is bound, in each case as amended.

          "Letter of Intent" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.7.

          "Lien" shall mean any mortgage, deed of trust, security interest,
lien, pledge, claim or other encumbrance.

          "Liquidating Member" shall mean GGPLP (as long as it is a Member) or
such other Person as may be selected by the Board.

          "Member Nonrecourse Deductions" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 1.704-2(i)(2) of the Regulations.

12

"Members" shall mean GGPLP and NYSCRF and their duly admitted
successors or assigns (in each case, for so long as such Person remains a Member
of the Company) and any other Person who is a member of the Company at the time
of reference thereto (and, prior to such time, has been admitted as a member of
the Company in accordance with the terms hereof).

          "Minimum Gain Attributable to Member Nonrecourse Debt" shall mean
"partner nonrecourse debt minimum gain" as determined in accordance with
Regulation Section 1.704-2(i)(2).

          "Montclair Plaza" shall mean the property commonly known as Montclair
Plaza, Los Angeles, California, more particularly described in the Montclair
Plaza Contribution Agreement.

          "Montclair Plaza Contribution Agreement" shall mean that certain
Contribution Agreement dated concurrently herewith pursuant to which NYSCRF is
causing Montclair Plaza Owner to convey to the Company Montclair Plaza and
certain other property described therein.

          "Montclair Plaza Owner" shall mean Acquiport Five Corporation, a
Delaware corporation.

          "Natick Entities" shall mean Natick Trust, General Growth Properties -
Natick Limited Partnership and General Growth Properties - Natick II, Inc.

          "Natick Mall" shall mean the property commonly known as Natick Mall,
Natick, Massachusetts, as more particularly described in the Natick Mall
Contribution Agreement.

          "Natick Mall Contribution Agreement" shall mean that certain
Contribution Agreement dated concurrently herewith pursuant to which GGPLP
conveys or causes to be conveyed to the Company all of the equity interests in
the Natick Entities, which Natick Entities own one hundred percent (100%) of the
Natick Owner which in turn owns one hundred percent (100%) of the Natick Mall.

          "Natick Mall Owner" shall mean GGP-Natick Trust, a Massachusetts
business trust.

          "Natick Trust" shall mean GGP-Natick Trust, a Massachusetts business
trust.

          "Net Disposition Proceeds" shall mean the excess of (a) the proceeds
received by the Company or any wholly-owned Subsidiary (including amounts
received by the Company or any wholly-owned Subsidiary from non-wholly owned
Subsidiaries) from any event that would be deemed a capital transaction in
accordance with GAAP consistently applied, including sales of real or personal
property or interests therein (other than the sale of personal property in

13

the ordinary course of business), condemnations and conveyances in lieu thereof,
damage recoveries, receipts of insurance proceeds (other than rent insurance
proceeds, the proceeds of which shall not be included in the calculation of Net
Disposition Proceeds), and borrowings (other than short-term unsecured
borrowings, the proceeds of which shall not be included in the calculation of
Net Disposition Proceeds), over (b) the sum of (i) the expenses or capital
expenditures of the Company or such wholly-owned Subsidiary associated with such
transaction (including title, survey, appraisal, recording, escrow, transfer tax
and other similar costs, brokerage expense and attorneys and other professional
fees, the portion of any insurance proceeds or condemnation award applied to the
restoration of the affected property and payment or reservation for payment for
the discharge of any liability arising pursuant to such transaction), (ii)
amounts required (in the Board's discretion or, if contemplated in an approved
Annual Business Plan, as set forth in such Annual Business Plan) to establish
reserves and to pay current or potential expenses and liabilities of the Company
and the Subsidiaries, (iii) amounts used or reserved (in the Board's discretion
or, if contemplated in an approved Annual Business Plan, as set forth in such
Annual Business Plan) to repay indebtedness of the Company and the Subsidiaries
or any other liability of the Company or any Subsidiary in connection with such
event and (iv) amounts used or reserved (in the Board's discretion or, if
contemplated in an approved Annual Business Plan, as set forth in such Annual
Business Plan) to fund the estimated equity requirements for any expansions or
renovations of the Company Assets (but the amounts described in clauses (a) and
(b) shall not include the proceeds of any permitted replacement or refinancing
of Retained Debt, the additional Capital Contributions made pursuant to Article
XIV or any payments of principal, interest and other amounts in respect of
Retained Debt).

          "Net Income" or "Net Loss" shall mean, for each Fiscal Year or other
applicable period, an amount equal to the Company's taxable income or loss for
such year or period, determined by the Company accountants in accordance with
Section 703(a) of the Code (for this purpose, all items of income, gain, loss or
deduction required to be stated separately pursuant to Section 703(a) of the
Code shall be included in taxable income or loss), with the following
adjustments:

                    (a) any income of the Company that is exempt from federal
          income tax and not otherwise taken into account in computing Net
          Income or Net Loss shall be added to such taxable income or loss;

                    (b) any expenditures of the Company described in Section
          705(a)(2)(B) of the Code or treated as Code Section 705(a)(2)(B)
          expenditures under Section 704(b) of the Code or Section
          1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(i) of the Regulations and not

14

otherwise taken into account in computing Net Income or Net Loss shall
          be subtracted from such taxable income or loss;

                    (c) gain or loss resulting from any disposition of Company
          property with respect to which gain or loss is recognized for federal
          income tax purposes shall be computed by reference to the book value
          of such property (as the same may be restated or otherwise adjusted
          pursuant to Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)) rather than its
          adjusted tax basis;

                    (d) in lieu of the depreciation, depletion, amortization and
          other cost recovery deductions taken into account in computing taxable
          income or loss, there shall be taken into account depreciation as
          determined under Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(g)(3); and

                    (e) in the event the book value of any Company asset is
          restated and/or adjusted pursuant the aforesaid Regulation Sections,
          the amount of such adjustment shall be taken into account as
          additional Net Income or Net Loss, as the case may be.

          "Net Sales Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.7.

          "Non-Defaulting Member" shall mean a Contribution Non-Defaulting
Member or Retained Debt Non-Defaulting Member.

          "Nonrecourse Deductions" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
1.704-2(b)(1) and (c) of the Regulations.

          "Nonrecourse Liabilities" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
1.704-2(b)(3) of the Regulations.

          "Northbrook Court" shall mean the property commonly known as
Northbrook Court, Northbrook, Illinois as more particularly described in the
Northbrook Court Contribution Agreement.

          "Northbrook Court Contribution Agreement" shall mean that certain
Contribution Agreement dated concurrently herewith pursuant to which GGPLP
conveys or causes to be conveyed to the Company all of the equity interests in
the Northbrook Entities, which Northbrook Entities own, in the aggregate, one
hundred percent (100%) of the Northbrook Court Owner which in turn owns one
hundred percent (100%) of Northbrook Court.

          "Northbrook Court Owner" shall mean Westcoast Estates, a California
general partnership.

          "Northbrook Entities" shall mean Northbrook Court L.L.C., Northbrook
Court I L.L.C. and Northbrook Court II L.L.C.

15

"NYSCRF" shall mean the Comptroller of the State of New York as
Trustee of the Common Retirement Fund.

          "NYSCRF Malls" shall mean Alderwood Mall, Carolina Place and Montclair
Plaza.

          "NYSCRF Retained Debt" shall mean the debt described on Schedule VII.

          "Offerees" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.

          "Offerors" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.

          "Operating Cash Flow" for any given period of time means the excess,
if any, of (i) the Receipts for such period of time over (ii) the Expenditures
for such period of time.

          "Other Assets" shall mean, as of any date, the book value of the cash
and receivables (net of contra accounts) of the Company and its Subsidiaries
calculated in accordance with GAAP consistently applied.

          "Permissible Transferee" shall have the meaning set forth in section
8.4(b)(iii).

          "Person" shall mean an individual or Entity.

          "Plan Asset Regulations" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
7.9(c).

          "Prime" shall mean the prime rate as announced from time to time by
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.

          "Property Manager" shall mean, for so long as GGPLP is a Member,
GGPLP, General Growth Management, Inc. or another Affiliate of GG Properties (in
each case, so long as the same is an Affiliate of GGPLP or GG Properties)
designated by GGPLP to act as the property manager for the Company or one or
more of its Subsidiaries pursuant to Section 7.3(b).

          "Properties" shall mean the Initial Properties and the Company's
direct or indirect interest in any of the foregoing and any additional shopping
center or other real estate properties or direct or indirect interests therein
acquired (directly or indirectly) by the Company from time to time.

          "Proportionate Share" shall mean, with respect to any Member (unless
otherwise provided herein) at any time, a fraction, the numerator of which is
the total number of Units owned by such Member at such time and the denominator
of which is the total number of Units owned by all of the Members at such time.

16

"Proposed Value" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2.

          "Put Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2.

          "Put Notice Effective Date" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 9.4.

          "Put Option" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.

          "Put Purchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.6.

          "Put Response Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.5.

          "Receipts" shall mean for any given period of time, a sum equal to the
aggregate of all cash amounts actually received by or unconditionally made
available to the Company or any wholly-owned Subsidiary from or in respect of
all sources, including:

                    (a) all cash actually received by the Company or any
          wholly-owned Subsidiary from Subsidiaries that are not wholly-owned by
          the Company;

                    (b) all rents, percentage rent, rent settlements, expense
          reimbursements and other charges received from tenants and other
          occupants of the Company Assets;

                    (c) proceeds of rent insurance and business interruption
          insurance;

                    (d) all utility or other deposits returned to the Company or
          any wholly-owned Subsidiary (including by any non-wholly owned
          Subsidiary);

                    (e) interest, if any, earned on tenant's security deposits
          or escrows to the extent unconditionally retained and security
          deposits to the extent applied pursuant to the provisions of the
          applicable leases;

                    (f) the amount of any net reduction of Cash Reserves, other
          than to pay Expenditures;

                    (g) any income items (as defined in accordance with GAAP)
          received by the Company from any other source and not included in (a)
          through (f) above.

                    Notwithstanding the foregoing, Receipts shall not include
(1) any amounts received by the Company and/or the Subsidiaries on account of
the issuance or sale by the Company and/or the Subsidiaries of any securities,
(2) any tenant's security deposit

17

and interest thereon, if any, as long as the Company or any Subsidiary has a
contingent legal obligation to return that deposit or such interest thereon, (3)
any amounts included in the calculation of Net Disposition Proceeds, (4) any
amounts received in respect of a permitted refinancing or replacement of the
Retained Debt and (5) any additional Capital Contribution made pursuant to
Article XIV.

          "Regulations" means the proposed, temporary and final regulations
promulgated by the Treasury Department pursuant to the Code, as amended from
time to time.

          "Required Funds Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
14.1.

          "Reserve Amount" shall mean for any given period of time an amount or
amounts to be held from Receipts after payment of Expenditures (other than the
Reserve Amount) as determined by the Board and which shall be used (in amounts
and in a manner determined by the Board) for the payment of capital improvements
for the properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries (such as major repairs or
replacements to the roofs or parking lots) or such other items as may be
determined from time to time by the Board.

          "Retained Debt" shall mean the GGPLP Retained Debt and the NYSCRF
Retained Debt, collectively.

          "Retained Debt Default Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 13.2.

          "Retained Debt Defaulting Member" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 13.2.

          "Retained Debt Default Loan" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 13.2.

          "Retained Debt Default Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 13.2.

          "Retained Debt Loan Documents" shall mean the notes, mortgages and
other loan documents evidencing, securing or otherwise relating to the Retained
Debt.

          "Retained Debt Non-Defaulting Member" shall have the meaning set forth
in Section 13.2.

          "Rules" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.6.

          "Sale Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2.

18

"Sale Property" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1.

          "Second Cure Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
7.3(c).

          "Section 704(c) Tax Items" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
4.5(c).

          "Serial Transferee" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
8.4(b)(iii).

          "Serial Transferor" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
8.4(b)(iii).

          "Stockholders Agreement" shall mean that certain Stockholders
Agreement dated as of December 20, 1995, among GGPLP, NYSCRF, GGP/Homart and the
other parties thereto, as amended.

          "Stonebriar Development Plan" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 7.7(e).

          "Stonebriar Development Project Contribution Agreement" shall mean
that certain Contribution Agreement dated concurrently herewith pursuant to
which GGPLP conveys or causes to be conveyed to the Company all of the equity
interests in the Stonebriar Entities, which Stonebriar Entities own one hundred
percent (100%) of the Stonebriar Mall Owner which in turn owns one hundred
percent (100%) of the Stonebriar Development Project.

          "Stonebriar Development Project" shall mean the regional shopping
center to be known as Stonebriar Mall and developed on the land located in
Frisco, Texas and that is owned by the Stonebriar Mall Owner, as such land is
more particularly described in the Stonebriar Development Project Contribution
Agreement.

          "Stonebriar Entities" shall mean Stonebriar Mall L.L.C. and Stonebriar
Mall Limited Partnership.

          "Stonebriar Grand Opening" shall mean the "grand opening" of the
Stonebriar Development Project.

          "Stonebriar Mall Owner" shall mean Stonebriar Mall Limited
Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership.

          "Subsidiaries" shall mean any direct or indirect corporate,
partnership, limited liability company, trust or other subsidiary of the
Company, whether or not wholly owned by the Company, and a "Subsidiary" shall
mean any one of them.

          "Tax Items" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.5(a).

19

"Tax Matters Member" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.

          "Tax Payment" shall have the meaning set forth in Article V.

          "Ten Day Average General Growth Closing Price" shall mean, with
respect to any purchase and sale pursuant to Article IX, the average of the
General Growth Share Closing Prices for each of the ten Trading Days following
the date the Put Response Notice is given.

          "33 Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

          "Trading Day" shall mean a day on which the principal national
securities exchange on which the GG Stock is listed or admitted to trading is
open for the transaction of business or, if the GG Stock is not listed or
admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, shall mean any day
other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the
State of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to
close.

          "Transfer" shall mean to transfer, sell, assign, pledge, hypothecate,
give, create a security interest in or lien on, place in trust (voting or
otherwise), transfer by operation of law (other than by way of a merger or
consolidation of the Company) or in any other way encumber or dispose of,
directly or indirectly and whether or not voluntarily, any Units.

          "Transferee" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.1.

          "Trigger Date" shall mean the earlier of (a) the third anniversary of
the date hereof, (b) the date a Change of Control occurs, (c) the date of the
determination that Cause has occurred pursuant to Section 7.3(d) and (e) and (d)
that date that the Class A Members no longer owns the Class A Minimum
Investment.

          "UBTI" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.9.

          "Units" shall mean units of membership interest in the Company,
including (except as otherwise expressly provided herein) the rights to
allocations, distributions, management, approval and participation provided
herein.

          "Value" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.3.

For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or
unless the context otherwise requires:

                    (a) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other
          words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to
          any particular Article, Section or other subdivision;

20

(b) the words "including" and "include" and other words of
          similar import shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without
          limitation"; and

                    (c) any capitalized term used in any Schedule to this
          Agreement but not defined in such Schedule shall have the meaning
          assigned to such term in this Agreement or in another Schedule to this
          Agreement.

                                   ARTICLE II
                              FORMATION OF COMPANY

          2.1 FORMATION OF COMPANY. The Company was formed as a limited
liability Company under the Act on August 6, 1999 by the filing of the
Certificate of Formation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on
August 6, 1999. The parties hereby ratify the execution and filing thereof by
the authorized person (within the meaning of the Act) identified therein. It is
the intention of the Members that the provisions of this Agreement govern their
relations and their respective liabilities and obligations. Accordingly, to the
extent permitted by law, in the event of any conflict between any provisions
contained in this Agreement and any provision in the Act, the terms and
provisions of this Agreement shall control. With respect to any matter not
governed by this Agreement, the provisions of the Act shall control.

          2.2 NAME. The business of the Company shall be conducted under the
name "GGP/HOMART II L.L.C." or such other name or names as are designated by the
management of the Company from time to time. All transactions of the Company, to
the extent permitted by applicable law, shall be carried on and completed in the
name of the Company or such other name or names as shall be designated by the
management of the Company in writing from time to time. The Members shall cause
to be executed, filed and published on behalf of the Company such assumed or
fictitious name certificates as may be required by law to be filed or published.

          2.3 PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The location of the Company's
principal place of business shall be at 110 North Wacker Drive, Chicago,
Illinois 60606 or such other place in the United States as is designated by the
management of the Company from time to time.

          2.4 PURPOSE AND BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY. The purpose of the Company
shall be to acquire, hold, own, operate, sell, finance, transfer, encumber,
exchange and otherwise dispose of or deal with the equity interests in the
Contributed Entities and, directly or indirectly, to acquire, develop,
redevelop, hold, own, sell, finance, transfer, encumber, exchange, and otherwise
dispose of or deal with the Properties (including the acquisition and
development

21

of land or properties adjacent to the Properties) and such other properties and
assets as shall be determined by the Board. The Company shall have all powers
necessary or desirable to accomplish the purposes enumerated. The Company shall
not, directly or indirectly, acquire any other assets or businesses (other than
in connection with the Properties, including the acquisition and development of
land or properties adjacent to the Properties) except with approval of the
Board. The name and funds of the Company shall be used only for Company
purposes.

          2.5 CLASSES OF UNITS. There shall be, initially, two classes of Units,
consisting of Class A Units ("Class A Units") and Class B Units (the "Class B
Units"), which shall have the rights and be subject to the limitations contained
herein.

          2.6 TERM. The Company shall commence business on the date hereof and
shall continue its business indefinitely until its termination as hereinafter
provided.

          2.7 NATURE OF THE COMPANY. It is intended that the Company be a
limited liability company meeting the definition of "partnership" contained in
Section 7701 of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder. Except for
purposes of the Code, the Members specifically intend and agree that the Company
shall not be a partnership (including, a limited partnership) or any other kind
of venture or Person, but a limited liability company under and pursuant to the
Act. The Company's Certificate of Formation, this Agreement and the
relationships created thereby and hereby and arising therefrom shall not be
construed to establish a partnership as among the Members or any other Person or
to constitute any Member a partner in the Company or a partner of any other
Member or Person. All rights, liabilities and obligations of the Members, both
as among themselves and as to Persons not parties to this Agreement, shall be as
provided in the Act, except to such extent as may be otherwise expressly
provided herein.

          2.8 MEMBERS' NAMES AND ADDRESSES; CLASSIFICATION. The name and mailing
address of each Member and the number and classification of Units owned by such
Member is listed on Schedule I attached hereto.

          2.9 REGISTERED OFFICE AND REGISTERED AGENT. The address of the
registered office of the Company in the State of Delaware is c/o Corporation
Service Company, 1013 Centre Road, Wilmington, Delaware 19805-1297. The name of
its registered agent at such address is Corporation Service Company. The
Company's management may at any time and from time to time change such office or
agent by taking such actions as are required by the Act to change the same,
including executing and filing an amendment to the Certificate of Formation.

22

2.10 ORGANIZATION CERTIFICATES. The Members shall cause to be
executed, filed and/or published:

                    (a) any and all such amendments or supplements to the
          Company's Certificate of Formation as from time to time may be
          required by the Act; and

                    (b) all such further certificates, notices, statements or
          other instruments as may be required by law for the formation,
          qualification or operation of a limited liability company in all
          jurisdictions where the Company may elect to do business or otherwise
          necessary to carry out the purposes of this Agreement.

GGPLP shall be an authorized person of the Company for purposes of any filings
under the Act and shall be authorized to execute and deliver on behalf of the
Company any certificates, notices, statements or other instruments required
under the Act to be executed and filed by the Company.

          2.11 CONCURRENT TRANSACTIONS. The Members acknowledge and agree that,
concurrently with the execution and delivery hereof:

                    (a) The Company and GGPLP are entering into the Altamonte
Mall Contribution Agreement, the Northbrook Court Contribution Agreement, the
Natick Mall Contribution Agreement and the Stonebriar Development Project
Contribution Agreement;

                    (b) The Company and NYSCRF (and/or Subsidiaries thereof) are
entering into the Alderwood Mall Contribution Agreement, the Carolina Place
Contribution Agreement and the Montclair Plaza Contribution Agreement; and

                    (c) The Company and certain of the Contributed Entities are
entering into modification agreements with respect to certain indebtedness
secured by Company Assets, if required by the lenders thereunder.

          The Members, by execution of this Agreement, hereby authorize, approve
and consent to (i) the Company entering into and consummating the transactions
described in the Contribution Agreements and (ii) the Company's acquisition of
the equity interests in the Contributed Entities and/or the Properties on the
terms set forth in the Contribution Agreements.

          2.12 RESTRICTIONS ON OTHER AGREEMENTS. No Member shall grant any proxy
or enter into or agree to be bound by any voting trust with respect to the
Units, nor shall any Member enter into any agreement or arrangements of any kind
(including agreements or arrangements with respect to the acquisition,
disposition or voting of Units) with any Person with respect to the Units, in
either case on terms inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.

23

ARTICLE III
                                 COMPANY CAPITAL

          3.1 INITIAL CONTRIBUTIONS OF MEMBERS

                    (a) Concurrently herewith and as their Capital Contributions
to the Company, the Members are conveying or causing to be conveyed to the
Company and/or its Subsidiaries all of the equity interests in the Contributed
Entities and/or their respective rights, title and interest in the Initial
Properties in accordance with the terms of the Contribution Agreements.

                    (b) The Members acknowledge and agree that immediately after
taking into account the Capital Contributions described in Section 3.1(a), GGPLP
will have a positive Capital Account balance of $462,000,000.00 and NYSCRF will
have a positive Capital Account balance of $462,000,000.00. Such Capital
Accounts are being computed without reduction for the Retained Debt.

          3.2 NO ADDITIONAL CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS. Except as expressly required
by Section 3.1 or Article XIII, no Member shall have any obligation to make any
additional Capital Contribution to the Company or to advance any funds thereto.

          3.3 WITHDRAWAL; RETURN OF CAPITAL; INTEREST. No Member shall be
entitled to withdraw any part of its Capital Contribution(s) or otherwise
withdraw from the Company, or shall be entitled to any distributions from the
Company, except as specifically provided herein. No Member shall be entitled to
interest on any Capital Contribution to the Company.

          3.4 PRIORITY. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, there
shall be no priority among the Members as to the return of Capital Contributions
or withdrawals from or distributions of the Company.

          3.5 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT FUNDING/ACQUISITION FINANCING; ETC. It is the
intention of the Members that development of the Stonebriar Development Project
be funded as provided in the other sections of this Agreement, including Article
XIV, and the cost of acquiring new properties be funded through such sources of
financing as shall be determined by the Board. The Members agree that (a) in
calculating the Net Disposition Proceeds from the CMBS Financing (which
financing requires Board approval as provided herein), the proceeds from such
financing shall be reduced only for the costs and expenses associated with such
financing and the repayment of the existing debt on Northbrook Court (and not by
any of the other items specified in the definition of "Net Disposition
Proceeds") and (ii) the Net Disposition Proceeds from such financing shall be
distributed to the Members concurrently with the consummation of such financing
and otherwise as provided in Article V.

24

ARTICLE IV
                           ALLOCATION OF COMPANY ITEMS

          4.1 MAINTENANCE OF CAPITAL ACCOUNTS. A separate Capital Account shall
be maintained for each Member. Without limiting the foregoing, the Capital
Account of each Member shall be (a) credited with the Member's Capital
Contribution(s) plus the amount of Net Income allocated or specially allocated
to such Member pursuant to this Agreement and (ii) debited with the sum of (i)
the amount of Net Loss allocated or specially allocated to such Member pursuant
to the provisions of this Agreement and all money and the Fair Market Value of
any property paid or distributed by the Company to such Member pursuant to the
terms hereof. Any reference in this Agreement to the Capital Account of a Member
shall be deemed to refer to such Capital Account as the same may be credited or
debited from time to time in accordance herewith.

          4.2 NET INCOME AND NET LOSS

                    (a) Allocation of Net Income. After giving effect to the
          allocations set forth in Sections 4.3 and 4.4, Net Income for any
          Fiscal Year or other applicable period (including the period ending on
          the date on which there is a withdrawal of any Member or a partial
          withdrawal of the capital of any Member or the period ending on the
          date immediately preceding the date on which an additional Capital
          Contribution is made to the Company by a Member in accordance with the
          terms hereof) shall be allocated among the Members in accordance with
          their Proportionate Shares at such time.

                    (b) Allocation of Net Loss. After giving effect to the
          allocations set forth in Sections 4.3 and 4.4, Net Loss for any Fiscal
          Year or other applicable period (including the period ending on the
          date on which there is a withdrawal of any Member or a partial
          withdrawal of the capital of any Member or the period ending on the
          date immediately preceding the date on which an additional Capital
          Contribution is made to the Company by a Member in accordance with the
          terms hereof) shall be allocated between the Members in accordance
          with their Proportionate Shares at such time.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the interest expense
and/or other deductions and items of income relating to the Retained Debt of
each Member shall remain at all times the expense and/or income of such Member
and shall not be taken into account in calculating Net Income or Net Loss.

25

4.3 SPECIAL ALLOCATIONS. Notwithstanding any provisions of Section 4.2
to the contrary, the following special allocations shall be made in the
following order:

                    (a) Minimum Gain Chargeback (Nonrecourse Liabilities).
          Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Article IV,
          if there is a net decrease in Company Minimum Gain for any Fiscal Year

(except as a result of conversion or refinancing of Company
          Nonrecourse Liabilities, certain capital contributions or revaluation
          of the Company property, all as further outlined in subsections
          (d)(2), (f)(2), or (f)(3) of Regulations Section 1.704-2), each Member
          shall be specially allocated items of Company income and gain for such
          year (and, if necessary, subsequent years) in an amount equal to that
          Member's share of the net decrease in the Company Minimum Gain. The
          items to be so allocated shall be determined in accordance with
          Regulations Section 1.702-2(f). This section is intended to comply
          with the minimum gain chargeback requirement in said section of the
          Regulations and shall be interpreted consistently therewith.
          Allocations pursuant to this section shall be made in proportion to
          the respective amounts required to be allocated to each Member
          pursuant thereto.

                    (b) Minimum Gain Attributable to Member Nonrecourse Debt.
          After giving effect to Section 4.3(a), if there is a net decrease in
          Minimum Gain Attributable To Member Nonrecourse Debt (other than due
          to the conversion, refinancing, or other change in the debt instrument
          attributable to such Company Nonrecourse Liabilities causing it to
          become partially or wholly nonrecourse, certain capital contributions
          or revaluations of the Company property as further outlined in
          Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(4)), each Member shall be specially
          allocated items of Company income and gain for such Fiscal Year (and,
          if necessary, subsequent years) in an amount equal to that Member's
          share of the net decrease in such Minimum Gain Attributable To Member
          Nonrecourse Debt. The items to be so allocated shall be determined in
          accordance with Regulations Section 1.702-2(i). This section is
          intended to comply with the minimum gain chargeback requirement in
          said section of the Regulation and shall be interpreted consistently
          therewith. Allocations pursuant to this section shall be made in
          proportion to the respective amount required to be allocated to each
          Member pursuant thereto.

                    (c) Qualified Income Offset. In the event that any Member
          unexpectedly receives any adjustments, allocations or distributions
          described in Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5), or (6),
          and such Member has an Adjusted Capital Account Deficit, items of
          Company income and gain shall be specially allocated to such Member in
          an amount and manner sufficient to eliminate the Adjusted Capital

26

Account Deficit as quickly as possible. This Section 4.3(c) is
          intended to constitute a "qualified income offset" under Regulations
          Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) and shall be interpreted consistently
          therewith.

                    (d) Nonrecourse Deductions. Nonrecourse Deductions for any
          Fiscal Year or other applicable period shall be allocated to the
          Members in accordance with their respective Proportionate Shares.

                    (e) Member Nonrecourse Deductions. Member Nonrecourse
          Deductions for any Fiscal Year or other period shall be specially
          allocated to the Member that bears the economic risk of loss for the
          debt (i.e., the partner nonrecourse debt) in respect of which such
          Member Nonrecourse Deductions are attributable (as determined under
          Regulation Sections 1.704-2(b)(4) and (i)(1)).

                    (f) Section 754 Basis Adjustments. To the extent an
          adjustment to the adjusted tax basis of any Company asset pursuant to
          Sections 732, 734 or 743 of the Code is required, to be taken into
          account in determining Capital Accounts in accordance with Regulations
          Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m), the amount of such adjustment to the
          Capital Accounts shall be treated as an item of gain (if the
          adjustment increases the basis of the asset) or loss (if the
          adjustment decreases such basis) and such gain or loss shall be
          specially allocated to the Members in a manner consistent with the
          manner in which their Capital Accounts are required to be adjusted
          pursuant to such Section of the Regulations.

          4.4 CURATIVE ALLOCATIONS. The allocations set forth in Sections
4.3(a), 4.3(b), 4.3(d) and 4.3(e) (the "Regulatory Allocations") are intended to
comply with certain requirements of Regulations Section 1.704-1(b).
Notwithstanding any provisions of Sections 4.2 and 4.3 to the contrary (other
than the Regulatory Allocations), the Regulatory Allocations shall be taken into
account in allocating other items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the
Members so that, to the extent possible, the cumulative net amount of
allocations of Company items under Sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 shall be equal to
the net amount that would have been allocated had the Regulatory Allocations not
occurred. This Section 4.4 is intended to minimize to the extent possible and to
the extent necessary any economic distortions which may result from application
of the Regulatory Allocations and shall be interpreted in a manner consistent
therewith.

          4.5 TAX ALLOCATIONS.

                    (a) Generally. Subject to Sections 4.5(b) and 4.5(c), tax
          items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit (collectively, "Tax
          Items") shall be allocated among the

27

Members on the same basis as the respective book items. Each Member
          shall provide to the Company information regarding the tax basis,
          depreciable lives and depreciation methods of or used for the assets
          directly and indirectly conveyed by it to the Company.

                    (b) Sections 1245/1250 Recapture. If any portion of gain
          from the sale of property is treated as gain which is ordinary income
          by virtue of the application of Code Sections 1245 or 1250 ("Affected
          Gain"), then (A) such Affected Gain shall be allocated among the
          Members in the same proportion that the depreciation and amortization
          deductions giving rise to the Affected Gain were allocated and (B)
          other Tax Items of gain of the same character that would have been
          recognized, but for the application of Code Sections 1245 and/or 1250,
          shall be allocated away from those Members who are allocated Affected
          Gain pursuant to Clause (A) so that, to the extent possible, the other
          Members are allocated the same amount, and type, of capital gain that
          would have been allocated to them had Code Sections 1245 and/or 1250
          not applied. For purposes hereof, in order to determine the
          proportionate allocations of depreciation and amortization deductions
          for each Fiscal Year or other applicable period, such deductions shall
          be deemed allocated on the same basis as Net Income and Net Loss for
          such respective period.

                    (c) Allocations Respecting Section 704(c) and Revaluations.
          Notwithstanding Section 4.5(b), Tax Items with respect to Company
          property that are subject to Code Section 704(c) and/or Regulation
          Section 1.704-3 (collectively "Section 704(c) Tax Items") shall, to
          the extent so required, be allocated in accordance with said Code
          section and/or Regulation Section 1.704-3, as the case may be. The
          Members are authorized to specially allocate Tax Items consistent with
          the principles of Regulation Section 1.704-3.

          4.6 ALLOCATIONS SUBSEQUENT TO ASSIGNMENT. To the extent permitted by
the Code, Net Income or Net Loss and other items attributable to Units acquired
by reason of an assignment from a Member shall be allocated or adjusted between
the assignor and the assignee based upon either (a) the length of time in any
fiscal period of the Company during which the assigned Units were owned by each
of them, determined with reference to the effective date of the assignment, or
(b) an interim closing of the Company's books (at assignor's sole expense), such
manner of allocation or adjustment to be determined by the assignor, with the
consent of the Board, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.

28

ARTICLE V
                              COMPANY DISTRIBUTIONS

          Unless the Board otherwise determines, the Company shall distribute to
the Members on a quarterly basis (but a monthly basis during such period when
there is Retained Debt outstanding) an amount equal to the lesser of (a) the
Operating Cash Flow for such quarter or month, as the case may be, and (b)
eighty percent of Company FFO for such quarter or month, as the case may be, and
the Company shall distribute any Net Disposition Proceeds as soon as practicable
after the occurrence (but in no event later than 45 days thereafter) of the
event giving rise thereto. Subject to the provisions of the third, fourth and
fifth to last sentences of this Article V, any such distributions shall be paid
to the Members pro rata in accordance with their Proportionate Shares. If the
annual audited report of the Company shall show that there was any
over-distribution or under-distribution of Operating Cash Flow to either of the
Members with respect to such year, then such Member shall, within 30 days after
receipt of such audited report and a written demand for the repayment of any
over-distribution referenced therein, repay the over-distribution or the Company
shall, within 30 days after receipt of such audited report, pay the
under-distribution to the Members, as the case may be. To the extent that any
taxes or withholding taxes are due on behalf of or with respect to any Member
and the Company is required by law to withhold or to make such tax payments
("Tax Payments"), the Company shall withhold such amounts and make such Tax
Payments as so required. Each Tax Payment made on behalf of or with respect to a
Member (but not any Tax Payment made by or required to be withheld by a
Subsidiary with respect to income allocable to or distributions to be made to
the Company) shall be deemed a distribution of Operating Cash Flow in such
amount to such Member to the extent such Tax Payment was not attributable to an
event giving rise to Net Disposition Proceeds (and shall reduce distributions of
Operating Cash Flow and Net Disposition Proceeds that are made concurrently or
thereafter to such Member), and to the extent such Tax Payment is attributable
to an event giving rise to Net Disposition Proceeds, it shall be deemed a
distribution of Net Disposition Proceeds to such Member (and shall reduce
distributions of Net Disposition Proceeds and Operating Cash Flow that are made
concurrently or thereafter to such Member), and any such deemed distribution
shall be deemed to have been paid to the Member on the earlier of the date when
the corresponding Tax Payment is made by the Company or the date that the
distributions, if any, giving rise to the obligation to make such Tax Payment
were made. The Company is hereby directed to deduct the amount of any Default
Loans that are due and payable from any distributions to be made to the
Defaulting Member pursuant to this Article V and pay such amounts to the
Non-Defaulting Member (and such deducted amounts shall be deemed to be
distributions made to such Defaulting Member). In the event that the Company
pays any principal, interest or other amount in respect of the Retained Debt of
either

29

Member at the request of such Member (which the Company shall be obligated to do
to the extent of such Member's share of Company distributions that are then due
and payable), the Company shall deduct the amount of such principal, interest or
other payment from any distributions to be made to such Member pursuant to this
Article V (and such deducted amounts shall be deemed to be distributions made to
such Member). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, no
distribution of Operating Cash Flow or Net Disposition Proceeds shall be made
hereunder if such distribution would cause the Company to breach any covenant
contained in, or be in default under, any Financing Document or other agreement
binding upon the Company. The distributions made in accordance with this Article
V shall not require Board approval.

                                   ARTICLE VI
                               ACCOUNTING MATTERS

          6.1 FISCAL YEAR; DESIGNATION OF AUDITORS. The Company's fiscal year
shall be the calendar year. The Company's auditors shall be selected by the
Board; provided, however, that (a) until the Board determines otherwise, the
Company's auditors shall be Ernst & Young LLP, (b) the Company's auditors shall
be a "Big Five" certified public accounting firm (or any successor to any such
firm) or other reputable firm as shall be selected by the Board and (c) unless
the Board determines otherwise, the Company's auditors shall not be the auditors
of GGPLP or GG Properties.

          6.2 BOOKS AND RECORDS. The Company shall maintain or cause to be
maintained at the principal place of business of the Company full, true,
complete and correct books of account of the Company. The books of account shall
contain particulars of all monies, goods or effects belonging to or owing to or
by the Company or paid, received, sold or purchased in the course of the
Company's business, and all of such other transactions, matters and things
relating to the business of the Company as are usually entered in books of
accounts kept by persons engaged in a business of a like kind and character. In
addition, the Company shall keep all records required to be kept pursuant to the
Act. Each Member shall, at reasonable times, have free access thereto for the
purpose of inspecting or copying same. Any records maintained by the Company in
the regular course of its business, including its Unit ledger, books of account
and minute books, if any, may be kept on, or be in the form of, punch cards,
magnetic tape, photographs, microphotographs or any other information storage
device, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible
form within a reasonable time. The Company shall so convert any records so kept
upon the request of any person entitled to inspect the same.

30

6.3 REPORTS AND STATEMENTS.

                    (a) Not later than 45 days after the end of each fiscal
          quarter (other than the fourth quarter), the Company shall prepare (or
          cause to be prepared) and mail to each Member an unaudited report
          (prepared in accordance with GAAP except for the absence of footnotes)
          setting forth as of the end of such fiscal quarter:

                              (i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Company
                    and the Subsidiaries; and

                              (ii) a consolidated income statement of the
                    Company and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal quarter.

                    (b) Not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal
          year, the Company shall prepare (or cause to be prepared) and shall
          mail to each Member, a report (prepared in accordance with GAAP)
          setting forth as of the end of such fiscal year:

                              (i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Company
                    and the Subsidiaries (which will include appropriate
                    footnote disclosure) (and a consolidated balance sheet
                    prepared on a fair market value basis provided NYSCRF has
                    provided the fair market value of the Properties to be used
                    in preparing such balance sheet at least 30 days prior to
                    the date it is due and NYSCRF shall pay the cost of auditing
                    such balance sheet (which cost, notwithstanding anything to
                    the contrary contained herein, shall not be a Company
                    Expenditure);

                              (ii) an consolidated income statement of the
                    Company and the Subsidiaries for such fiscal year;

                              (iii) a consolidated statement of cash flows of
                    the Company and the Subsidiaries for such fiscal year; and

                              (iv) a statement of changes in Members' Capital
                    Accounts for such fiscal year.

The annual financial statements referred to in item (b) above shall be
accompanied by a report of the Company's independent certified public
accountants stating that an audit of such financial statements has been made in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, stating the opinion of
the accountants in respect of the financial statements and the accounting
principles and practices reflected therein and as to the consistency of the
application of the accounting principles, and identifying any matters to which
the accountants take exception and stating, to the extent practicable, the
effect of each such exception on such financial statements. The Company shall
provide to any Member such

31

supporting schedules and other data as may from time to time be reasonably
requested by such Member relating to the presentation of the Company's financial
statements.

                    (c) Not later than 45 days after the end of each of the
          first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year, the Company shall
          prepare (or cause to be prepared) and mail to each Member a report
          setting forth in reasonable detail a calculation of the Company's
          Operating Cash Flow and Net Disposition Proceeds for the immediately
          preceding quarter together with a comparison of the (i) Operating Cash
          Flow for the same fiscal quarter in the prior year, (ii) budgeted
          Operating Cash Flow for the quarter, based upon the Annual Business
          Plan approved by the Board covering such fiscal quarter and (iii) a
          status report of the Company's activities during such fiscal quarter
          substantially in the form of the quarterly status reports delivered in
          connection with GGP/Homart.

                    (d) Not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal
          year, the Company shall prepare (or cause to be prepared) and mail to
          each Member a report setting forth in reasonable detail a calculation
          of the Company's Operating Cash Flow and Net Disposition Proceeds for
          the immediately preceding fiscal year together with a comparison of
          the (i) Operating Cash Flow for the prior fiscal year and (ii)
          budgeted Operating Cash Flow for the fiscal year, based upon the
          Annual Business Plan approved by the Board for such prior fiscal year.

                    (e) Concurrently with each distribution of Operating Cash
          Flow pursuant to Article V, the Company shall deliver to each Member a
          report setting forth in reasonable detail a calculation of such
          Member's Proportionate Share of the Company's Operating Cash Flow for
          the immediately preceding quarter and the amount of the distribution
          for such period.

                    (f) Concurrently with each distribution of Net Disposition
          Proceeds, the Company shall deliver to each Member a report setting
          forth in reasonable detail a description of the transaction or
          transactions giving rise to the Net Disposition Proceeds, a
          calculation of the Net Disposition Proceeds, the Member's
          Proportionate Share of such Net Disposition Proceeds and the amount of
          the Net Disposition Proceeds being distributed to such Member.

                    (g) The Company shall prepare and deliver to each Member the
          reports set forth in Schedule II.

                    (h) The Company shall prepare and deliver to each Member
          such other reports as any Member shall reasonably require.

32

6.4 TAX MATTERS MEMBER. GGPLP is hereby designated as the Tax Matters
Member for the Company, which has the meaning of "tax matters partner" under
Section 6231(a)(7) of the Code; provided, however, (i) in exercising its
authority as Tax Matters Member, GGPLP shall be limited by the provisions of
this Agreement affecting tax aspects of the Company; (ii) the Tax Matters Member
shall consult in good faith with the Board regarding the filing of a Code
Section 6227(b) administrative adjustment request with respect to the Company
before filing such request, it being understood, however, that the provisions
hereof shall not be construed to limit the ability of any Member, to file an
administrative adjustment request on its own behalf pursuant to Section 6227(a)
of the Code; (iii) the Tax Matters Member shall consult in good faith with the
Board regarding the filing of a petition for judicial review of an
administrative adjustment request under Section 6228 of the Code, or a petition
for judicial review of a final partnership administrative judgment under Section
6226 of the Code relating to the Company before filing such petition; (iv) the
Tax Matters Member shall give prompt notice to the other Members of the receipt
of any written notice that the Internal Revenue Service or any state or local
taxing authority intends to examine Company income tax returns for any year,
receipt of written notice of the beginning of an administrative proceeding at
the Company level relating to the Company under Section 6223 of the Code,
receipt of written notice of the final Company administrative adjustment
relating to the Company pursuant to Section 6223 of the Code, and receipt of any
request from the Internal Revenue Service for waiver of any applicable statute
of limitations with respect to the filing of any tax return by the Company; and
(v) the Tax Matters Member shall promptly notify the other Members if the Tax
Matters Member does not intend to file for judicial review with respect to the
Company.

          6.5 TAX ELECTIONS AND RETURNS. The Tax Matters Member GGPLP shall,
from time to time, make such tax elections on behalf of the Company as it deems
necessary or desirable in its discretion to carry out the business of the
Company or the purposes of this Agreement, including elections under Section 754
of the Code. The Tax Matters Member shall cause the Company accountants to
prepare and file federal, state and local tax returns for the Company on a
timely basis, and shall furnish copies thereof to the Members with required
partnership schedules showing allocations of book and tax items.

          6.6 INTERIM ACCOUNTING. The Tax Matters Member may cause the books of
account of the Company to be closed on an interim basis when the Board deems
such closing necessary or appropriate under the circumstances, including a
transfer of Units causing a termination of the Company for tax purposes.

33

ARTICLE VII
                         GOVERNANCE; BOARD OF DIRECTORS

          7.1 ACTION BY MEMBERS TO EFFECTUATE THIS AGREEMENT. Each Member agrees
to take all actions necessary to carry out and effectuate the provisions of this
Agreement, including to vote in a manner consistent with this Agreement and to
cause any Board Member elected by it to take such actions as are required to be
taken by this Agreement.

          7.2 BOARD.

                    (a) Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, the
          Board of Directors of the Company shall consist of six members, and
          the holders of Class A Units (by majority vote) shall have the right
          from time to time at their election to designate three members to the
          Board (the "Class A Board Members"), and the holders of Class B Units
          (by majority vote) shall have the right from time to time at their
          election to designate three members to the Board (the "Class B Board
          Members" and, together with the Class A Board Members, the "Board
          Members").

                  (b) Members of the Board (other than Independent Board
         Members) shall not receive compensation for serving as members as the
         Board. Independent Board Members may be paid reasonable and customary
         compensation as determined by the Board. If he or she elects, a Board
         member shall be entitled to the reasonable reimbursement of his or her
         actual out-of-pocket expenses in attending Board meetings.

                    (c) To carry out the provisions of this Section 7.2, GGPLP,
          as the sole Class A Member, and NYSCRF, as the sole Class B Member,
          hereby elect the following designated persons as the initial Class A
          Board Members and the initial Class B Board Members, respectively:

          Class A Board Members   Matthew Bucksbaum
                                  John Bucksbaum
                                  Robert A. Michaels

          Class B Board Members   Marjorie Tsang
                                  Yvonne D. Nelson
                                  Frank L. Sullivan, Jr.

                    (d) Subject to Section 7.2(e), either the Class A Member or
          Class B Member may, by delivering written notice to the other, remove
          any Board Member designated by it and fill any vacancy in one or more
          of its Board Member positions. No Board Member otherwise may be
          removed and no vacancy otherwise may be filled.

34

(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
          herein, every Class A Board Member shall also be an executive officer
          of GG Properties holding the office of executive vice president or
          higher, including Chairman of the Board.

                    (f) Except as expressly provided herein, no Member shall
          have any right to approve any action of or have any voice in the
          management of the Company, and no Member shall have authority to bind
          or otherwise act for the Company.

                    (g) Subject to the provisions of Section 7.3(a), the Members
          agree that so long as GGPLP holds more than the Class A Minimum
          Investment, the Class A Board Members shall have the right and
          authority to designate and remove all of the officers and directors or
          trustees of the Subsidiaries, subject to the approval of the Class B
          Board Members, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.

          7.3 OFFICERS; MANAGEMENT; RIGHTS IN THE EVENT OF CAUSE.

                    (a) Subject to the provisions of Sections 7.2(g) and 7.3(b),
          the officers of the Company and the Subsidiaries (to the extent the
          Subsidiaries have officers) shall consist of the Persons designated by
          the Board in the manner provided herein for Board actions, and such
          Persons shall serve in the offices designated by the Board until their
          respective successors are duly appointed by the Board, they resign,
          die or are removed (which the Board may do with or without cause in
          the manner provided herein for Board actions). Officers of the Company
          may not be removed except as expressly provided herein.

                    (b) So long as GGPLP holds more than the Class A Minimum
          Investment and provided both the Class A Member and Class B Member are
          entitled to designate Board Members in accordance with the provisions
          of this Agreement, the Members agree to cause the Class A Board
          Members and Class B Board Members to (i) designate the Chief Executive
          Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer,
          Treasurer and Secretary of GG Properties to serve ex officio as the
          Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief
          Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary of the Company and of the
          Subsidiaries (to the extent that the Subsidiaries have officers) (the
          "General Growth Officers") (and to remove any such Person who no
          longer is serving in such capacity as an officer of General Growth)
          and (ii) designate certain persons identified by any of the General
          Growth Officers as vice presidents, assistant treasurers or assistant
          secretaries of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries (and remove any
          such Person that is designated to be removed by the General Growth
          Officers). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein
          and unless and to the extent the Board otherwise

35

determines, from and after the date on which GGPLP no longer holds the
          Class A Minimum Investment, the Members agree that the General Growth
          Officers shall no longer be the officers of the Company, they shall no
          longer manage the Company or the Properties, they shall no longer be
          entitled to the fees set forth in the Schedules attached hereto
          (except as expressly provided therein) and the officers shall be
          selected by the Board as reconstituted pursuant to Section 8.4(c).

                    (c) Subject to Section 7.7 hereof, the officers of the
          Company and the Subsidiaries shall be authorized to manage the
          business and affairs of the Company and the Subsidiaries in accordance
          with all Key Documents, legal requirements and the terms hereof; and,
          subject to the foregoing, the officers of the Company and the
          Subsidiaries shall have the right to take all actions on behalf of the
          Company and the Subsidiaries. The General Growth Officers, so long as
          they shall serve as the management of the Company, shall manage the
          day to day operations of the Company and each of the Properties in a
          manner substantially consistent with the management of GGPLP and GG
          Properties. Without in any way limiting the generality of the
          foregoing, the officers of the Company and the Subsidiaries shall
          manage the day to day operations of the Properties in accordance with
          the policies and other matters set forth on Schedule II. All costs and
          expenses incurred in connection with the management of the Company and
          the Subsidiaries and the ownership, operation, management and
          development of the Properties shall be paid by the Company and the
          Subsidiaries, or if paid by GGPLP or any of its Affiliates, the
          Company and the Subsidiaries shall reimburse GGPLP or its Affiliates
          therefor to the extent such costs and expenses were incurred by reason
          of acts which (i) are for or on behalf of the Company, (ii) within the
          scope of the authority granted hereunder and (iii) did not constitute
          gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of GGPLP or its
          Affiliates; provided, however, that for so long as the General Growth
          Officers are the officers of the Company, the costs and expenses of
          the Company and the Subsidiaries listed on Schedule III shall be paid
          by GGPLP or its Affiliates and shall not be reimbursed to GGPLP or its
          Affiliates or charged to the Company or the Subsidiaries or paid from
          Company Assets. So long as the General Growth Officers are the
          officers of the Company, the Company and/or the Subsidiaries shall pay
          to GGPLP and its Affiliates (as provided below) the fees and
          reimbursable amounts with respect to the Company Assets in the amounts
          and in the manner set forth on Schedule IV. Unless otherwise approved
          by the Board, and except as may otherwise be provided in this
          Agreement, no other fee or compensation shall be paid by the Company
          and/or the Subsidiaries to GGPLP, GG Properties or any of their
          Affiliates in connection with the management of the Company and/or the
          Subsidiaries and the Company Assets. So long as

36

the General Growth Officers are the officers of the Company, the
          Company and its Subsidiaries shall be authorized to enter into one or
          more agreements with GGPLP and any of its Affiliates to delegate all
          or any portion of the managerial responsibilities of the General
          Growth Officers to such entities; provided that, (i) the General
          Growth Officers shall not be relieved of their obligation to manage
          the Company or any other obligation or responsibility under this
          Agreement by reason of such delegation, (ii) the Company shall not
          incur any additional cost by reason of such delegation and (iii) GGPLP
          and any such Affiliate shall be obligated to carry out their delegated
          managerial responsibilities in accordance with the policies set forth
          on Schedule II to the extent applicable and (iv) and Board shall not
          lose any rights provided hereunder. Any such agreement entered into by
          the Company and/or its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and GGPLP and/or
          any of its Affiliates, on the other hand, may provide that all or any
          portion of the fees and reimbursable amounts set forth on Schedule IV
          shall be paid to an Affiliate of GGPLP, rather than to GGPLP, and may
          contain customary indemnities from the Company and its Subsidiaries to
          GGPLP and such Affiliate against claims, losses, liabilities, costs
          and expenses arising out of the operation or management of Company
          Assets to the extent such management was within the scope of the
          authority expressly granted to GGPLP or such Affiliate hereunder or
          thereunder, other than claims, losses, liabilities, costs and expenses
          caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of GGPLP or such
          Affiliate and shall also contain customary indemnities by GGPLP or
          such Affiliate to the Company with respect to GGPLP's or such
          Affiliate's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Any such agreement
          shall be terminable by the Class B Board Members, in their sole
          discretion, immediately following the General Growth Officers ceasing
          to serve as the Company's management, GGPLP ceasing to own the Class A
          Minimum Investment or the Development Manager or the Property Manager
          ceasing by operation of law or otherwise to be GGPLP, GG Properties or
          an Affiliate of GGPLP or GG Properties (and otherwise are only
          terminable as expressly provided herein). Unless otherwise provided
          herein or approved by the Board, the Company shall not have any
          employees. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
          the Company shall (and shall cause the Subsidiaries to) continue to
          engage the existing property manager(s) for Carolina Place and
          Montclair Plaza through December 31, 1999 pursuant to the existing
          management agreement(s) for such Properties, and the Company and the
          Subsidiaries shall not commence paying GGPLP and/or its Affiliates the
          property management fees for Montclair Plaza and Carolina Place (which
          fees are set forth in Section 1 of Schedule IV) until January 1, 2000.

37

(d) The Class B Members shall have the right, in their sole
          discretion, to exercise the rights under Article IX or XI hereof in
          the event that Cause exists.

                    (e) For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean, (i)
          the failure of the General Growth Officers to submit an Annual
          Business Plan to the Board as provided in Section 7.7(c) hereof, (ii)
          the failure of the General Growth Officers to obtain prior Board
          approval (as part of an approved Annual Business Plan or otherwise)
          for any of the matters enumerated in Section 7.7(d) hereof (unless
          Board approval is not required pursuant to the provisions of this
          Agreement), (iii) the General Growth Officers taking or causing the
          Company to take any action materially in contravention of an approved
          Annual Business Plan (other than actions otherwise permitted
          hereunder), (iv) a willful and material violation by GGPLP or GG
          Properties of the provisions of Section 7.10 hereof or (v) the
          engaging by any General Growth Officers, GGPLP, GG Properties, or the
          Property Manager, if any, in willful misconduct, including fraud,
          embezzlement or theft which is demonstrably and materially injurious
          to the Company; provided that Cause shall not be deemed to exist until
          the procedures set forth in Section 7.3(f) below have been complied
          with.

                    (f) If the Class B Member or Class B Board Members believe
          that an event giving rise to Cause has occurred, the Class B Members
          or Class B Board Members shall deliver a notice (the "Cause Notice")
          to the General Growth Officers setting forth with particularity the
          event giving rise to Cause and the applicable clause of Section
          7.3(e). If the event giving rise to Cause is one enumerated in Section
          7.3(e) (i), (ii) or (iii), the General Growth Officers shall have
          fifteen (15) days from the date of the delivery of such notice to cure
          the action or failure to act (or if such action or failure to act, or
          consequence of such action or failure to act, is curable but is of
          such a nature that it cannot be cured within such fifteen (15) day
          period, the General Growth Officers shall commence such cure and
          proceed diligently to Complete the curing thereof as promptly as
          practicable). The General Growth Officers shall promptly, and, in any
          event, by the end of the fifteen (15) day cure period, notify (the
          "Cure Notice") the Class B Member or any Class B Board Member that
          either (i) the event giving rise to Cause has been cured and
          specifying the actions taken in respect thereof or (ii) the event
          giving rise to Cause is curable but cannot be cured within fifteen
          (15) days and specifying the actions that have been taken and will be
          taken in respect thereof, in which case upon such cure the General
          Growth Officers will deliver a second notice stating that the event
          giving rise to Cause has been cured and specifying the actions that
          have been taken in respect thereof (the "Second Cure Notice"). Unless
          the Class B Member or such Class B Board Member reasonably objects in

38

writing to the Cure Notice or the Second Cure Notice, as the case may
          be, within ten (10) days of delivery thereof, the event giving rise to
          Cause (to the extent such Cure Notice or Second Cure Notice states
          that the events giving rise to Cause have been cured) shall be deemed
          to be cured. If GGPLP wishes to contest the existence of Cause, the
          General Growth Officers shall within ten (10) days of receipt of the
          Cause Notice, or, if the Class B Member or such Class B Board Member
          has reasonably objected to the Cure Notice or the Second Cure Notice,
          as the case may be, the Class B Member or any Class B Board Member
          shall within ten (10) days of receipt of the Cure Notice or the Second
          Cure Notice, as the case may be, submit the existence of Cause to
          arbitration pursuant to Section 11.13 hereof. If the question of Cause
          or the cure thereof has been submitted to arbitration, Cause shall not
          be deemed to have occurred unless and until the arbitrators have
          reached a final decision that Cause exists or has not been cured. If
          the General Growth Officers neither submit the question of Cause to
          arbitration nor deliver a Cure Notice within the fifteen (15) day
          period following the date of the delivery of the Cause Notice, then
          Cause shall be deemed to exist on the day immediately following such
          fifteen (15) day period. During any arbitration proceeding, the
          General Growth Officers shall use all diligent and good faith efforts
          to act or cease from acting in the manner that is the subject of the
          dispute. Arbitration costs shall be charged to the losing party.

                    (g) As to the allocation among the officers of the rights,
          powers, authority and duties of the officers as a group hereunder,
          each officer shall have the rights, powers, authority and duties as
          generally pertains to his or her office or as may be specified by the
          Chief Executive Officer or the President of the Company unless
          otherwise provided herein. The Secretary shall have the duty to record
          the proceedings of the meetings of the Board and any committees in a
          book to be kept for that purpose. The Board may require any officer,
          agent or employee to give security for the faithful performance of his
          or her duties.

          7.4 CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. So long as the General Growth Officers are
the officers of the Company, the Members agree to cause the Class A Board
Members and Class B Board Members to designate as the Chairman of the Board and
the Subsidiaries the Board Member elected by GGPLP who holds the most senior
position at GG Properties (the "General Growth Chairman").

          7.5 COMMITTEES. The Board shall have the power to create committees,
including an executive committee and an audit committee, to designate, remove
and replace committee members and to delegate to such committees such powers and
authority as the Board may determine and as may then be permitted by the
Company's Certificate of Formation and the Act; provided, however, that so

39

long as the Class A Member and Class B Member are entitled to designate Board
Members in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, (i) any committee
established by the Board shall have at least one member designated by the Class
A Board Members and at least one member designated by the Class B Board Members
unless the Board determines otherwise and (ii) subject to Section 7.2(e), the
Class A Board Members shall be exclusively entitled to designate, remove and
replace the Class A committee members and the Class B Board Members shall be
exclusively entitled to designate, remove and replace the Class B committee
members. Except as provided herein and unless the Board otherwise provides, each
committee may adopt, amend or repeal rules for the conduct of its business that
are consistent with the terms hereof. Each committee shall otherwise conduct its
business in the same manner as the Board conducts its business pursuant to this
Agreement.

          7.6. CERTIFICATE OF FORMATION; BY-LAWS. Each Member shall take all
other actions necessary and appropriate to ensure that the Company's Certificate
of Formation and By-Laws do not at any time conflict with the provisions of this
Agreement or any Key Document and shall not consent to or approve of any
amendment to the Certificate of Formation or By-Laws which would be inconsistent
with this Agreement or any Key Document.

          7.7 ACTIONS BY BOARD.

                    (a) Actions by Directors. (a) Except as otherwise provided
          herein, at such times as both Class A Units and Class B Units shall be
          outstanding, at all meetings of the Board a quorum shall exist for the
          transaction of business if at least two (2) Class A Board Members and
          two (2) Class B Board Members are present. At such times as both Class
          A Units and Class B Units shall be outstanding, at all meetings of any
          committee of the Board a quorum shall exist for the transaction of
          business if at least one member designated by the Class A Board
          Members and one member designated by the Class B Board Members are
          present, unless the Board shall determine otherwise. At all other
          times (i.e., when the Board is constituted pursuant to Section
          8.4(c)), a quorum shall exist for the transaction of business if at
          least a majority of Board or committee members are present. Actions of
          the Board or any committee thereof may be taken at meetings or by
          written consent, and any written consent shall be filed with the
          minutes of proceedings of the Board or the appropriate committee
          thereof. Attendance at any meeting may be by conference telephone or
          similar communications equipment by means of which all persons
          participating in the meeting can hear each another. In case at any
          meeting of the Board or a committee thereof a quorum shall not be
          present, the members of the Board or such committee present may
          adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present.

40

(b) When action is to be taken by vote of the Board or any
          committee thereof and except as otherwise provided herein, each member
          of the Board or such committee shall be accorded one vote. Except as
          otherwise provided herein (including Section 7.2 and Section 8.4(c)
          hereof), each and every corporate action taken by vote of the Board or
          any committee thereof shall be authorized only by the affirmative vote
          of the majority of the Board or committee members, as the case may be,
          present at a duly constituted meeting at which a quorum is present and
          acting throughout; provided that, at such times as both Class A Units
          and Class B Units shall be /outstanding and entitled to elect Board
          Members pursuant to this Agreement, at least one Class A Board Member
          and one Class B Board Member (in the case of Board meetings), or one
          Class A committee member and one Class B committee member (in the case
          of committee meetings), has voted in favor of such action.

                    (c) On or before December 15 of each year, commencing
          December 15, 2000, for each Property that is operating, is then under
          construction or development or is in the planning stage, the General
          Growth Officers will cause to be prepared and submitted to the Board
          for approval a proposed annual business plan (including an annual
          capital budget and operating budget and leasing guidelines to permit
          the execution of leases on behalf of the Company and its Subsidiaries
          without specific Board approval, which shall include figures for
          minimum square foot base rental, maximum tenant improvement
          allowances, maximum obligations on lease take-overs and any other
          leasing criteria proposed by the General Growth Officers) for the
          following fiscal year, such plan to be substantially in the form of
          the "Annual Business Plans" for 1999 delivered pursuant to the
          Stockholders Agreement (unless otherwise provided herein) or otherwise
          approved by the Board (each, an "Annual Business Plan") (and the
          General Growth Officers will cause to be prepared and submitted to the
          Board for approval a proposed Annual Business Plan for 2000 within 60
          days following the date hereof). The proposed Annual Business Plan
          also shall itemize each transaction or matter requiring approval of
          the Board pursuant to Section 7.7(d) below. The General Growth
          Officers also shall cause the Board to be provided with quarterly
          updates to the Annual Business Plans. A meeting of the Board to
          consider an Annual Business Plan for approval shall, unless the Board
          otherwise determines, be held no sooner than 45 days following
          submission of the proposed Annual Business Plan to the Board and no
          later than 75 days following submission thereof. Prior to such
          meeting, the General Growth Officers shall make available to the Class
          B Board Members and their representatives and advisors such backup
          information with respect to the Annual Business Plan as the Class B
          Board Members shall reasonably request and shall be reasonably

41

available to consult with the Class B Board Members regarding the
          details of the Annual Business Plan. If the Board shall consider for
          adoption a proposed Annual Business Plan for any year and shall fail
          to adopt it in its entirety because of disagreement as to one or more
          items although the Board shall agree on other items, then the Board
          shall adopt as the Annual Business Plan for such year such proposed
          Annual Business Plan exclusive of the items as to which there is
          disagreement, provided, however, that if there is disagreement over
          any item of expenditure in such Annual Business Plan that is
          nondiscretionary, then the Board shall adopt such Annual Business Plan
          as it relates to such nondiscretionary item of expenditure, and
          provided further, however, that if there is disagreement over any
          discretionary item of operating expenditure in such Annual Business
          Plan, then the Board shall adopt such Annual Business Plan including
          such discretionary item of operating expenditure in an amount equal to
          the amount reasonably proposed for such operating expenditure item by
          the General Growth Officers (and, in the event that the Annual
          Business Plan otherwise has not been approved for any year, the
          General Growth Officers may cause the Company to make discretionary
          operating expenditures in such amounts as they reasonably deem
          appropriate and to expend funds for nondiscretionary items until such
          Annual Business Plan is approved). Although the General Growth
          Officers shall use reasonable efforts to include all nondiscretionary
          items in the Annual Business Plan, expenditures for nondiscretionary
          items shall not be limited by amounts set forth in an approved Annual
          Business Plan. "Nondiscretionary items" shall mean items that must be
          paid by the Company to avoid a material adverse effect on the
          business, operations or value of the assets of the Company and/or its
          Subsidiaries. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
          Members acknowledge and agree that nondiscretionary items include the
          minimum amount of funds needed to (i) pay and perform when due all of
          the obligations of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries under any
          notes, mortgages and other instruments to which the Company or any
          Subsidiary is or shall be a party or by which the Company and/or its
          Subsidiaries or its or their assets are bound in connection with any
          financing, (ii) pay when due real estate and other taxes affecting the
          Company and/or its Subsidiaries and insurance premiums for the Company
          and/or Subsidiary assets and the Company and/or its Subsidiaries, and
          (iii) comply with all laws now or hereafter in force which shall be
          applicable to all or any part of the assets of the Company and/or its
          Subsidiaries and the operation and management thereof (including the
          making of capital expenditures required for such compliance) if the
          failure to comply would (A) expose the Company, any Subsidiary, any
          Member or any employee, agent, officer, director, trustee or
          contractor of the Company and/or any Subsidiary, any Member, GG
          Properties, the Development Manager or the Property Manager

42

to the risk of criminal prosecution, (B) entitle any enforcing entity
          to take any action which could materially and adversely affect the
          business, operation or value of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries or
          (C) invalidate or impair any of the insurance maintained by the
          Company and/or its Subsidiaries.

                    (d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
          herein, the following matters will require approval of the Board
          (either as part of an approved Annual Business Plan or by separate
          Board action) unless any such matters have been specifically approved
          pursuant to this Agreement (including Articles VIII, IX, X or XI) or
          otherwise:

                              (i) The purchase or other acquisition by the
                    Company and/or its Subsidiaries of any material asset or
                    property or any direct or indirect interest therein, but
                    excluding purchase options where the cost of the option does
                    not exceed $500,000;

                              (ii) the sale, transfer, assignment, exchange or
                    other disposition by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries
                    of any Property or any direct or indirect interests therein
                    or any part thereof;

                              (iii) the development, redevelopment or expansion
                    by the Company or any Subsidiary of the Properties;

                              (iv) the incurrence by the Company or any
                    Subsidiary of any indebtedness for borrowed money, whether
                    secured or unsecured, or the refinancing of any indebtedness
                    for borrowed money, whether secured or unsecured (including
                    any capital lease obligation) in excess of $500,000 in the
                    aggregate in any fiscal year (excluding indebtedness for
                    borrowed money that has been approved by the Board);

                              (v) the pledge, encumbrance or subjecting to liens
                    or mortgages by the Company or any Subsidiary of any
                    Property in connection with a financing or refinancing;

                              (vi) with respect to each "Major Expense Category"
                    (as so denominated in the Annual Business Plan), the
                    expenditure by the Company and/or any Subsidiary of amounts
                    in excess of those set forth in an approved Annual Business
                    Plan, unless (A) the aggregate of all such amounts
                    (excluding nondiscretionary items and emergency expenditures
                    referred to below in excess of the amount budgeted therefor)
                    do not exceed 105% of the total expenditures set forth in
                    such Annual Business Plan for such Major Expense Category
                    (but the amount of the fees

43

identified on Schedule IV may not be increased) or (B) such
                    amounts are nondiscretionary items (as defined in Section
                    7.7(c)) or otherwise are required, in the reasonable
                    judgment of the Company's management, to be expended because
                    of an emergency involving an immediate threat to the health,
                    safety or condition of persons or property and the Company's
                    management is hereby authorized to spend such amounts
                    without further Board action (but only such amounts as are
                    required to alleviate such immediate threat);

                              (vii) the merger, consolidation, reorganization or
                    other similar transaction involving the Company or any
                    Subsidiary with or into another Person, in any such case,
                    whether in a single transaction or a series of related
                    transactions;

                              (viii) except as provided in 7.7(d)(xiv), any
                    Company or Subsidiary transaction or agreement (or amendment
                    or modification to any transaction or agreement) with,
                    involving or benefitting GGPLP, GG Properties, or an
                    Affiliate of GGPLP or GG Properties;

                              (ix) other than a dissolution pursuant to Article
                    XI, the taking of any action, including the filing of a
                    petition, with respect to (x) an assignment for the benefit
                    of creditors of the Company or any Subsidiary, (y) the
                    bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, dissolution or any
                    similar occurrence of the Company or any Subsidiary or (z) a
                    liquidation or any other similar occurrence, that might
                    result in the termination of the Company or any Subsidiary;

                              (x) the admission of additional Members or the
                    issuance, grant or entry into an agreement or arrangement
                    providing for options, warrants or other rights, interests
                    or securities convertible into or exchangeable for any
                    equity interests in the Company or any Subsidiary;

                              (xi) except as otherwise expressly provided herein
                    (including the provisions of Article V), the determination
                    of the amount and timing of distributions of Net Disposition
                    Proceeds and Operating Cash Flow;

                              (xii) the determination of Reserve Amounts for any
                    fiscal year;

                              (xiii) the establishment of the Company's policy
                    with respect to the appropriate levels of debt
                    capitalization of the Company;

44

(xiv) the consent to any amendments or supplements
                    to, or the making of elections or grant of waivers of
                    conditions or the enforcement of rights under, any
                    Contribution Agreement, provided, however, that in
                    connection with any Board resolutions with respect to such
                    matters and so long as the Class A Member and Class B Member
                    are entitled to designate Board Members in accordance with
                    the provisions of this Agreement, (A) the Class B Board
                    Members shall have the exclusive right to vote (and the
                    Class A Board Members shall not have the right to vote and
                    the vote of the Class A Board Members shall not be required)
                    for the approval of any such action that relates to the
                    obligations of GGPLP and its Affiliates under any
                    Contribution Agreement and (B) the Class A Board Members
                    shall have the exclusive right to vote (and the Class B
                    Board Members shall not have the right to vote and the vote
                    of the Class Board Members shall not be required) for the
                    approval of any such action that relates to the obligations
                    of NYSCRF or its Affiliates under any Contribution
                    Agreement;

                              (xv) the engagement, retention or termination by
                    the Company of any property or development manager for the
                    Properties other than GGPLP, GG Properties, or any of their
                    Affiliates;

                              (xvi) the engagement or retention by the Company
                    of any financial advisor or investment banking firm for any
                    major capital transaction or any legal counsel for any
                    material litigation;

                              (xvii) the amendment of any of the policies set
                    forth in Schedule II or any of the fees or other matters set
                    forth in Schedule IV, in each case as they relate to the
                    Company or any Subsidiary;

                              (xviii) the adoption, modification or deviation
                    from (A) an approved Annual Business Plan (except as
                    permitted hereunder, including as specified in Section
                    7.7(d)(vi)) and (B) any development budget, including the
                    Stonebriar Development Plan.

                              (xix) any action not in furtherance of the
                    Company's purpose set forth in Section 2.4.

                    (e) The Members hereby approve, and the Company shall be
          authorized to undertake, (i) the development and leasing of the
          Stonebriar Development Project and the expenditure of funds in
          connection therewith pursuant to the development plan and budget
          attached hereto as Exhibit C (such development plan and budget, as the
          same may be modified in accordance with the terms of this Agreement,
          the "Stonebriar Development Plan")

45

and (ii) the operation of the Company Assets (other than the
          Stonebriar Development Project) and the expenditure of funds and/or
          incurrence of indebtedness in connection therewith pursuant to the
          existing 1999 business plans for the Company Assets for remainder of
          1999 (and each such plan shall be deemed to be an Annual Business Plan
          hereunder).

          7.8 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD.

                    (a) The Board shall meet not less frequently than three
          times per year, at such times as the Board may determine, and, if so
          determined, no notice need be given. Any failure to so meet shall not
          give rise to any presumption or inference that the Members shall have
          any liability for the obligations of the Company.

                    (b) In addition, the Board shall meet upon the request of
          any Board Member conveyed in writing to each other Board Member, at a
          time no fewer than two (2) and no more than twenty-one (21) business
          days after such notice is given, and at the Company's principal
          offices or such other place as is determined by the Board.

                    (c) Meetings of the Board shall be presided over by the
          Chairman of the Board or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board
          by the Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, or in the absence of the
          Vice Chairman of the Board by the President, or in their absence by a
          chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary, or in the absence of
          the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, shall act as secretary of the
          meeting, but in the absence of the Secretary and any Assistant
          Secretary the chairman of the Board shall choose a person to act as
          Secretary.

                    (d) Whenever notice is required to be given to the Board
          members under any provision of this Agreement, a written waiver
          thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or
          after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice.
          Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of
          notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for
          the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to
          the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully
          called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the
          purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board or members of
          a committee of the Board need be specified in any written waiver of
          notice.

          7.9 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.

                    (a) To the extent consistent with the other provisions of
          this Agreement, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall

46

endeavor to conduct their affairs in a manner that will not cause the
          Company or any Subsidiary to be deemed to be, and will not make any
          investment which could cause it to become, an "investment company" for
          purposes of the Investment Company Act.

                    (b) The Company and its Subsidiaries shall operate in a
          manner that will enable GG Properties and Natick Trust to (i) satisfy
          the requirements for qualifying as a real estate investment trust
          under the Code and (ii) avoid any federal income or excise tax
          liability. The foregoing is not intended to, and shall not, alter the
          relative distributions payable to the Members as set forth in Article
          V although it may affect the overall amount of distributions made in
          any year.

                    (c) The Company shall at all times, commencing with the date
          of its formation, qualify, and each Member shall cause the Company to
          operate in a manner so that it will at all times qualify as an
          "operating company" under Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration
          Regulation Section 2510.3-101 (the "Plan Asset Regulations") issued by
          the Department of Labor under Title I of the Employee Retirement
          Income Security Act of 1974, as the same may be amended from time to
          time ("ERISA") as long as equity participation by Benefit Plan
          Investors (as defined in the Plan Asset Regulations) is "significant,"
          as defined therein.

                    (d) The Company and each of its Subsidiaries shall operate
          its business and structure its investments in a manner necessary to
          avoid the realization of any "unrelated business taxable income"
          within the meaning of Section 512 of the Code ("UBTI") to any Member,
          or the realization of income that would be UBTI were a Member subject
          to the provisions of Section 511 through 514 of the Code regardless of
          its actual status thereunder, unless the Board otherwise approves.
          Without limiting the generality of the foregoing and without Board
          approval, the Company and each Subsidiary shall not knowingly, and
          each Member shall not knowingly, take any action to cause the Company
          or any Subsidiary to (i) incur any indebtedness other than (A)
          indebtedness that is incurred to acquire or improve real property
          within the meaning of Section 514(c)(9)(A) of the Code and that is not
          described in Section 514(c)(9)(B)(ii) of the Code, or (B) other
          indebtedness that will not give rise to UBTI to any Member or will not
          give rise to income that would be UBTI if a Member were subject to the
          provisions of Sections 511 through 514 of the Code regardless of its
          actual status thereunder (provided that nothing contained in this
          Section 7.9(d)(i) shall prohibit the financing or refinancing of
          Properties, including the consummation of the CMBS Financing, and the
          distribution of all or a portion of the proceeds thereof), (ii)
          guarantee the obligations of others unless such guarantee does not
          cause the

47

obligation guaranteed to become a "recourse liability" within the
          meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.752-1(a)), or (iii) incur any
          indebtedness that would be included as a "partner non-recourse debt"
          as set forth in Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-2(b)(4) (provided
          that nothing contained in Section 7.9(d)(ii) or (iii) shall prohibit
          guarantees or indebtedness that is "partner non-recourse debt" (as
          defined above) merely because of guarantees by any of the Company, the
          Subsidiaries, GGP/Homart and/or the subsidiaries of GGP/Homart of
          obligations of any of the others or because any such person is
          otherwise liable for the obligations of any of the others). In
          furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation thereof and without
          Board approval, the Company shall not knowingly, after making due
          inquiry (i) enter into any lease with, or borrow any amounts for the
          acquisition or improvement of any property (or any portion thereof)
          from, any person described in Section 514(c)(9)(B)(iii) or (v) of the
          Code; or (ii) enter into any lease or other arrangement with respect
          to any Property or any portion thereof if such lease or arrangement
          would result in (A) the payment of rent or any other amount to the
          landlord which depends in whole or in part on the income or profits
          derived by any person (including a tenant or a subtenant) from any
          portion of such Property (other than an amount based upon a fixed
          percentage of the receipts or sales of the tenant and, if any, the
          subtenants), (B) an obligation of the landlord to furnish or render
          any service not customarily furnished or rendered in connection with
          the rental of space for occupancy, as determined under Section 512(b)
          of the Code and any applicable Treasury regulations or (C) any portion
          of the Company's income (or loss) otherwise being UBTI. In the event
          that NYSCRF determines, in its reasonable judgment, that (i) as the
          result of any change in applicable statute, regulation or
          administrative or judicial interpretation thereof (including private
          letter rulings, technical advice memoranda and other similar
          pronouncements), any lease would cause the Company to have UBTI or
          (ii) any other arrangement entered into with respect to a Property or
          any portion thereof would cause the Company to have UBTI, the parties
          hereto agree to use their reasonable efforts (without any obligation
          to pay any amount or incur any obligation) to reform such lease or
          other arrangement, or to take any other action necessary or
          appropriate, to prevent the Company from having any UBTI.

          7.10 OTHER ACTIVITIES OF MEMBERS.

                    (a) Neither GGPLP nor GG Properties nor any of their
          Affiliates shall, directly or indirectly, as an owner, managing or
          general partner, majority or controlling stockholder, consultant,
          joint venturer, manager or otherwise, acquire, develop, redevelop,
          improve, construct or manage any regional shopping mall project, that
          is, in any such case,

48

located within the trade area (as shown in red on the maps attached
          hereto as Exhibit E) of any of the mall shopping centers listed on
          Exhibit E hereto (the "Relevant Trade Area"); provided, however, that
          nothing herein shall prohibit or restrict GGPLP or GG Properties or
          any of their Affiliates from owning, operating, developing, improving,
          expanding or managing any of the mall shopping centers owned (in whole
          or in part), operated, being developed or managed, directly or
          indirectly, by any of them on the date hereof and listed on Schedule V
          hereto.

                    (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section
          7.10(a), neither GGPLP nor GG Properties shall be in breach of Section
          7.10(a) if, in connection with the acquisition of a portfolio of three
          or more regional shopping malls or management contracts therefor,
          GGPLP, GG Properties or any of their Affiliates acquires directly or
          indirectly, or becomes the property manager or development manager
          for, any regional shopping mall project that is located within the
          Relevant Trade Area (the "Competing Asset"); provided GGPLP, GG
          Properties or such Affiliate terminates any management position with
          respect to such Competing Asset as soon as possible but no later than
          within one year after acquiring the same.

                    (c) Subject to Section 7.10(a) and (b), each Member and its
          Affiliates may engage or invest in any other activity or venture or
          possess any direct or indirect interest therein independently or with
          others. None of the Members, the Company or any other Person employed
          by, related to or in any way affiliated with any Member or the Company
          shall have any duty or obligation to disclose or offer to the Company
          or any of the Members, or obtain for the benefit of the Company or any
          of the Members, any such other activity or venture or interest
          therein. None of the Company, the Members, the creditors of the
          Company or any other person having any interest in the Company shall
          have (i) any claim, right or cause of action against any of the
          Members or any other Person employed by, related to or in any way
          affiliated with, any of the Members by reason of any direct or
          indirect investment or other participation, whether active or passive,
          in any such activity or venture therein or (ii) any right to any such
          activity or venture or interest therein or the income or profits
          derived therefrom.

          7.11 RIGHT OF PUBLIC TO RELY ON AUTHORITY OF THE MEMBERS. Nothing
herein contained shall impose any obligations on any Person or firm doing
business with the Company to inquire as to whether or not a Member or a General
Growth Officer has exceeded its authority in executing any contract, lease,
mortgage, deed or other instrument on behalf of the Company, and any such third
person shall be fully protected in relying upon such authority.

49

7.12 STANDARD OF CARE. Subject to the other provisions hereof
(including Section 7.13), each of the Board Members and officers shall discharge
his or her duties in that capacity in good faith, with the care that a director
or officer, as the case may be, of a Delaware corporation would be required to
exercise and in a manner he or she believes to be in the best interests of the
Company.

          7.13 WAIVER AND INDEMNIFICATION.

                    (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
          this Agreement (including Section 7.12 and the Schedules attached
          hereto), neither the Members nor any Person acting on their behalf
          pursuant hereto (including the Board Members and General Growth
          Officers), shall be liable, responsible or accountable in damages or
          otherwise to the Company, any Subsidiary or to any Member for any acts
          or omissions performed or omitted to be performed by them (or any
          Person acting on their behalf, including the Board Members and the
          General Growth Officers) in connection with the management of the
          Company and/or the Subsidiaries and within the scope of the authority
          conferred upon them by this Agreement, the Board and/or the Act,
          provided that the Member's or such other Person's conduct or omission
          to act was taken in good faith and in the belief that such conduct or
          omission was in the best interests of the Company and/or the
          Subsidiaries and, provided further, that the Member or such other
          Person shall not be guilty of intentional misconduct or gross
          negligence. The Company shall, and hereby does, indemnify and hold
          harmless the Members and their Affiliates and any individual acting on
          their behalf (including the Board Members and the General Growth
          Officers) from any loss, damage, claims or liability, including
          reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, incurred by them (i) by
          reason of any act performed by them or any Person acting on their
          behalf (including the Board Members and the General Growth Officers)
          in connection with the management of the Company and/or its
          Subsidiaries and/or any predecessors or successors thereof or thereto
          and in accordance with the standards set forth above or (ii) in
          enforcing the provisions of this indemnity. For purposes of this 7.13,
          the term "General Growth Officers" shall include the officers,
          directors and trustees of the Subsidiaries.

                    (b) Any Person entitled to indemnification under this
          Agreement shall be entitled to receive, upon application therefor
          (such application to include (i) a written affirmation of such
          person's good faith belief that he or she met the standard of conduct
          necessary for entitlement to indemnification by the Company and (ii)
          his or her written agreement to immediately repay such amount if it
          should ultimately be determined that he or she has not met such
          standard), advances to cover the reasonable costs of defending any
          proceeding against such Person; provided, however, that

50

such advances shall be immediately repaid to the Company, without
          interest, if such Person is found by a court of competent jurisdiction
          upon entry of a final judgment not to be entitled to such
          indemnification.

                    (c) The indemnity obligations under this Section 7.13 shall
          be in addition to any liability which the Company otherwise may have
          to any Person entitled to receive indemnification under this
          Agreement, shall extend upon the same terms and conditions to the
          stockholders, officers, directors, partners, employees and controlling
          Persons of any such Person, and shall be binding upon and inure to the
          benefit of any successors, assigns, heirs, and personal
          representatives of the Company, any Member, and any such other Person.
          The foregoing provisions shall survive any termination of this
          Agreement or dissolution of the Company.

                    (d) The Company and the other Members shall be indemnified
          and held harmless by each Member from and against any and all claims,
          demands, liabilities, costs, damages, expenses (including reasonable
          attorneys' fees and disbursements) and causes of action of any nature
          whatsoever arising out of or incidental to the fraud, willful
          misconduct or gross negligence of such Member or any Affiliate of such
          Member.

                                  ARTICLE VIII
                           TRANSFERS OF COMPANY UNITS

          8.1 CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS. No Member shall, directly or indirectly,
Transfer any Units to any Person (any such Person in whose favor a Transfer of
Units is made, and all subsequent permitted transferees of any such Person being
referred to collectively as "Transferees" and individually as a "Transferee"),
unless approved by the Board or unless such Transfer is made pursuant to this
Article VIII or Article IX, X or XI hereof; provided, however, that nothing in
this Agreement shall restrict the Transfer of any ownership interest in any
Member unless such Member's assets consist substantially of its membership
interest in the Company, in which case the Transfer shall be deemed a Transfer
of Units. Each Member hereby agrees that it will not Transfer all or any portion
of its Units except as permitted by this Agreement, that the Company shall not
reflect on its books any Transfer of Units to any Person except in accordance
with this Agreement, and that any Transfer of Units not permitted by the
provisions of this Agreement shall be null and void ab initio.

          8.2 COMPLIANCE WITH SECURITIES LAWS. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained herein, no Member shall Transfer any Units, and the Company
shall not reflect on its books any Transfer of Units, unless (a) the Transfer is
pursuant to an

51

effective registration statement under the 33 Act and under any applicable state
securities or blue sky laws or (b) such Member shall have furnished the Company
with evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Company that no such registration
is required. A written opinion of counsel of recognized standing to the effect
set forth in clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall satisfy the requirements
of such clause.

          8.3 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP INTERESTS IN AFFILIATES. Each Member hereby
agrees that the transfer by such Member of any ownership interest or right of
exclusive control, if applicable, in any Person that is its Affiliate if (i)
such Person or an Affiliate of such Person that is controlled by such Person
owns Units and (ii) such Transfer would result in such Person no longer being an
Affiliate of such Member, shall be deemed a Transfer of Units owned by such
Person; provided, however that this Section 8.3 shall in no way limit the
transfer of ownership interests or the right of exclusive control in GG
Properties or GGPLP.

          8.4. TRANSFERS OF UNITS BY MEMBERS. (a)(i) Except as otherwise
provided in this Section 8.4(a), a holder of Class A Units shall not Transfer
all or any portion of its Class A Units without the prior approval of the Board.

                              (1) Any holder of Class A Units shall have the
                    right, without the approval of the Board (but subject to the
                    provisions of Sections 8.2, 8.5-8.8 and 8.10 hereof), to
                    Transfer all or any portion of its Class A Units or any
                    direct or indirect interest therein to one or more of its
                    Affiliates (and such Affiliate or Affiliates shall have all
                    rights of the Transferor hereunder and shall be admitted as
                    a Class A Member in lieu of such Class A Member with respect
                    to the Class A Units so transferred).

                              (2) Any holder of Class A Units shall have the
                    right, without the approval of the Board and from and after
                    (but in no event sooner than) the later of the third
                    anniversary of the date hereof and the Stonebriar Grand
                    Opening (but subject to the provisions of Sections 8.2,
                    8.5-8.8 and 8.10 hereof), to Transfer all or any portion of
                    its Units to one or more Accredited Investors or to another
                    Member; provided that any such Transferee shall not have
                    (and, subject to Section 8.4(a)(ii), the Transferor shall
                    retain) the right to designate Class A Board Members but
                    otherwise shall have all rights of the Transferor hereunder
                    and shall be admitted as a Class A Member in lieu of such
                    Class A Member with respect to the Class A Units so
                    transferred.

52

(ii) If at any time the aggregate Proportionate Share of
          GGPLP and its Affiliates is not at least twenty-six percent (26%) (the
          "Class A Minimum Investment"), then the Class A Members shall
          immediately thereafter cease to be entitled to elect Class A Board
          Members in accordance with the provisions of Article VII hereof, all
          of the Board Members (including Class A Board Members and Class B
          Board Members) shall be deemed to have resigned as of such time and
          the provisions of Section 8.4 (c) shall apply.

                    (b) (i) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 8.4(b),
          a holder of Class B Units shall not Transfer all or any portion of its
          Class B Units without the prior approval of the Board.

                              (1) Any holder of Class B Units shall have the
                    right, without the approval of the Board (but subject to the
                    provisions of Sections 8.2, 8.5-8.8 and 8.10 hereof), to
                    Transfer all or any portion of its Class B Units or any
                    direct or indirect interest therein to one or more of its
                    Affiliates (and such Affiliate or Affiliates shall have all
                    rights of the Transferor hereunder and shall be admitted as
                    a Class B Member in lieu of such Class B Member with respect
                    to the Class B Units so transferred).

                              (2) Any holder of Class B Units shall have the
                    right, without the approval of the Board and from and after
                    (but in no event sooner than) the Trigger Date (but subject
                    to the provisions of Sections 8.2, 8.5-8.8 and 8.10 hereof),
                    to Transfer all or any portion of its Class B Units to one
                    or more Accredited Investors or to another Member, provided
                    that, subject to Section 8.4(b)(ii) and (iii), any such
                    Transferee shall not have (and the Transferor shall retain)
                    the right to designate Class B Board Members but otherwise
                    shall have all rights of the Transferor hereunder and shall
                    be admitted as a Class B Member in lieu of such Class B
                    Member with respect to the Class B Units so transferred.

                    (ii) If at any time the aggregate Proportionate Share of
          NYSCRF and its Affiliates is not at least twenty-six percent (26%)
          (the "Class B Minimum Investment"), then the Class B Members
          thereafter shall immediately cease to be entitled to elect Class B
          Board Members in accordance with the provisions of Article VII hereof,
          all of the Board Members (including Class A Board Members and Class B
          Board Members) shall be deemed to

53

have resigned as of such time and the provisions of Section 8.4 (c)
          shall apply.

                    (iii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section
          8.4(b)(ii), the following shall apply:

                              (1) if all or a portion of the outstanding Class B
                    Units are Transferred pursuant to Section 8.4(b)(i)(2) to
                    one Person or one group of Affiliated Persons not formed for
                    the purpose of acquiring such Units (a "Permissible
                    Transferee"), and the Class B Units so Transferred represent
                    at least the Class B Minimum Investment, then such
                    Permissible Transferee shall continue to be entitled to
                    designate Class B Board Members in accordance with the
                    provisions of Article VII and the provisions of Section 7.7
                    hereof as to approval of Board actions by at least one Class
                    A Board Member and one Class B Board Member shall continue
                    to apply.

                              (2) If (A) all or a portion of the outstanding
                    Class B Units are Transferred pursuant to Section
                    8.4(b)(i)(2) to a Person not formed for the purpose of
                    acquiring such Class B Units (a "Serial Transferee") by a
                    transferor (a "Serial Transferor") such that the Serial
                    Transferor no longer has the right to designate Class B
                    Board Members pursuant to Section 8.4(b)(ii) and (2) the
                    Serial Transferee by virtue of such transfer, and any
                    previous Transfers of Class B Units by the Serial Transferor
                    to the Serial Transferee, then owns Class B Units at least
                    equal to the Class B Minimum Investment, then the Serial
                    Transferee thereafter shall have the right to designate
                    Class B Board Members in accordance with the provisions of
                    Article VII and the provisions of Section 7.7 hereof as to
                    approval of Board actions by at least one Class A Board
                    Member and one Class B Board Member shall apply.

                              (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
                    contained herein:

                                        (i) In the event either the Class A
                              Members or Class B Members (but not both) shall
                              cease to be entitled to elect Board Members in
                              accordance with Article VII hereof as provided in
                              Sections 8.4(a) and (b) above, then (A) the Board
                              shall consist of seven directors, at least a
                              majority of which shall be comprised of Persons
                              independent of the holder or holders of the
                              Electing Class (each, an

54

"Independent Board Member"); (B) the holder or
                              holders of the other class of Units (the "Electing
                              Class") shall be entitled to elect six of the
                              Board Members with such Board Members to be
                              elected by the holders of a majority of the Units
                              of the Electing Class, with each Unit of the
                              Electing Class entitled to one vote; (C) the
                              holders of Units of the non-Electing Class shall
                              be entitled to elect one Board Member, with such
                              Board Member to be elected by the holders of a
                              majority of the outstanding Units of the
                              non-Electing Class voting for this purpose as a
                              class, with each Unit of such non-Electing Class
                              entitled to one vote and (D) each and every
                              corporate action taken by vote of the Board or any
                              committee thereof in accordance with the terms
                              hereof shall be authorized only by the affirmative
                              vote of the majority of Board members or committee
                              members, as the case may be, present at a duly
                              constituted meeting at which quorum is present and
                              acting throughout. For purposes of this Agreement,
                              (1) a Person shall be deemed to be an Independent
                              Board Member if such Person is not an Affiliate or
                              employee of any holder of Class A Units or Class B
                              Units, as the case may be, or any of its
                              Affiliates (and, if the Class A Members are the
                              Electing Class, a Person shall be deemed to be an
                              Independent Board Member if such Person is not an
                              Affiliate, director or employee of GG Properties,
                              GGPLP or any of their successors or any of their
                              Affiliates, (2) so long as there is an Electing
                              Class, a Board Member elected by the holders of
                              Units of the non-Electing Class shall be deemed an
                              Independent Board Member and (3) if there is no
                              Electing Class, a Person shall be deemed to be an
                              Independent Board Member if such Person is not an
                              Affiliate, director or employee of any holder of
                              Units or any of its Affiliates.

                                        (ii) in the event both the Class A
                              Members and Class B Members shall cease to be
                              entitled to elect Board Members in accordance with
                              Article VII hereof as provided in Sections 8.4(a)
                              and (b) above, (A) the Board shall consist of
                              seven Board Members, at least a majority of which
                              shall be comprised of Independent Board Members,
                              (B) the Units shall be entitled to equal voting
                              rights and powers and shall be voted together as a
                              single class with respect to all matters on which
                              Members may be entitled to vote (including the
                              election of Board Members), with each Unit
                              entitled to one vote, and (C) the approval of a
                              majority of the Board Members

55

shall be required to approve an action of the
                              Board or Committee to the extent the same is
                              required hereunder.

                              (d) The Company shall be entitled to treat the
                    record owner of any Unit as the absolute owner thereof in
                    all respects, and shall incur no liability to any purported
                    Transferee of a Unit for distributions of money or other
                    property in good faith made to the record owner of such Unit
                    until all conditions of any Transfer are satisfied in
                    accordance herewith and an instrument effecting such
                    Transfer is received by the Members and is recorded on the
                    books of the Company.

          8.5  CERTAIN PROHIBITED TRANSFERS OF UNITS BY MEMBERS

                    (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to
          the contrary, no Transfer of all or any portion of any Member's Units
          shall be made if such Transfer would result in:

                                   (i) the Company being required to register,
                    [or seek an exemption from registration], as an investment
                    company under the Investment Company Act;

                                   (ii) GG Properties failing to qualify as a
                    real estate investment trust under the Code;

                                   (iii) an adverse effect for income tax
                    purposes on the Company or any of the continuing Members
                    (other than a constructive termination of the Company
                    pursuant to Code Section 708(b)(1)(B); provided that, at the
                    election of the non-Transferring Member, the Transfer shall
                    be structured to avoid a termination of the Company for
                    Federal income tax purposes, including a delayed purchase of
                    up to 1% membership interest of the Transferring Member);

                                   (iv) the Company or its Subsidiaries being
                    subject to materially increased regulatory burdens;

                                   (v) a material violation or default under any
                    Key Document of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; or

                                   (vi) a violation of any applicable statute,
                    law, ordinance, rule or regulation of any federal, state or
                    local governmental bodies, agencies or subdivisions having
                    jurisdiction over the Company and its assets.

                    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to
          the contrary, without the prior written approval

56

of the Class A Board Members, which approval may be given or withheld
          in the Class A Board Members sole discretion, no Transfer of all or
          any portion of any Member's Units shall be made to any Person whose
          principal business is the development or management of regional
          shopping malls other than any Person that is an insurance company, a
          pension fund, an investment company registered under the Investment
          Company Act, an investment advisor registered under the Investment
          Advisors Act of 1940, as amended, acting in its capacity as an
          investment advisor, or a fiduciary under ERISA acting in such
          capacity.

                    (c) Each Member may in its discretion require as a condition
          of any Transfer permitted under this Article VIII, the delivery of a
          written opinion of responsible counsel (who may be counsel for the
          Company), reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to such
          Member, to the effect that such Transfer would not result in any of
          the consequences set forth in the clauses of Section 8.5(a) and shall
          cover such other matters as such Member may reasonably require. In
          addition, a Person to whom a Transfer may be made pursuant to this
          Article VIII may also be required, in the discretion of each Member,
          and as a condition precedent to such Transfer, to make certain
          reasonable and customary representations, warranties and covenants.
          The Company shall cooperate with any Member making a Transfer by
          providing promptly such records and other factual information as may
          be reasonably requested with respect to any proposed Transfer provided
          that such Member and any prospective transferee that receives such
          records and information shall agree in writing to maintain the
          confidentiality thereof.

                    (d) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the
          contrary (including the other sections of this Article VIII), in no
          event shall any Units be Transferred to a Person who is the subject of
          any pending bankruptcy proceedings or to a Person who is a minor or
          who otherwise lacks legal capacity, and any attempt to effect a
          Transfer to such a Person shall be void and of no effect and shall not
          bind the Company.

                    (e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
          this Agreement (including the other sections of this Article VIII),
          any Transfer by a Member of its Units, whether direct or indirect,
          shall be made in full compliance with (i) all applicable statutes,
          laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of all federal, state and
          local governmental bodies, agencies and subdivisions having
          jurisdiction over the Company and its assets and (ii) all Key
          Documents, so that the operation of the Company can continue without
          interruption and without material violation of any applicable law or
          any of such instruments. In the event that any filing, application,
          approval or consent is required in connection with any such

57

Transfer, whether by any governmental entity or other third-party, the
          Member making such Transfer shall promptly make such filing or
          application or obtain such approval or consent, at its sole expense,
          and shall reimburse the other Member for any costs or expenses
          (including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by
          such non-Transferring Member in connection with any filing,
          application, approval or consent. In the event the Member making a
          Transfer shall fail to comply with its obligations hereunder, the
          other Member, upon 10 business days prior written notice to the
          Transferring Member, may do so at the sole cost and expense of the
          Transferring Member and adjourn the closing for such periods of time
          as are necessary, and all reasonable amounts so incurred by such other
          Member, including accounting, attorneys and other professional fees,
          shall be payable by the Transferring Member within 10 days after
          demand therefor.

                    (f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
          this Agreement (including the other sections of this Article VIII),
          each Member and each Transferee of all or any part of any Units (i)
          shall at all times maintain an office or agency for the service of
          process in the United States of America, which shall also be its
          address for delivery of notices hereunder or (ii) shall be a citizen
          or national of the United States.

                    (g) If any Person acquires all or any part of the Units of a
          Member in violation of this Article VIII or any other provision
          hereof, whether by operation of law, judicial proceeding or other
          manner not expressly permitted hereunder, such Person shall have no
          rights under this Agreement with respect to the Units so acquired.

          8.6 EXPENSES OF TRANSFER. The transferring Member agrees that it will
pay all reasonable expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees actually
incurred by the Company in connection with any Transfer of its Units.

          8.7 INDEMNIFICATION BY TRANSFEROR. In the event that the Company or
any non-transferring Member becomes involved in any capacity in any action,
proceeding, or investigation brought by or against any Person (including any
Member) in connection with any Transfer by a Member of its Units (other than a
Transfer pursuant to Article IX, X or XI hereof), the transferring Member will
periodically reimburse each of the Company and any non-transferring Member for
its reasonable legal and other expenses (including the reasonable cost of any
investigation and preparation) incurred in connection therewith. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, the transferring Member also will indemnify the Company
and any non-transferring Member against any losses, claims, damages, or
liabilities to which any of them may become subject directly as a

58

result of such Transfer. The reimbursement and indemnity obligations of the
transferring Member under this paragraph shall be in addition to any liability
which the transferring Member may otherwise have, shall extend upon the same
terms and conditions to the Members, stockholders, directors, officers,
employees, and controlling Persons of the Company and any non-transferring
Member, and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successors,
assigns, heirs, and personal representatives of the Company, any
non-transferring Member, and any such Persons. The foregoing provisions shall
survive any termination of this Agreement or dissolution of the Company.

          8.8 ACCEPTANCE OF PRIOR ACTS. Any Person who becomes a Member accepts,
ratifies and agrees to be bound by all actions duly taken pursuant to the terms
and provisions of this Agreement by the Company and the Members prior to the
date it became a Member and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
specifically ratifies and approves all agreements and other instruments as may
have been executed and delivered on behalf of the Company prior to said date and
which are in force and effect on said date.

          8.9 SUBSTITUTED MEMBERS. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein
(including Section 8.4), the Transferee of all or part of the Units of any
Member may be substituted as a Member with respect to the Units Transferred, and
shall thereupon be entitled to the rights of a Member with respect to such
Units, only upon satisfaction of the following conditions and the other
conditions specified in this Article VIII:

                                   (a) the Transferor grants the Transferee the
                    right to be admitted as a Member; and

                                   (b) each of the Members consents to such
                    substitution; provided, however, that the determination to
                    give or withhold consent to any substitution shall be and
                    remain wholly within the absolute discretion of the Members
                    whose consent may be required;

          8.10 CERTAIN CONDITIONS TO TRANSFER. As a condition precedent to any
Transfer under this Article VIII, each Transferee shall have executed and
delivered to the Company and each other Member, an instrument in form reasonably
satisfactory to each Member confirming that such Transferee agrees to be bound
by the terms of this Agreement (including this Article VIII) and shall have
submitted to the Company such evidence as a Member may reasonably request to
demonstrate that such Transfer is a permitted transfer under this Article VIII.

          8.11 DISSOLUTION OF COMPANY UPON TRANSFER. In the event of a transfer
of Units pursuant to this Article VIII, such transfer shall not cause a
dissolution of the Company under applicable law.

59

8.12 EFFECT OF INITIATION OF CERTAIN PROCEDURES. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained herein, once the Class A Members or the Class
B Members, as the case may be, shall have initiated the procedures set forth in
any of Articles VIII, IX, X or XI, the other Members may not initiate procedures
under any of Articles VIII, IX, X or XI until all of the rights under Articles
VIII, IX, X or XI then being exercised shall have been fully exercised,
exhausted or extinguished.

                                   ARTICLE IX
                                   PUT OPTION

          9.1 PUT OPTION. The Class B Members (acting by majority vote)
("Offerors") shall have the right, but not the obligation (the "Put Option"), to
require the Class A Members (the "Offerees") to, at the Class A Members'
election, purchase all (but not less than all) of the Units of the Offerors or
to market and sell the Company Units or the Properties (or indirect interests
therein) upon the terms and subject to the conditions contained herein. Any
action by the Offerors hereunder shall for all purposes hereunder bind and be
deemed to include all other Offerors hereunder, and any action by the Offerees
hereunder shall for all purposes hereunder bind and be deemed to include all
other Offerees hereunder.

          9.2 EXERCISE. The Put Option is exercisable only by delivery of
written notice (the "Put Notice") to the Offerees at any time from and after
(but in no event sooner than) the Trigger Date. The Put Notice shall specify
that the provisions of this Article IX are being invoked and set forth the
proposed Fair Market Value of each Property (the "Proposed Value") as reasonably
determined by the Offerors as though no Retained Debt exists. In addition, as a
condition precedent to the exercise of the Put Option and the closing of the
transactions contemplated thereby, each Offeror must be an Accredited Investor
and, as of the date of the Put Notice and the date of such closing, shall
represent, warrant and covenant to and for the benefit of Offerees that it is an
Accredited Investor, that it is acquiring any shares of GG Stock to be issued to
it pursuant to this Article IX for its own account, for investment and not with
a view to resale or distribution thereof (other than pursuant to the
registration statement described in Section 9.6) and that it will not Transfer
all or any portion of such shares in any manner which could violate or cause GG
Properties to violate applicable federal or state securities laws.

          9.3 DISSOLUTION VALUE OF THE COMPANY.

                    (a) The "Dissolution Value of the Company" shall be the
          Value of the Properties as determined pursuant to Section 9.3(b) plus
          the book value of the Other Assets as of the closing date, calculated
          in accordance with GAAP, less the amount of the liabilities of the
          Company as of the closing

60

date (excluding Retained Debt, which for this purpose is not a
          Liability and is to be paid in accordance with Section 13.1),
          calculated in accordance with GAAP to the extent the same shall remain
          liabilities of the Company after closing (the "Liabilities"). The
          determination of the Accountants as to the Other Assets and the
          Liabilities shall be binding absent manifest error.

                    (b) The value of a Property ("Value") shall be the Proposed
          Value specified in the Put Notice unless the Offerees provide written
          notice to the Offerors within 45 days following the delivery of the
          Put Notice designating a different Proposed Value. In the event that
          the Offerors and the Offerees after using commercially reasonable
          efforts to do so do not agree on the Fair Market Value of any Property
          (any such agreed upon Fair Market Value being the Value) within ten
          (10) days thereafter, the Offerees, on the one hand, and the Offerors,
          on the other hand, shall each designate an Appraiser. If the Offerees,
          on the one hand, or the Offerors, on the other hand, fail to select an
          Appraiser within 10 days following the end of such ten (10) day
          period, the party failing to designate an Appraiser shall forfeit its
          right to select an Appraiser, and the Appraiser designated by the
          other party shall alone make the determinations to be made by the
          Appraisers herein. Within ten (10) days thereafter, the Appraisers
          designated by the Offerors and the Offerees shall collectively select
          a third Appraiser. If no third Appraiser is selected within such time
          period or if neither the Offerors nor Offerees select an Appraiser in
          a timely manner, the Appraisal Institute shall select an Appraiser
          upon the request of either the Offerors or the Offerees. Within thirty
          (30) days of the selection of the last Appraiser to be selected in
          accordance with the terms hereof, the Appraisers or Appraiser, as the
          case may be, shall (by majority vote) select as the Value of each
          Property the Proposed Value which they believe is closest to the Fair
          Market Value of such Property (and the Appraisers may select no amount
          other than the Proposed Value designated by either the Offerors or the
          Offerees as the Value of such Property), and deliver written notice of
          the same to the Members.

                    (c) Except as provided in Section 9.4, the fees and expenses
          of the Appraisers shall be borne (i) by the Offerors if the difference
          between the Offerors' Proposed Values for all Properties and the
          Values of the Properties as finally determined pursuant to this
          Article IX is greater than the difference between the Offerees'
          Proposed Values for all Properties and the Values of the Properties as
          finally determined pursuant to this Article IX, (ii) by the Offerees
          if the first such difference is less than the second and (iii)
          otherwise equally by the Offerors and the Offerees.

61

9.4 RIGHT OF OFFERORS TO WITHDRAW PUT NOTICE. Upon receipt of written
notice of the determination of the Value of all Properties in accordance with
Section 9.3 hereof, the Offerors (by majority vote) shall have sixty (60) days
to withdraw, by written notice to the Offerees, the Put Notice in the event the
aggregate Value of all Properties is less than Offerors' aggregate Proposed
Values for all Properties. If within such sixty (60) day period, the Offerors
shall not have withdrawn the Put Notice, the Put Notice shall become effective.
The last day of such sixty (60) day period (or, where the Offerors have no right
to withdraw, the date upon which the Members have received written notice of the
Value of all Properties) is referred to herein as the "Put Notice Effective
Date". In the event of the withdrawal of the Put Notice, the Offerors shall pay
all costs and expenses of all Appraisers, the Offerors may not again deliver a
Put Notice until the last day of the eighteenth full calendar month following
the withdrawal of the Put Notice and the Offerors shall have no right to again
withdraw a Put Notice if a Put Notice is given thereafter.

          9.5 OPTION OF CLASS A MEMBERS. Upon the Put Notice Effective Date, the
Offerees shall have the right to either (a) purchase all of the Offerors' Units
for a purchase price and upon the other terms provided in Section 9.6 hereof or
(b) elect to market and sell the Company Units or the Properties (or indirect
interests therein) in accordance with Section 9.7 hereof. The Offerees may
exercise such right by written notice to the Offerors, delivered within sixty
(60) days after the Put Notice Effective Date, of its election (each such
notice, a "Put Response Notice"). If the Class A Members shall not deliver a Put
Response Notice within such sixty (60) day period, the Class A Members shall be
deemed to have elected the alternative set forth in clause (b) above.

          9.6 PURCHASE OF OFFERORS' UNITS. If the Offerees elect to purchase all
of the Offerors' Units pursuant to Section 9.5 above, the following shall apply:

                    (a) The purchase price for the Offerors' Units (the "Put
          Purchase Price") shall equal the product of the aggregate
          Proportionate Shares of the Offerors multiplied by the Dissolution
          Value of the Company.

                    (b) The Put Purchase Price shall be paid in cash; provided,
          however, that GG Properties shall have the right, but not the
          obligation (exercisable by delivering notice to Offerors within sixty
          (60) days following the Put Notice Effective Date), to acquire all or
          part of the Offerors' Units upon the terms provided herein. If GG
          Properties exercises such right, any references herein to Offerees
          shall be deemed to include GG Properties, the Put Purchase Price in
          respect of such Units shall be paid by delivery, in accordance with
          the terms hereof, of a number of shares of GG Stock equal to the
          quotient of such Put Purchase Price divided by the Ten Day

62

Average General Growth Share Price. Neither Offerors nor Offerees
          shall buy or sell or induce any Person to buy or sell (including
          without limitation short sell) any shares of Common Stock during the
          ten Trading Days following the date the Put Response Notice is given.

                    (c) The closing of the purchase and sale of the Offerors'
          Units shall take place at the offices of counsel to the Offerees and
          shall occur on the date that is not later than one hundred eighty
          (180) days following the date the Put Response Notice is given (but,
          in the case where GG Properties has elected to purchase the Offeror's
          Units, 10 business days following the date the Put Response Notice is
          given) unless the Members shall have agreed upon a different date in
          writing. At such closing, (i) the Offerors shall deliver to the
          Offerees reasonable and customary instruments of transfer sufficient
          to Transfer to the Offerees the Offerors' Units, free and clear of any
          Liens other than Liens created by, through or under the Offerees or
          Liens created in connection with Company financing (such instruments
          to contain surviving representations and warranties concerning due
          organization or formation, due authorization, execution and delivery
          and the absence of Liens (other than as permitted hereby) and no other
          representations and warranties), (ii) the Offerees shall deliver to
          the Offerors the Put Purchase Price in immediately available funds
          and/or by delivery of a certificate or certificates representing
          shares of GG Stock, as the case may be, equal in the aggregate to the
          Put Purchase Price, (iii) each of the Offerors and the Offerees shall
          (and shall cause their respective Affiliates to) take such other
          actions as shall be reasonably requested by the others to consummate
          the purchase and sale of the Offerors' Units as contemplated by this
          Article IX (including, if required, delivering notices to tenants
          relating to the sale and purchase, using commercially reasonable
          efforts (without being obligated to pay any amount or incur any
          obligation) to obtain tenant, lender, ground lessor or joint venturer
          consents and executing and delivering all amendments to fictitious
          name, limited liability company or similar certificates necessary to
          effect the withdrawal of the Offerors from the Company and, if
          applicable, the termination of the Company), (iv) the Offerors shall
          discharge of record all Liens, if any, affecting the Offerors' Units
          other than Liens permitted hereby (and, if the Offerors fail to do so,
          the Offerees may use any portion of the Put Purchase Price to pay and
          discharge any such Liens (other than Liens permitted hereby) and any
          related expenses and may adjourn the closing for such reasonable
          period not to exceed 30 days as may be necessary for such purpose),
          (v) the Offerees shall deliver to the Offerors an executed agreement
          indemnifying the Offerors against claims with respect to the Company
          arising from and after the closing and (vi) the portion of the Put
          Purchase Price attributable to the Other

63

Assets and/or the Liabilities may (notwithstanding anything to the
          contrary contained herein) be estimated at closing and adjusted
          between the parties within ninety (90) days thereafter based on the
          final determination of the Other Assets and the Liabilities.

                    (d) The Offerors and the Offerees will bear pro rata in
          accordance with their Proportionate Shares all transfer costs
          (including any transfer, deed, stamp or other similar taxes, recording
          fees and, subject to the terms of Section 13.1, prepayment penalties).
          At the election of the Offerees, the purchase and sale will be
          structured to avoid a termination of the Company for Federal income
          tax purposes (including a delayed purchase of up to a 1% membership
          interest of Offerors). If the Offerees or Offerors shall default in
          closing the purchase and sale to the Offerors, then the non-defaulting
          Members may pursue their remedies at law or in equity (including an
          action for specific performance). If a material casualty or
          condemnation shall occur prior to the closing date, then the Offerees
          shall have the right, upon written notice, to terminate their
          obligations to purchase Offerors' Units. If a casualty loss shall
          occur which is not material and the closing shall occur, the Offerees
          shall be entitled to receive the entire net proceeds of any insurance
          paid or payable in connection therewith (other than proceeds of rent
          insurance with respect to the period up to the date of sale, which
          shall be shared by the Members as other items are shared as provided
          herein). For purposes of this Section 9.6(d), a material casualty or
          condemnation shall be one which results in damage or a loss in an
          amount greater than five percent (5%) of the Value of the Properties
          as determined in accordance with this Article IX.

                    (e) If any purchase pursuant to this Article IX is subject
          to the premerger notification and reporting requirements of the
          Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended
          ("HSR"), and the rules and regulations thereunder (the "Rules"), then
          the Offerors and the Offerees shall use their respective reasonable
          best efforts to (i) duly file with the Federal Trade Commission
          ("FTC") and the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (the
          "Antitrust Division"), no later than the thirtieth (30th) day after
          the date the Put Response Notice is given, fully completed premerger
          notification and report forms which include a request for early
          termination of the waiting period pursuant to Section 7A(b)(2) of HSR
          and Rule 803.11 thereunder, and (ii) respond in a timely manner to all
          oral or written requests from the FTC or the Antitrust Division for
          additional information or documentary materials. Notwithstanding the
          foregoing, Offerees shall not be obligated to contest any action or
          decision taken by the FTC or the Antitrust Division challenging the
          consummation of the

64

acquisition of the Offerors' Units by the Offerees or otherwise agree
          to the imposition of any material restriction on the business or the
          operations of the Offerees or any of the Offerees' Affiliates. The
          filing fees incurred in connection with the premerger notification and
          report forms shall be borne by Offerors.

                    If the Offerors and the Offerees have complied with the
          provisions of the immediately preceding paragraph but the applicable
          waiting period under HSR with respect to the purchase of the Offerors'
          Units pursuant to this Article IX has not expired or been terminated
          by the closing date set forth in this Section 9.5, then,
          notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 9.5, the
          closing date shall be extended to the fifth business day after all
          applicable waiting periods under HSR have expired or been terminated.
          From and after the original closing date set forth in this Section
          9.5, the Offerors and the Offerees shall continue to use their
          respective reasonable best efforts to cause the applicable waiting
          period under HSR to be terminated.

                    (f) To the extent required to enable Offerees to publicly
          distribute any GG Stock received by them pursuant to this Article IX,
          GG Properties shall prepare and file with the Commission promptly
          following the closing of the purchase and sale pursuant to which such
          GG Stock was issued a shelf registration statement under the 33 Act
          registering such GG Stock. GG Properties shall maintain the
          effectiveness of such shelf registration statement with respect to
          such GG Stock, and shall include the Offerors as selling stockholders
          with respect to such shelf registration statement, to the extent the
          public distribution of such GG Stock would otherwise be prohibited
          under the 33 Act. All expenses of such shelf registration of GG Stock
          required by this Section 9.6 (g) shall be paid by GG Properties (but
          the Offerors shall be responsible for all brokerage fees and
          underwriting commissions). Upon the happening of any event during the
          period such registration statement is effective which in the judgment
          of GG Properties makes any statement made in such registration
          statement or the prospectus constituting a part thereof untrue in any
          material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such
          registration statement or prospectus in order to make the statements
          therein not misleading (an "Event"), GG Properties promptly shall
          prepare and file a supplement or post-effective amendment to such
          registration statement or prospectus or any document incorporated
          therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as
          thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the shares of GG Stock, such
          prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
          omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
          therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not

65

misleading; provided, however, that the obligation to prepare and file
          any such supplement or post-effective amendment or other document
          shall be suspended if GG Properties, relying upon advice of counsel,
          determines that disclosure of any information required to be included
          therein would be adverse to its interests. Upon receipt of a notice
          from GG Properties of the happening of any Event, Offerees shall
          forthwith discontinue disposition of securities pursuant to such
          registration statement until Offerors' receipt of the copies of a
          supplemented or amended prospectus. If requested by Offerors that are
          selling such GG Stock with a value of $50,000,000.00 or more pursuant
          to an underwritten offering, GG Properties will reasonably cooperate
          with Offerors in connection with such underwritten offering,
          including, upon request, entering into and performing its obligations
          under a customary underwriting agreement (which may include
          representations, warranties and indemnities customarily given by GG
          Properties to its underwriters) with the underwriters of such
          offering; provided that GG Properties shall have the right to select
          the lead or managing underwriter for such offering (such underwriter
          to be either Goldman, Sachs & Co. or one of the top three lead
          underwriters of REIT equity securities for the immediately preceding
          completed calendar year) and Offerors shall reimburse GG Properties
          for all reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by GG Properties in
          connection with such underwritten offering.

                    (g) After the date of the Put Response Notice until the
          closing of the purchase of the Offerors' Units by the Offerees
          pursuant to this Section 9.6, the transferring Members shall retain
          all rights with respect to their Units, including the right to select
          Board Members and to receive distributions paid or made with respect
          to such Units.

          9.7 SALE OF COMPANY

                    (a) In the event that the Offerees elect (or are deemed to
          have elected) to market and sell the Company Units or the Properties
          (or indirect interests therein) pursuant to Section 9.5(b) hereof, the
          Offerees shall use commercially reasonable best efforts for a period
          of 90 days after such election (or deemed election) to market the
          Company Units or the Properties (and/or the direct or indirect
          interests therein) for sale to one or more bona-fide third party
          purchasers in one or more arms-length transactions in accordance with
          the provisions of this Section 9.7; and, upon execution of a letter of
          intent (a "Letter of Intent") with one or more of such purchasers and
          subject to the provision of Section 9.7(c) and the other provisions of
          this Article IX, Offerors shall use commercially reasonable best
          efforts to sell or cause the sale of the Company Units, the Properties
          or the direct or indirect interests therein to such purchaser or
          purchasers in accordance with the terms of such Letter of Intent and
          the provisions of this Section 9.7.

66

(b) In the event that one or more Letters of Intent for the
          sale of the Company Units, the Properties and/or the direct or
          indirect interests therein are not fully executed and delivered within
          ninety (90) days following the election (or deemed election) of the
          Offerees pursuant to Section 9.5(b), the Offerors thereafter shall
          have the right for an additional ninety days to direct the marketing
          of the Company Units, the Properties and/or the direct or indirect
          interests therein to one or more bona fide third party purchasers in
          one or more arms-length transactions in accordance with the provisions
          of this Section 9.7; and, upon execution of a Letter of Intent with
          one or more of such purchasers and subject to the provisions of
          Section 9.7(c) and the other provisions of this Article IX, to sell or
          cause the sale of the Company Units, the Properties or the direct or
          indirect interests to such purchaser or purchasers in accordance with
          the terms of such Letter of Intent and the provisions of this Section
          9.7. The rights of the purchaser or purchasers of Company Units and/or
          Properties (or direct or indirect interests therein) under any Letter
          of Intent shall be subject to the rights of the Offerees under Section
          9.7(d) hereof.

                    (c) Unless otherwise approved by the Board, the sales price
          (net of credits and prorations) for the Company Units or Properties
          (or direct or indirect interests therein) payable by a bona-fide third
          party purchaser pursuant to this Section 9.7 (the "Net Sales Price")
          shall be no less than 95% of the Dissolution Value of the Company (for
          purposes of this Section 9.7, the Dissolution Value of the Company
          shall be calculated without reduction for Retained Debt or other
          Liabilities to the extent that the selling Members directly or
          indirectly remain responsible to pay such other Liabilities following
          the purchase and sale other than by reduction of the purchase price)
          and shall be payable and paid in cash. No sale of the Units or
          Properties (or indirect interests therein) may be consummated unless a
          Letter of Intent substantially reflecting the terms of this Section
          9.7, including Section 9.7(d), has been executed with respect thereto
          within either of the 90-day periods described above and no sale may be
          consummated later than six months following such 90-day period (unless
          the delay was due to the bad faith of Offerees).

                    (d) In the event that the Net Sales Price for the Company
          Units or Properties (or direct or indirect interests therein) based on
          the purchase price set forth in a fully-signed Letter of Intent is
          less than the Dissolution Value of the Company but at least 95% of the
          Dissolution Value of the Company, the Offerees shall have the right,
          exercisable by delivery of written notice to the Offerors within 30
          days

67

from the date of Offerees' receipt of such fully signed Letter of
          Intent, to purchase the Offerors' Units for a purchase price equal to
          the product of the Proportionate Share of the Offerors multiplied by
          the Net Sales Price and otherwise on the terms, provisions and
          conditions as are contained in such Letter of Intent. If the Offerees
          exercise such right in accordance with the foregoing provisions, the
          Offerees shall be bound to purchase the Units of the Offerors in
          accordance with such Letter of Intent (as modified in this Section
          9.7) and the Offerors shall be bound to sell their Units to Offerees
          on such terms. In the event that the Offerees deliver written notice
          of rejection to the Offerors or in the event that the Offerees fail to
          exercise their right as to the Offerors' Units in the manner required
          by this Section 9.7, the Offerors shall be free to cause (and to cause
          the Company and its Subsidiaries to cause) the sale of the Company
          Units or Properties (or the direct or indirect interests therein) to
          the purchaser or purchasers identified in such Letter of Intent upon
          terms not materially more favorable to the purchaser or purchasers
          than the terms contained in such Letter of Intent. In the event the
          terms of the sale of Company Units or Properties (or direct or
          indirect interests therein) become materially more favorable to the
          purchaser or purchasers, no sale, transfer, assignment or conveyance
          of the Company Units or Properties (or interests therein) may be made
          unless the provisions of this Section 9.7(d) are again complied with.
          Upon the sale of the Properties, the rights of GGPLP, GG Properties
          and its Affiliates as to property and other management thereof (and
          any agreements in respect thereof) shall terminate.

                    (e) In connection with the marketing and sale of the Company
          Units or the Properties (or direct or indirect interests therein)
          pursuant to this Section 9.7, (i) the Offerors or the Offerees, as the
          case may be, shall cause the Company to engage an investment banker or
          other broker that is reasonably satisfactory to the others and on
          customary terms (including the payment of customary fees and the
          making of customary representations, warranties and indemnities) to
          assist in the sale of the Company Units or Properties (or direct or
          indirect interests therein) (and the fees of such Person shall be
          borne by the Members pro rata in accordance with their Proportionate
          Shares), and (ii) each of Offerors and the Offerees shall (and shall
          cause each of its respective Affiliates to) execute and deliver such
          documents and take such other actions as the others shall reasonably
          request in order to consummate the transactions contemplated by this
          Section 9.7, including making or granting such representations,
          warranties and indemnities as are reasonable and customary in similar
          transactions and executing and delivering such instruments of
          conveyance as may be reasonably required to convey the Units or the
          Properties (or direct or indirect interests therein) in accordance
          with this Section 9.7.

68

(f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
          herein, if the Members cause the sale of Company Units or the
          Properties (or interests therein) to be sold to a bona fide third
          party purchaser or purchasers in accordance with the terms hereof, at
          the closing of such sale, such third party purchaser shall pay to the
          Members or the Company (or its Subsidiary, as appropriate), in
          immediately available funds, the entire purchase price to be paid for
          the same (and, if paid to the Company or any Subsidiary, such purchase
          price shall be distributed to the Members in accordance with the
          distribution provisions set forth in Article V with respect to Net
          Disposition Proceeds).

          9.8 PRIORITY. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein, from and after the delivery of a Put Notice, the Class A Members shall
not have the right to Transfer their Units pursuant to Article VIII or deliver a
Buy-Sell Notice pursuant to Article X hereof and the Class B Members shall not
have the right to deliver a Dissolution Commencement Notice pursuant to Article
XI hereof or Transfer their Units unless the Put Notice shall have been
withdrawn pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.4 hereof or the provisions of
this Article IX otherwise have been carried out.

                                    ARTICLE X
                                 BUY-SELL RIGHT

          10.1 BUY-SELL RIGHT. The Class A Members (acting by majority vote)
shall have the right (the "Buy-Sell Right") to require the Class B Members to,
at the Class B Members' sole election, sell all of their Units to the Class A
Members or purchase all of the Class A Member's Units upon the terms contained
herein. Any action by the Class A Members hereunder shall for all purposes
hereunder bind and be deemed to include all other Class A Members hereunder, and
any action by the Class B Members hereunder shall for all purposes hereunder
bind and be deemed to include all other Class B Members hereunder.

          10.2 EXERCISE. The Buy-Sell Right is exercisable only by delivery of
written notice (the "Buy-Sell Notice") to the Class B Members at any time from
and after (but in no event sooner than) the later of the third anniversary of
the date hereof and the Stonebriar Grand Opening. The Buy-Sell Notice shall
specify that the provisions of this Article X are being invoked and shall
contain a value designated by the Class A Members for all of the Properties (the
"Buy-Sell Designated Values").

          10.3 OPTION OF CLASS B MEMBERS. Upon receipt of the Buy-Sell Notice,
the Class B Members (acting by majority vote) shall have

69

the right to either (a) purchase all of the Class A Members' Units or (b) sell
all of the Class B Members' Units to the Class A Members, in each case upon the
terms contained herein. The Class B Members may exercise such right by written
notice to the Class A Members, delivered within sixty (60) days after the
Buy-Sell Notice is given, of its election (each such notice, a "Buy-Sell
Response Notice"). If the Class B Members shall not deliver a Buy-Sell Response
Notice within such sixty (60) day period, the Class B Members shall be deemed to
have elected the alternative set forth in clause (b) above. After the date of
the Buy-Sell Response Notice until the closing of the purchase by the Transferee
Members pursuant to this Article X, the Transferring Members shall retain all
rights and obligations with respect to their Units, including the right to
select Board Members and to receive distributions paid or made with respect to
such Units.

          10.4 PURCHASE PRICE; PAYMENT OF PURCHASE PRICE; CLOSING.

                    (a) The purchase price for the Units of the Transferring
          Members (the "Buy-Sell Purchase Price") shall equal the product of the
          Dissolution Value of the Company (calculated using the Buy-Sell
          Designated Values as the Values of the Properties) multiplied by the
          Proportionate Share of the Transferring Members, and the Buy-Sell
          Purchase Price shall be paid in cash.

                    (b) The closing of the purchase and sale of Units pursuant
          to the Buy-Sell Right shall take place at the offices of counsel to
          the Class B Members and shall occur on the date that is no sooner than
          thirty (30) days and no later than one hundred eighty (180) days after
          the Buy-Sell Response Notice (or, where no Buy-Sell Response Notice is
          given, the last day for giving the Buy-Sell Response Notice) unless
          the Members shall have agreed upon a different date in writing. At
          such closing, (i) the Transferring Members shall deliver to the
          Transferee Members reasonable and customary instruments of transfer
          sufficient to Transfer to the Transferee Members the Units of the
          Transferring Members, free and clear of any Liens other than Liens
          created by, through or under the Transferee Members or Liens created
          in connection with Company financing (such instruments to contain
          surviving representations and warranties concerning due organization
          or formation, due authorization, execution and delivery and the
          absence of Liens (other than as permitted hereby) and no other
          representations and warranties), (ii) the Transferee Members shall
          deliver to the Transferring Members the Buy-Sell Purchase Price in
          immediately available funds (iii) each of the Members shall take and
          shall cause their respective Affiliates to take such other actions as
          shall be reasonably requested by the others to consummate the purchase
          and sale of Units as contemplated by this Article X (including, if
          required, delivering notices to tenants relating to the sale and
          purchase, using

70

commercially reasonable efforts (without being obligated to pay any
          amount or incur any obligation) to obtain tenant, lender, ground
          lessor or joint venturer consents and executing and delivering all
          amendments to fictitious name, limited liability company or similar
          certificates necessary to effect the withdrawal of the Transferring
          Members from the Company and, if applicable, the termination of the
          Company), (iv) the Transferring Members shall discharge of record all
          Liens affecting the Transferee Members' Units, if any, other than
          Liens permitted hereby (and, if the Transferring Members fail to do
          so, the Transferee Members may use any portion of the Buy-Sell
          Purchase Price to pay and discharge any such Liens (other than Liens
          permitted hereby) and any related expenses and may adjourn the closing
          for such reasonable period not to exceed 30 days as may be necessary
          for such purpose), (v) the Transferee Members shall deliver to the
          Transferring Members an executed agreement indemnifying the
          Transferring Members against claims with respect to the Company
          arising from and after the closing and (vi) the portion of the
          Buy-Sell Purchase Price attributable to the Other Assets and/or the
          Liabilities may (notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
          herein) be estimated at closing and adjusted between the parties
          within 90 days thereafter based on the final determination of the
          Other Assets and the Liabilities.

                    (c) The Transferring Members and the Transferee Members will
          bear pro rata in accordance with their Proportionate Shares all
          transfer costs (including any transfer, deed, stamp or other similar
          taxes, recording fees and, subject to the terms of Article XIII,
          prepayment penalties). At the election of the Transferee Member, the
          purchase and sale will be structured to avoid a termination of the
          Company for Federal income tax purposes (including a delayed purchase
          of up to a 1% membership interest of Transferring Members). If the
          Transferee Members or the Transferring Members shall default in
          closing the purchase and sale to the Transferee Members, then the
          non-defaulting Members may pursue their remedies at law or in equity
          (including an action for specific performance). If a material casualty
          or condemnation shall occur prior to the closing date, then the
          Transferee Members shall have the right, upon written notice, to
          terminate their obligations to purchase Transferring Members' Units.
          If a casualty loss shall occur which is not material and the closing
          shall occur, the Transferee Members shall be entitled to receive the
          entire net proceeds of any insurance paid or payable in connection
          therewith (other than proceeds of rent insurance with respect to the
          period up to the date of sale, which shall be shared by the Members as
          other items are shared as provided herein). For purposes of this
          Section 10.4(c), a material casualty or condemnation shall be one
          which results in damage or a loss in an amount greater than five
          percent (5%) of the Buy-Sell Designated Values.

71

(d) If any purchase pursuant to this Article X is subject to
          the premerger notification and reporting requirements of HSR and the
          Rules, then the Members shall use their respective reasonable best
          efforts to (i) duly file with the FTC and the Antitrust Division, no
          later than the thirtieth (30th) day after the date the Buy-Sell
          Response Notice is given (or, where no Buy-Sell Response Notice is
          given, the last day for giving the Buy-Sell Response Notice), fully
          completed premerger notification and report forms which include a
          request for early termination of the waiting period pursuant to
          Section 7A(b)(2) of HSR and Rule 803.11 thereunder, and (ii) respond
          in a timely manner to all oral or written requests from the FTC or the
          Antitrust Division for additional information or documentary
          materials. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Transferee Members shall
          not be obligated to contest any action or decision taken by the FTC or
          the Antitrust Division challenging the consummation of the acquisition
          of the Transferring Members' Units by the Transferee Members or
          otherwise agree to the imposition of any material restriction on the
          business or the operations of the Transferee Members or any of their
          Affiliates. The filing fees incurred in connection with the premerger
          notification and report forms shall be borne by the Class A Members.

                    If the Members have complied with the provisions of the
          immediately preceding paragraph but the applicable waiting period
          under HSR with respect to the purchase of the Transferring Members'
          Units pursuant to this Article X has not expired or been terminated by
          the closing date set forth in this Section 10.4, then, notwithstanding
          anything to the contrary in this Section 10.4, the closing date shall
          be extended to the fifth business day after all applicable waiting
          periods under HSR have expired or been terminated. From and after the
          original closing date set forth in this Section 10.4, the Members
          shall continue to use their respective reasonable best efforts to
          cause the applicable waiting period under HSR to be terminated.

          10.5 PRIORITY. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein, from and after the delivery of a Buy-Sell Notice, the Class B Members
shall not have the right to Transfer their Units pursuant to Article VIII or
deliver a Put Notice pursuant to Article IX hereof or a Dissolution Commencement
Notice pursuant to Article XI hereof.

                                   ARTICLE XI
                            SPECIAL DISSOLUTION RIGHT

          11.1 SPECIAL DISSOLUTION RIGHT. The Class B Members (acting by
majority vote) shall have the right (the "Dissolution Right") to require that,
at the Class A Members' election, (a) certain Company

72

Properties be distributed to the Class B Members or (b) the Class A Members'
purchase all of the Class B Members' Units upon the terms contained herein. Any
action by the Class A Members hereunder shall for all purposes hereunder bind
and be deemed to include all other Class A Members hereunder, and any action by
the Class B Members hereunder shall for all purposes hereunder bind and be
deemed to include all other Class B Members hereunder.

          11.2 EXERCISE. The Dissolution Right is only exercisable by delivering
a written notice (the "Dissolution Commencement Notice") to the Class A Members
from and after (but in no event sooner than) the Trigger Date. The Dissolution
Commencement Notice shall specify that the provisions of this Article XI are
being invoked and include Proposed Values for the Company Properties.

          11.3 DISSOLUTION VALUE OF THE COMPANY. Upon receipt of a Dissolution
Commencement Notice, the Dissolution Value of the Company shall be determined in
the manner specified in Section 9.3.

          11.4 RIGHT TO WITHDRAW DISSOLUTION COMMENCEMENT NOTICE. Upon
determination of the Value of the all Properties as provided above, the Class B
Members (by majority vote) shall have sixty (60) days to withdraw, by written
notice to the Class A Members, the Dissolution Commencement Notice in the event
the aggregate Value of all Properties is less than the Class B Members'
aggregate Proposed Values for all Properties. If within such sixty (60) day
period the Class B Members shall not have withdrawn the Dissolution Commencement
Notice, the Dissolution Commencement Notice shall become effective. The last day
of such sixty (60) day period (or, where the Class B Members have no right to
withdraw, the date upon which the Members have received written notice of the
Value of all Properties) is referred to herein as the "Dissolution Commencement
Notice Effective Date". In the event of a withdrawal of the Dissolution
Commencement Notice, the Class B Members shall pay all costs and expenses of all
Appraisers, the Class B Members may not again deliver a Dissolution Commencement
Notice until the last day of the eighteenth full calendar month following the
withdrawal of the Dissolution Commencement Notice and the Class B Members shall
have no right to again withdraw a Dissolution Commencement Notice if a
Dissolution Commencement Notice is given thereafter.

          11.5 OPTION OF CLASS A MEMBERS. Upon the Dissolution Notice Effective
Date, the Class A Members shall have the right to either (a) purchase all of
Class B Members' Units or (b) elect to distribute certain of Properties, in each
case in accordance with the provisions hereof. The Class A Members may exercise
such right by written notice to the Class B Members, delivered within sixty (60)
days after the Dissolution Notice Effective Date, of its election (each such
notice, a "Dissolution Response Notice"). If the Class A Members shall not
deliver a Dissolution Response Notice within such sixty (60) days period, the
Class A Members shall be deemed to have elected the alternative set forth in
clause (b) above.

73

11.6 PURCHASE OF CLASS B MEMBERS' UNITS. If the Class A Members elect
to purchase all of the Class B Members' Units pursuant to Section 11.5 above,
the following shall apply:

                    (a) The purchase price for the Class B Members' Units (the
          "Dissolution Purchase Price") shall equal the product of the aggregate
          Proportionate Shares of the Class B Members multiplied by the
          Dissolution Value of the Company, and the Dissolution Purchase Price
          shall be paid in cash.

                    (b) The closing of the purchase and sale of the Class B
          Members' Units shall take place at the offices of counsel to the Class
          A Members and shall occur on the date that is no later than one
          hundred eighty (180) days after the Dissolution Response Notice is
          given unless the Members shall have agreed upon a different date in
          writing. At such closing, (i) the Class B Members shall deliver to the
          Class A Members reasonable and customary instruments of transfer
          sufficient to Transfer to the Class A Members the Units of the Class B
          Members, free and clear of any Liens other than Liens created by,
          through or under the Class A Members or Liens created in connection
          with Company financing (such instruments to contain surviving
          representations and warranties concerning due organization or
          formation, due authorization, execution and delivery and the absence
          of Liens (other than as permitted hereby) and no other representations
          and warranties), (ii) the Class A Members shall deliver to the Class B
          Members the Dissolution Purchase Price in immediately available funds
          (iii) each of the Members shall take and shall cause their respective
          Affiliates to take such other actions as shall be reasonably requested
          by the others to consummate the purchase and sale of Units as
          contemplated by this Article XI (including, if required, delivering
          notices to tenants relating to the sale and purchase, using
          commercially reasonable efforts (without being obligated to pay any
          amount or incur any obligation) to obtain tenant, lender, ground
          lessor or joint venturer consents and executing and delivering all
          amendments to fictitious name, limited liability company or similar
          certificates necessary to effect the withdrawal of the Class B Members
          from the Company and, if applicable, the termination of the Company),
          (iv) the Class B Members shall discharge of record all Liens affecting
          the Class B Members' Units, if any, other than Liens permitted hereby
          (and, if the Class B Members fail to do so, the Class A Members may
          use any portion of the Dissolution Purchase Price to pay and discharge
          any such Liens (other than Liens permitted hereby) and any related
          expenses and may adjourn the closing for such reasonable period not to
          exceed 30 days as may be necessary for such purpose), (v) the Class A
          Members shall deliver to

74

the Class B Members an executed agreement indemnifying the Class B
          Members against claims with respect to the Company arising from and
          after the closing and (vi) the portion of the Dissolution Purchase
          Price attributable to the Other Assets and/or the Liabilities may
          (notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein) be
          estimated at closing and adjusted between the parties within ninety
          (90) days thereafter based on the final determination of the Other
          Assets and the Liabilities.

                    (c) The Class A Members and the Class B Members will bear
          pro rata in accordance with their Proportionate Shares all transfer
          costs (including any transfer, deed, stamp or other similar taxes,
          recording fees and, subject to the terms of Article XIII, prepayment
          penalties). At the election of the Class A Members, the purchase and
          sale will be structured to avoid a termination of the Company for
          Federal income tax purposes (including a delayed purchase of up to a
          1% membership interest of Class B Members). If the Class A Members or
          the Class B Members shall default in closing the purchase and sale to
          the Class A Members, then the non-defaulting Members may pursue their
          remedies at law or in equity (including an action for specific
          performance). If a material casualty or condemnation shall occur prior
          to the closing date, then the Class A Members shall have the right,
          upon written notice, to terminate their obligations to purchase the
          Class B Members' Units. If a casualty loss shall occur which is not
          material and the closing shall occur, the Class A Members shall be
          entitled to receive the entire net proceeds of any insurance paid or
          payable in connection therewith (other than proceeds of rent insurance
          relating to the period up to the date of sale, which shall be shared
          by the Members as other items are shared as provided herein). For
          purposes of this Section 11.6(c), a material casualty or condemnation
          shall be one which results in damage or a loss in an amount greater
          than five percent (5%) of the Dissolution Purchase Price.

                    (d) If any purchase pursuant to this Article XI is subject
          to the premerger notification and reporting requirements of HSR and
          the Rules, then the Members shall use their respective reasonable best
          efforts to (i) duly file with the FTC and the Antitrust Division, no
          later than the thirtieth (30th) day after the date the Dissolution
          Response Notice is given, fully completed premerger notification and
          report forms which include a request for early termination of the
          waiting period pursuant to Section 7A(b)(2) of HSR and Rule 803.11
          thereunder, and (ii) respond in a timely manner to all oral or written
          requests from the FTC or the Antitrust Division for additional
          information or documentary materials. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
          the Class A Members shall not be obligated to contest any action or
          decision taken by the

75

FTC or the Antitrust Division challenging the consummation of the
          acquisition of the Class B Members' Units by the Class A Members or
          otherwise agree to the imposition of any material restriction on the
          business or the operations of the Class A Members or any of their
          Affiliates. The filing fees incurred in connection with the premerger
          notification and report forms shall be borne by the Class B Members.

                    If the Members have complied with the provisions of the
          immediately preceding paragraph but the applicable waiting period
          under HSR with respect to the purchase of the Class B Members' Units
          pursuant to this Article XI has not expired or been terminated by the
          closing date set forth in this Section 11.6, then, notwithstanding
          anything to the contrary in this Section 11.6, the closing date shall
          be extended to the fifth business day after all applicable waiting
          periods under HSR have expired or been terminated. From and after the
          original closing date set forth in this Section 11.6, the Members
          shall continue to use their respective reasonable best efforts to
          cause the applicable waiting period under HSR to be terminated.

                    (e) After the date of the Dissolution Response Notice until
          the closing of the purchase of the Class B Members' Units by the Class
          A Members pursuant to this Article XI, the Class B Members shall
          retain all rights with respect to their Units, including the right to
          select Board Members and to receive distributions paid or made with
          respect to such Units.

          11.7 DISTRIBUTION OF PROPERTIES.

          (a) If the Class A Members elect to distribute certain of the
Company's Properties or the Company's direct or indirect interests therein
(together with associated liabilities) pursuant to Section 11.5 hereof, the
Company's Properties (together with associated liabilities) shall be divided
among the Class A Members, on the one hand, and the Class B Members, on the
other hand, by having each select Properties on an alternating one-by-one basis
(with the Class B Members being entitled to the first selection) until either
the Class A Members or the Class B Members have selected Properties having a
Dissolution Value equal to their Proportionate Share of the Dissolution Value of
all of the Company's Properties with any remaining Properties going to the other
party or parties.

          (b) The "Dissolution Value of a Property" shall be the Value of the
Property, determined in accordance with Section 9.3 above, plus the book value
of the Other Assets as of the date of distribution (including Cash Reserves and
other non-operating assets) that are attributable or allocable to such Property
less the Liabilities as of the date of distribution (including corporate level
liabilities) that are associated with or allocable to such

76

Property (excluding Retained Debt, which for this purpose is not a Liability and
is to be paid in accordance with Section 13.1). The determination of the
Accountants as to the Other Assets and the Liabilities (and the allocation
thereof among the Properties) shall be binding.

          (c) All Properties selected by the Class B Members or any direct or
indirect interests therein (together with associated liabilities) will be
distributed to the Class B Members in exchange for all of their Units, and the
Class B Members shall thereafter no longer be Members of the Company and such
Properties shall no longer be owned by the Company or any Affiliate thereof for
any purpose, including with respect to governance, distributions, valuation or
management (and the other Properties shall continue to be owned by the Company
and its Subsidiaries and the Class A Members shall continue to own their Units
in the Company). Upon distribution of Properties to the Class B Members, any
management agreements between GGPLP, GG Properties or any Affiliate of either of
them shall terminate without further action except for the provisions thereof
which expressly survive the termination thereof. During the period prior to the
distribution, the risk of casualty, damage or condemnation or other adverse
change with respect to any Property to be distributed to the Class B Members
shall be borne by the Class B Members and with respect to any Property to be
retained by the Company shall be borne by the Company, provided, however, that
any insurance proceeds payable with respect thereto (other than proceeds of rent
insurance relating to the period up to the date of sale, which shall be shared
by the Members as other items are shared as provided herein) shall, with respect
to a Property to be distributed to the Class B Members, be paid to the Class B
Members, and with respect to a Property to be retained by the Company, be paid
to the Company. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the
equity interests in the Entities directly or indirectly owning the Properties
that otherwise are to be distributed to the Class B Members may be distributed
to the Class B Members in lieu of the distribution of such Properties to the
Class B Members.

          (d) The closing of the distribution of the Properties to be
distributed to the Class B Members (together with associated or allocable
liabilities) shall take place at the offices of the counsel to the Class A
Members and shall occur on a date that is no less than 30 days and no more than
180 days after the date on which such Properties to be distributed were selected
unless the Members shall have agreed upon a different date in writing. At such
closing, (i) the Members (or their respective Affiliates) shall cause the
Company to deliver to the Class B Members (or their designees) reasonable and
customary instruments of transfer sufficient to Transfer to the Class B Members
(or their designees) the Properties selected by the Class B Members for
distribution (or the Company's direct or indirect interests therein), any
personal, intangible or tangible property related thereto and the Company's

77

(or its Subsidiaries') interest in all of the leases, contracts and other third
party agreements relating to the operation and maintenance of such Properties
(such instruments to contain surviving representations and warranties concerning
due organization or formation and due authorization, execution and delivery and
no other representations and warranties), (ii) the Class B Members shall deliver
to the Class A Members reasonable and customary instruments of transfer and
assumption sufficient to Transfer to the Class A Members the Class B Members'
Units, free and clear of any Liens other than Liens created by, through or under
the Class A Members or Liens created in connection with Company financing, and
sufficient to effect the assumption by the Class B Members of all liabilities
associated with or allocable to the Properties directly or indirectly
distributed to them (such instruments to contain surviving representations and
warranties concerning due organization or formation, due authorization,
execution and delivery and the absence of Liens (other than as permitted hereby)
and no other representations and warranties), (iii) the Class B Members shall
discharge of record all Liens and encumbrances affecting the Class B Members'
Units if any other than as permitted hereby, and (iv) each of the Members shall
take and shall cause their respective Affiliates to take such other actions as
shall be reasonably requested by the others to consummate the transactions as
contemplated by this Article XI (including the execution and delivery of all
amendments to fictitious name, limited liability company or similar certificates
necessary to effect the withdrawal of the Class B Members from the Company and,
if applicable, the termination of the Company). The Class A Members, on the one
hand, and the Class B Members, on the other hand, will bear pro rata in
accordance with their Proportionate Shares all transfer costs (including any
transfer, deed, stamp or other similar taxes, recording fees, title insurance
premiums, costs of surveys and, subject to the terms of Article XIII, any
prepayment penalties and other amounts payable to lenders (other than prepayment
penalties and other amounts payable in respect of Retained Debt). In connection
with the distributions pursuant to this Article XI, the Class B Members shall
have the right to receive title insurance policies and surveys reflecting such
distributions and otherwise reflecting the condition of title and survey matters
as of the closing date for the Properties distributed to them and the Class A
Members shall have the right to receive title insurance policies and surveys
reflecting such distributions and otherwise reflecting the condition of title
and survey matters as of the closing date for the other Properties.

          (e) The Class B Members shall indemnify the Company and the Class A
Members against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities arising out of or
relating to the Properties (and associated liabilities) distributed to the Class
B Members (other than losses, claims, damages or liabilities that were created
and known by the Class A Members and not disclosed to Class B Members). The
Company and the Class A Members shall indemnify the Class B Members against

78

any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (other than losses, claims, damages
or liabilities that were created and known by the Class B Members and not
disclosed to the Class A Members) arising out of or relating to the Properties
(and associated liabilities) retained by the Company or distributed to the Class
A Member.

          (f) Each of the Members will and shall cause its respective Affiliates
to cooperate with the others to facilitate the distribution of Properties
contemplated by this Section 11.7, including with respect to (i) delivering
required notices to tenants relating to the distribution, (ii) using
commercially reasonable efforts (without being obligated to pay any amount or
incur any obligation) to obtain tenant, lender, ground lessor or joint venturer
consents, if required, (iii) using commercially reasonable efforts (without
being obligated to pay any amounts or incur any obligation) to eliminate any
cross-collateralized or cross-defaulted financings between the properties
selected by the Class B Members, on the one hand, and the other Properties, on
the other hand, including by agreeing to encumber properties not designated for
transfer. If the Class A Members or the Class B Members shall default in closing
the distributions contemplated by this Article XI, then the non-defaulting
Members may pursue their remedies at law or in equity (including an action for
specific performance).

          (g) If as a result of the selection process described above, one party
shall be entitled to Properties that have an aggregate Dissolution Value (based
on the Dissolution Value of the Properties obtained pursuant to this Section
11.7) in excess of such party's Proportionate Share of the Dissolution Value of
all of the Company's Properties, then such party shall pay a cash adjustment to
the other party. Such cash adjustment shall be paid on the date the distribution
of Properties is made.

          (h) If at the time a distribution of Properties is to be made and
subject to the obligations of the Members hereunder to repay certain of the
Retained Debt, a Property (an "Impaired Property") cannot be distributed due to
an inability to remove it from a cross-collateralized or cross-defaulted pool,
the inability to obtain a necessary consent or any other similar matter, then
such Property shall be retained by the Company and the Members shall reselect
the Properties that remain in the Company and that were selected after the
Impaired Property was selected, on an alternating one-by-one basis.

          11.8 PRIORITY. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Article
VIII, X or XI, from and after the delivery of a Dissolution Commencement Notice
by the Class B Members, the Class B Members shall not have the right to deliver
a Put Notice pursuant to Article IX or Transfer their Units pursuant to Article
VIII and the Class A Members shall not have the right to deliver a Buy-Sell
Notice pursuant to Article X or Transfer their Units pursuant to

79

Article VIII unless the Class B Group has withdrawn such Dissolution
Commencement Notice pursuant to Section 11.4.

                                   ARTICLE XII
                           DISSOLUTION AND TERMINATION

          12.1 DISSOLUTION. Unless otherwise expressly provided herein to the
contrary, the Company shall continue in effect until dissolved and wound up upon
the occurrence of any one or more of the following events:

                    (a) the termination, dissolution, insolvency, bankruptcy or
          withdrawal of any Member (other than in connection with a valid
          transfer of Units in accordance with the terms hereof) unless the
          Board elects to continue the business of the Company;

                    (b) the decision of the Board to dissolve the Company;

                    (c) the sale of all or substantially all of the Company
          Assets and the receipt of all consideration therefor except that if
          non-monetary consideration is received upon such disposition, the
          Company shall not be dissolved pursuant to this clause until such
          consideration is converted into money or money equivalent; and

                    (d) dissolution required by operation of law.

          Dissolution of the Company caused by a Member in contravention of this
Agreement shall be a violation of this Agreement and the other Member shall have
all rights and remedies provided under applicable law and, in addition thereto,
the right to any and all damages at law or in equity resulting from such
violation of this Agreement. To the extent permissible by law, whether or not
the business of the Company is continued by the non-defaulting Member, such
non-defaulting Member shall be permitted to withhold the defaulting Member's
share of Company property the defaulting Member would otherwise be entitled to
under this Article XII upon the winding-up and termination of the Company as
collateral security for the obligations such defaulting Member may have to the
non-defaulting Member in connection with the operation and dissolution of the
Company.

          12.2 ACCOUNTING. Upon the dissolution of the Company, a proper
accounting shall be made of the assets and liabilities of the Company, including
all Operating Cash Flow and Net Disposition Proceeds, and the Capital Account of
each Member as of the date of dissolution and of the items of Net Income and Net
Loss of the Company from the date of the last previous accounting to the date of
dissolution. The financial statements and reports specified in Section 6.3 shall
be prepared by the Liquidating Member and

80

distributed to each Member as though the date of dissolution were the last day
of the then current fiscal year and shall reflect such accounting. The
Liquidating Member shall also prepare a report (and deliver the same to each of
the Members) setting forth in reasonable detail the manner and disposition of
assets.

          12.3 WINDING-UP.

                    (a) Winding-Up. Upon the dissolution of the Company, the
          affairs of the Company thereafter shall be wound up and terminated as
          promptly as practicable in an orderly and businesslike and
          commercially reasonable manner, and the Members shall continue to
          share Net Income, Net Loss, Net Operating Cash Flow, Net Disposition
          Proceeds and other items of the Company during the winding-up period
          in accordance with the provisions of Articles IV and V hereof. Subject
          to the provisions of Article VII, the winding-up of the affairs of the
          Company and the distribution of its assets shall be conducted
          exclusively by the Liquidating Member in accordance with the
          provisions hereof. In considering the sale of any Company Assets, the
          Board may determine to defer the sale of all or any portion of the
          Company Assets if deemed necessary or appropriate to realize the Fair
          Market Value of any such Company Assets.

                    (b) Termination. Upon the completion of the winding up of
          the Company and the distribution of all Company assets, the Company
          shall terminate and the Liquidating Member shall have the authority to
          execute and record any and all other documents required to effectuate
          the termination of the Company and the Members shall cooperate in the
          execution and delivery of any such reasonable documents required to
          effectuate the termination of the Company.

          12.4 LIQUIDATING DISTRIBUTION. In the event of the dissolution of the
Company for any reason, the Company assets shall be liquidated for distribution
in the following rank and order:

                    (a) first, to the payment and discharge of all the Company's
          debts and liabilities in the order of priority as provided by law;

                    (b) second, to the establishment of any necessary reserves
          to provide for contingent liabilities or obligations of the Company as
          determined by the Board in its commercially reasonable judgment, if
          any; and

                    (c) the balance, if any, to the Members pro rata in
          accordance with their respective positive Capital Accounts, after
          giving effect to all contributions, distributions and allocations for
          all periods, including the period during which such distributions
          occur.

81

12.5 DISTRIBUTIONS IN ACCORDANCE WITH CAPITAL ACCOUNTS. In the event
the Company is "liquidated" within the meaning of Regulation Section
1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(g) (the "Liquidation Event"), distributions shall be in
accordance with their respective positive Capital Accounts in compliance with
Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(b)(2), such distributions to be made on or
before a date (the "Final Liquidation Date") no later than the later to occur of
(i) the last day of the taxable year of the Company in which the Liquidation
Event occurs and (ii) ninety days after the date of such Liquidation Event. If
the Board determines that the distributions will not be timely made as provided
in foregoing paragraph (a), all of the assets and liabilities of the Company
shall be distributed in trust with such person as may be selected by the Board,
as trustee; the purpose of the trust is to allow the Company to comply with the
timing requirements contained in foregoing paragraph (a). The trustee of said
trust shall distribute the former Company assets (however constituted, enhanced
or otherwise) as promptly as he deems proper and in the same manner as directed
in this Section 12.5 (without regard to this sentence or the preceding sentence)
and otherwise as required hereunder. The trust shall be terminated as soon as
possible after the trust property is distributed to the beneficiaries thereof.

          12.6 NEGATIVE CAPITAL ACCOUNTS. No Member shall have an obligation to
the Company or any other Member to restore to zero any negative balance in its
Capital Account.

          12.7 DISTRIBUTIONS IN KIND. Company Assets may not be distributed in
kind without the approval of the Board.

          12.8 NO REDEMPTION. The Company may not acquire, by redemption or
otherwise, any Units of any Member.

          12.9 GOVERNANCE. Notwithstanding a dissolution of the Company, until
the termination of the business of the Company, the affairs of the Members, as
such, shall be continue to be governed by this Agreement. The Liquidating Member
shall be subject to the same restrictions on transactions with related parties
or involving conflicts of interest as applied prior to the dissolution of the
Company, including the consent requirements set forth herein for any such
transaction.

          12.10 RETURN OF CAPITAL. No Member shall have any right to receive the
return of its Capital Contribution or to seek or obtain partition of assets of
the Company, other than as provided in this Agreement.

82

ARTICLE XIII
                        MATTERS RELATING TO RETAINED DEBT

          13.1 PAYMENT OF RETAINED DEBT.

                    (a) Each Member's Capital Account, as of the date hereof,
          reflects the agreed upon value of the property contributed to the
          Company pursuant to the Contribution Agreements without regard to the
          existence of any Retained Debt. For income tax reporting and for all
          other purposes under this Agreement, the GGPLP Retained Debt and
          NYSCRF Retained Debt shall be treated as the indebtedness of GGPLP and
          NYSCRF, respectively.

                    (b) Each Member shall pay the principal, interest and other
          amounts (including prepayment penalties) in respect of the Retained
          Debt of such Member as and when due and payable.

                    (c) Each Member shall prepay and otherwise discharge the
          Retained Debt of such Member in respect of any Property (including
          payment of prepayment penalties) in the event that such Property (or
          any direct or indirect interest therein) is Transferred (other than to
          another Subsidiary), and each Member shall prepay and otherwise
          discharge all of the Retained Debt of such Member (including payment
          of prepayment penalties) in the event that the Company dissolves and
          is liquidated and wound-up or such Member Transfers all of its Units
          to the other Member or Members or other Person (other than an
          Affiliate of the Transferring Member) pursuant to this Agreement
          (unless the Transferee Person assumes responsibility for the
          obligations hereunder relating to such Retained Debt). A payment
          required to be made pursuant to this subsection (c) shall be made
          concurrent with or prior to the Transfer of Properties or Units to
          which such payment relates or the dissolution, liquidation and
          winding-up of the Company, as the case may be.

                    (d) Each Member may, at any time and from time to time,
          prepay all or a portion of its Retained Debt.

          13.2 FAILURE TO MAKE PAYMENTS IN RESPECT OF RETAINED DEBT.

                    (a) If a Member determines that another Member has failed to
          pay any principal, interest or other amount required pursuant to this
          Article XIII, such Member shall send a written notice (the "Retained
          Debt Default Notice") to such other Member, notifying such other
          Member of its failure to make such payment, the amount of such
          payment, the date such payment was due, and requesting that such
          payment be paid immediately.

                    (b) If a Member fails to make a payment of principal,
          interest or other amount required under this Article XIII within 15
          days after receiving the Retained Debt Default Notice, then such
          Member shall be in default (the Member in default is referred to as a
          "Retained Debt Defaulting Member" and the amount that such Defaulting
          Member failed to

83

contribute is referred to as the "Retained Debt Default Amount") and
          the Members that are not Default Members (the "Retained Debt
          Non-Defaulting Members") may (i) pay (and hereby are granted a power
          of attorney to pay) the Retained Debt Default Amount (which shall be
          deemed to be a loan by the Retained Debt Non-Defaulting Members to the
          Retained Debt Defaulting Members) and/or (ii) pursue their other
          rights and remedies hereunder and, subject to the terms hereof, at law
          or in equity. Any such loan (a "Retained Debt Default Loan") shall
          bear interest at the per annum rate equal to Prime plus 4% and shall
          be payable on demand. The foregoing power of attorney and the power of
          attorney granted pursuant to Section 14.2(b) are special powers of
          attorney coupled with an interest, are irrevocable and shall survive
          the dissolution of each Member and shall survive the delivery of an
          assignment by a Member of the whole or any portion of its Units.

          13.3 INDEMNIFICATION. In addition to the obligations pursuant to
Section 13.1 hereof, each Member agrees to indemnify, defend (with counsel
reasonably approved by the Company) and hold harmless the Company and the
Subsidiaries, the direct or indirect directors, officers, members, partners,
shareholders, employees, representatives and agents of the Company and the
Subsidiaries and their successors and assigns (collectively, the "Indemnitees"),
from and against any claims, actions, proceedings, judgments, obligations,
damages, penalties, costs, expenses, liabilities of any kind or nature or
losses, including sums paid in settlement of claims and reasonable attorneys'
fees, paralegals' fees and expenses, court costs (including any such fees and
expenses incurred in enforcing this Agreement or collecting any sums due
hereunder), and fees of consultants and experts (collectively, the "Costs") that
arise directly or indirectly from the Retained Debt of such Member (other than a
Cost resulting from the breach by the Company or an Indemnitee of the provisions
hereof).

          13.4 SECURITY INTEREST.

                    (a) Each Member hereby assigns and grants to the other
          Member a first priority lien upon, and a security interest in, all of
          the Units of such Member and all amounts, payments and proceeds
          distributable or payable to such Member by the Company, now or in the
          future, as collateral security for the payment and performance of such
          Member's obligations under this Article XIII and Article XIV. Each
          Member shall execute such confirmation and financing statements as the
          other Member shall reasonably request in order to perfect and maintain
          the perfection of the lien and security interest herein granted. Any
          transfer of the Units of a Member shall be subject to such lien and
          security interest. Unless either Member becomes a Defaulting Member,
          such Member shall remain entitled to receive distributions in
          accordance with Article V hereof and exercise all other rights in
          respect of its Units.

84

(b) If (and only if) either Member becomes a Defaulting
          Member and except as otherwise provided herein, all amounts, payments
          and proceeds which may become distributable or payable by the Company
          to such Defaulting Member shall be paid to the Non-Defaulting Members
          and shall become additional collateral hereunder.

                    (c) This Agreement shall constitute a security agreement
          under the Uniform Commercial Code. If (and only if) a Member becomes a
          Defaulting Member, the Non-Defaulting Members may exercise any of the
          rights and remedies of a secured party under the Uniform Commercial
          Code with respect to the Units of the Defaulting Member, including the
          right to sell, assign and deliver such Units, or any part thereof, at
          public or private sale. At any such sale, the Non-Defaulting Members
          shall, subject to then applicable law, have the right to purchase the
          Units of the Defaulting Member or any part thereof, and may credit
          against the purchase price therefor all or any part of the amount owed
          to the Non-Defaulting Members by the Defaulting Member. Each Member
          recognizes that if it becomes a Defaulting Member, the Non-Defaulting
          Members may be unable to effect a public sale of all or a part of its
          Units because of certain prohibitions contained in the 33 Act and in
          applicable state securities laws and, therefore, may be compelled to
          resort to one or more private sales to a restricted group of offerees
          and purchasers who fulfill certain suitability standards and agree,
          among other things, to acquire the interest of the Defaulting Member
          for their own account, for investment and not with a view to
          distribution or resale. Each Member agrees that the Non-Defaulting
          Members shall have no obligation to delay the sale of such interest
          for the period of time necessary to permit the offering and sale of
          such interest to be registered for public sale under the 33 Act and
          applicable state securities laws, or to incur the expense of such
          registration. Each Member consents that private sales made under the
          foregoing circumstances shall be deemed to have been made in a
          commercially reasonable manner. Each Member agrees that written notice
          sent to the Defaulting Member ten (10) business days prior to the date
          of public sale of such Units or ten (10) business days prior to the
          date after which private sale or any other disposition of the Units of
          the Defaulting Member will be made shall constitute reasonable notice
          (all other notices, demands, or advertisements of any kind being
          hereby expressly waived), but notice given in any other reasonable
          manner or at any other reasonable time shall be sufficient.

                    (d) The security interests granted and created under this
          Article shall have priority over all security interests granted to
          secure any loans made to such Member (which security interests to a
          lender shall only be made in accordance with and to the extent
          permitted by Article VIII

85

hereof). Any lender making a loan secured by a security interest in
          the collateral described in subsection (a) of this Section and/or in
          the Units of a Member, by its acceptance thereof, acknowledges and
          consents to the superior priority of the security interest granted by
          each Member to the other Members under this Agreement, regardless of
          the date on which the security interest held by such lender is
          perfected under the Uniform Commercial Code.

                    (e) All Members agree that, notwithstanding anything to the
          contrary (including but not limited to any order of recording and/or
          priority of Form UCC-1 financing statements), the security interests
          of all Non-Defaulting Members that are granted and created pursuant to
          this Section shall be equal in priority, and that the security
          interest of one Non-Defaulting Member shall never be deemed to be
          inferior or superior, or subordinated or paramount, to the security
          interest of another Non-Defaulting Member; provided, however, that the
          Members agree that when more than one Non-Defaulting Member is
          entitled to all or any part of any amounts or proceeds arising out of
          or derived from any security interests granted and created under this
          Section 13.4 each Non-Defaulting Member shall share in the amounts and
          proceeds arising out of or derived from such security interests in the
          proportion that its Units bears to the aggregate total of all
          Non-Defaulting Members' Units similarly entitled. The Members agree
          that all Non-Defaulting Members shall, upon a Member's default,
          consult and cooperate with one another prior to taking, and throughout
          the course of, any action relating to the enforcement and/or
          foreclosure of any security interest created pursuant to this Section
          but that such cooperation shall not be deemed to require that a
          Non-Defaulting Member agree with any other Non-Defaulting Member's
          proposed action.

          13.5 OTHER MATTERS RELATING TO RETAINED DEBT.

                    (a) The Company shall cause the Subsidiaries to timely
          comply with all of the obligations of the Subsidiaries under the
          Retained Debt Loan Documents (other than the obligation to pay
          principal, interest and other amounts thereunder).

                    (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
          herein, each Member shall have the right to direct the Company and/or
          the Subsidiaries to amend or modify the Retained Debt Loan Documents
          or take other actions in respect of the Retained Debt of such Member
          (in each case, upon such terms as such Member deems appropriate)
          without the approval of the Board or the other Members, and the
          Company shall comply, and cause the Subsidiaries to comply, with any
          such directions; provided, however, that no Member shall have the
          right to increase the principal amount or extend the term of, or
          otherwise materially increase the obligations of the Company

86

and/or the Subsidiaries in respect of, the Retained Debt of such
          Member without Board approval (other than to extend or replace the
          Retained Debt for an additional three years).

                    (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
          herein, the Company shall not, and shall cause the Subsidiaries not
          to, amend or modify the Retained Debt Loan Documents or take other
          actions in respect of the Retained Debt of any Member, including
          prepayment of the Retained Debt, without the prior written consent of
          the Board and such Member.

                                   ARTICLE XIV
                        ADDITIONAL CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS

          14.1 ADDITIONAL CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS.

                    (a) In the event that the Company officers determine that
          the funds of the Company and/or the Subsidiaries are insufficient at
          any time or from time to time to pay the costs of the construction of
          the Stonebriar Development Project in accordance with the Stonebriar
          Development Plan (or the costs of any other project that has been
          approved by the Board and as to which all Members have agreed to
          require additional Capital Contributions), the Company officers shall
          deliver to the Members a funding notice (each, a "Funding Notice")
          specifying the amount of the funds required at such time (each, a
          "Required Funds Amount") and such Member's Proportionate Share
          thereof. Each Member shall, within fifteen (15) days after a Funding
          Notice is given, pay its Proportionate Share of the applicable
          Required Funds Amount to the Company as an additional Capital
          Contribution. Such additional Capital Contributions shall be made in
          immediately available funds.

                    (b) Each Member waives its right to any setoff or reduction
          with respect to its obligation to make additional Capital
          Contributions based on any claim that such Member has against the
          Company or the other Members.

                    (c) No additional Units shall be issued to any Member on
          account of any additional Capital Contribution made by such Member
          pursuant to this Article XIV, but the Capital Account of such Member
          shall be increased on account of such Capital Contribution.

          14.2 FAILURE TO MAKE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS.

                    (a) If a Member determines that another Member has failed to
          make an additional Capital Contribution required pursuant to this
          Article XIV, such Member shall send a written

87

notice (the "Contribution Default Notice") to such other Member,
          notifying such other Member of its failure to make such additional
          Capital Contribution, the amount of such additional Capital
          Contribution, the date such additional Capital Contribution was due,
          and requesting that such additional Capital Contribution be paid
          immediately.

                    (b) If a Member fails to pay an additional Capital
          Contribution required under this Article XIV within 15 days after
          receiving the Contribution Default Notice then such Member shall be in
          default (the Member in default is referred to as a "Contribution
          Defaulting Member" and the amount that such Contribution Defaulting
          Member failed to contribute is referred to as the "Contribute Default
          Amount") and the Members that are not Contribution Defaulting Members
          (the "Contribution Non-Defaulting Members") may (i) pay (and hereby
          are granted a power of attorney to pay) the Contribution Default
          Amount (which shall be deemed to be a loan by the Contribution
          Non-Defaulting Members to the Contribution Defaulting Members) and/or
          (ii) pursue their other rights and remedies hereunder and, subject to
          the terms hereof, at law or in equity. Any such loan (a "Contribution
          Default Loan") shall bear interest at the per annum rate equal to
          Prime plus 4% and shall be payable on demand.

                                   ARTICLE XV
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

          15.1 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF. Each party hereto acknowledges that it would
be impossible to determine the amount of damages that would result from any
breach of any of the provisions of this Agreement and that the remedy at law for
any breach, or threatened breach, of any of such provisions would likely be
inadequate and, accordingly, agrees that each other party shall, in addition to
any other rights or remedies which it may have hereunder, at law or in equity,
be entitled to seek such equitable and injunctive relief as may be available
from any court of competent jurisdiction to compel specific performance of, or
restrain any party from violating, any of such provisions. In connection with
any action or proceeding for injunctive relief, each party hereto hereby waives
the claim or defense that a remedy at law alone is adequate and agrees, to the
maximum extent permitted by law, to have each provision of this Agreement
specifically enforced against it, without the necessity of posting bond or other
security against it, and consents to the entry of injunctive relief against it
enjoining or restraining any breach or threatened breach of such provisions of
this Agreement.

          15.2 SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS. Subject to the provisions of Article
VIII, all the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon,
shall inure solely to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the parties
hereto and their respective successors and assigns, and no such term or
provision is for the benefit of,

88

or intended to create any obligations to or rights in, any other Person. If any
Member shall acquire additional Units and if any Transferee of any Member shall
acquire any Units, in each case in any manner, whether by a permitted Transfer,
operation of law or otherwise, such Units shall be held subject to all of the
terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Units such Person shall
be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to comply with all of
the terms and provisions of this Agreement.

          15.3 AMENDMENT; WAIVER

                    (a) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be
          changed, waived, discharged or terminated orally, but only by an
          instrument in writing signed by the holders of a majority of the Units
          of each class of Units.

                    (b) No failure by any party to insist upon the strict
          performance of any covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this
          Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy consequent upon breach
          thereof shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of any other
          covenant, duty, agreement or condition, any such waiver being
          effective only if contained in a writing executed by the waiving
          party.

          15.4 REPRESENTATIONS BY MEMBERS.

                    (a) Each Member represents and warrants that (i) it has been
          duly authorized to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement and all
          other instruments executed and delivered on behalf of it in connection
          with the acquisition of its Units, (ii) the consummation of such
          transactions will not result in a breach or violation of, or a default
          under, its charter or by-laws, if such Member is a corporation, or its
          certificate of limited partnership or its partnership agreement, if
          such Member is a partnership, or its other organizational documents,
          if such Member is neither a corporation or partnership, or any
          existing agreement by which it or any of its properties is bound,
          (iii) this Agreement is a binding agreement on the part of such Member
          enforceable in accordance with its terms against such Member, except
          as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency,
          reorganization, liquidation, receivership, moratorium or other similar
          laws relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights
          generally or by general principles of equity, regardless of whether
          such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or law,
          (iv) no consent, waiver, approval or authorization of or notice to any
          other Person (including any governmental authority) is required to be
          made, obtained or given in connection with the execution and delivery
          of this Agreement except for those which have been heretofore obtained
          and (v) neither the execution nor delivery of this Agreement does or
          will violate, conflict with

89

or constitute a default under any term or provision of any judgment,
          decree, order, statute, injunction, rule or regulation of a
          governmental entity applicable to such Member or by which such Member
          or its assets are bound.

                    (b) Each Member, by executing this Agreement, represents and
          warrants that it has acquired its Units for its own account, for
          investment and not with a view to resale or distribution thereof, that
          it has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters
          as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risk of an investment in
          the Units and is able to bear the economic risk of its investment and
          that it is fully aware that the Company and other Members are relying
          upon the truth and accuracy of this representation and warranty. Each
          Member agrees that it will not transfer, sell or dispose of all or any
          portion of, or offer to transfer, sell or dispose of all or any
          portion of its Units, or solicit offers from or otherwise approach or
          negotiate with any person or persons whomsoever regarding the purchase
          of all or any portion of its Units in any manner which could violate
          or cause the Company to violate applicable federal or state securities
          laws.

          15.5 NOTICES. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all
notices, requests, claims, demands, waivers and other communications hereunder
shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered
by hand, when delivered personally or by courier (including nationally
recognized overnight courier), five days after being deposited in the United
States mail, or when received by facsimile transmission if promptly confirmed by
one of the foregoing means, at the address or facsimile transmission number set
forth opposite such Member's name on Schedule I hereto (or, in the case of
Persons who become parties hereto subsequently, at their last addresses or
facsimile transmission numbers shown on the record books of the Company). Each
party hereto, by notice given to each other party hereto in accordance with this
Section 15.5, may change the address or facsimile transmission number to which
such notice or other communications are to be sent to such party.

          15.6 FURTHER ASSURANCES. Each party to this Agreement agrees to
execute, acknowledge, deliver, file and record such further certificates,
amendments, instruments and documents and do all such other acts and things, as
may be required by law or as, in the reasonable judgment of the Company
management or any Member, may be necessary or advisable to carry out the intent
and purpose of this Agreement.

          15.7 CONFIDENTIALITY. The Members agree not to disclose or permit the
disclosure (except by the Company, any Subsidiary or either of them as may be
required in connection with the operation of the business of the Company or any
Subsidiary) of any of the

90

terms of this Agreement or of any information relating to the assets or business
of the Company or any Subsidiary, which the Members hereby acknowledge
constitute non-public information, provided that such disclosure may be made
(but only as and to the extent required) (a) to any person who is a partner,
officer, director or employee of such Member or advisers or counsel to or
accountants of such Member solely for their use and on a need-to-know basis, (b)
with the prior consent of the Board, (c) pursuant to a subpoena or order issued
by a court, arbitrator or governmental body, agency or official, (d) as required
by applicable federal or state laws (including securities and freedom of
information laws), (e) to any lender or prospective lender to, or investor in,
such Member or (f) to any prospective purchaser of Units or any Property.

          In the event that a Member shall receive a request (or, in the case of
NYSCRF, at such time a notice of such request is delivered to the
representatives of NYSCRF who are responsible for the administration of its
ownership of Units) to disclose any of the terms of this Agreement under
subpoena or order, such Member shall (i) promptly notify the Board thereof, (ii)
consult with the Board on the advisability of taking steps to resist or narrow
such request and (iii) if disclosure is required or deemed advisable, cooperate
with the Board in any attempt it may make to obtain an order or other assurance
that confidential treatment will be accorded those terms of this Agreement that
are disclosed.

          15.8 APPLICABLE LAW. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE (WITHOUT REGARD TO ITS
CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES).

          15.9 HEADINGS. The descriptive headings of the several sections in
this Agreement are for convenience only and do not constitute part of this
Agreement and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this
Agreement.

          15.10 ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement (including the Schedules and
Exhibits hereto) constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto and
supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, between the
parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof.

          15.11 SEVERABILITY. Any provision of this Agreement that is
prohibited, unenforceable or not authorized in any jurisdiction shall, as to
such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition,
unenforceability or lack of authorization without invalidating the remaining
provisions hereof or affecting the validity, unenforceability or legality of
such provision in any other jurisdiction.

91

15.12 COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which
together constitute one and the same document.

          15.13 ARBITRATION. Any claim arising out of an alleged breach of this
Agreement and any claim that Cause exists pursuant to Section 7.3(d) and (e)
shall be resolved by arbitration. Such arbitration shall be conducted in
accordance with the following:

                    (a) Each party shall have five (5) business days after
          written notice by another party of the commencement of arbitration
          proceedings hereunder to appoint an arbitrator who is on the approved
          panel of arbitrators of the American Arbitration Association and who
          was not employed by such Member within the previous 5 years. Each
          party shall immediately notify the other party of such appointment.
          The two arbitrators so appointed shall then select a third arbitrator
          within five (5) business days after the appointment of the second
          arbitrator to then constitute the Board of Arbitration. If any party
          shall fail to appoint an arbitrator within such five (5) business day
          period or, if the two arbitrators selected by the parties shall fail
          to make a selection of a third arbitrator within five (5) business
          days of their selection, then the American Arbitration Association
          shall appoint the arbitrator that was not selected by the failing
          party or shall appoint the third arbitrator, as the case may be, in
          accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American
          Arbitration Association. The Board of Arbitration shall then proceed
          under such rules.

                    (b) Following the designation of such Board of Arbitration,
          the parties, together with the members of the Board of Arbitrators,
          shall promptly undertake appropriate informal efforts to mediate and
          negotiate a solution to the matter covered by the original notice.

                    (c) If a negotiated solution cannot be achieved within
          fourteen (14) days after the date on which the Board of Arbitration is
          constituted, then the Board of Arbitration shall notify the parties.
          The proceeding, upon such notification, will then become a compulsory
          arbitration to be conducted under the Commercial Arbitration Rules of
          the American Arbitration Association by the Board of Arbitration.
          These rules shall be subject to the following modifications:

                              (i) discovery shall be permitted under the same
                    standards provided for in the Federal Rules of Civil
                    Procedure;

                              (ii) the members of the Board of Arbitration shall
                    interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement;

92

(iii) the arbitration costs may be charged to the
                    losing party or allocated between the parties as may be
                    determined by the Board of Arbitration; and

                              (iv) the proceedings will be held in Chicago,
                    Illinois, unless the parties shall otherwise agree in
                    writing.

                    (d) In connection with the enforcement of the mediation and
          arbitration provisions of this Section 15.13, any agreement, decision
          or award shall be final and conclusive as to any such claim.

          15.14 CONSENT TO JURISDICTION. In connection with any suit, claim,
action or proceeding relating to the rights and obligations of the parties
arising out of this Agreement: the Members hereby consent to the in personam
jurisdiction of the United States federal courts and state courts located in New
Castle County, Delaware; each such Person agrees that service in the manner set
forth in Section 15.5 hereof shall be valid and sufficient for all purposes; and
each such Person agrees to, and irrevocably waives any objection based on forum
non conveniens or venue not to, appear in any United States federal court or
state court located in New Castle County, Delaware. Each Member hereby
irrevocably appoints the Company as agent for service of process with respect to
any matters relating to the rights and obligations of the parties arising out of
this Agreement.

          15.15 WAIVER OF PARTITION. Each Member hereby irrevocably waives
during the term of the Company any right that it may have to maintain any action
for partition with respect to any Company property.

          15.16 BROKERAGE

                    (a) each Member hereby represents to the other that it has
          dealt with no broker or finder in connection with the execution and
          delivery of this Agreement, the Contribution Agreements, or any other
          agreements executed in connection with any of the foregoing
          (collectively, the "Transaction Documents") or the transactions
          contemplated hereby or thereby.

                    (b) GGPLP shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless NYSCRF
          and the Company from and against any losses, liabilities, damages,
          costs and expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and
          disbursements) resulting from a breach of the foregoing representation
          by GGPLP or any claim that may be made by any broker, finder or other
          Person claiming to have dealt with GGPLP or any of its Affiliates in
          connection with this transaction, for a commission, fee or other
          compensation by reason of this transaction or any of the other
          transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the other Transaction
          Documents.

93

(c) NYSCRF shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless GGPLP
          and the Company from and against any losses, liabilities, damages,
          costs and expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and
          disbursements) resulting from a breach of the foregoing representation
          by NYSCRF or any claim that may be made by any broker, finder or other
          Person claiming to have dealt with NYSCRF or any of its Affiliates in
          connection with this transaction, for a commission, fee or other
          compensation by reason of this transaction or any of the other
          transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the other Transaction
          Documents.

          15.17 COMPANY NAME. If, at any time, the Company name shall include
the name of, or any trade name used by, a Member or any of its Affiliates,
neither the Company nor any other Member shall acquire any right, title or
interest in or to such name or trade name.

          15.18 LITIGATION; NO DISSOLUTION. Subject to the provisions of 7.13
and the other provisions hereof, any Member shall be entitled to maintain, on
its own behalf or on behalf of the Company, any action or proceeding against any
other Member (including any action for damages, specific performance or
declaratory relief) for or by reason of a default by such Member under this
Agreement or any other agreement entered into pursuant to or in connection with
this Agreement, notwithstanding that any or all of the parties to such
proceeding may then be Members in the Company. The Company shall not dissolve by
reason of the bringing of any such action or proceeding.

          15.19 OWNERSHIP OF COMPANY PROPERTY. The interest of each Member in
the Company shall be personal property for all purposes. All real and other
property owned by the Company (or its Subsidiaries) shall be deemed owned by the
Company (or its Subsidiaries) as Company (or its Subsidiaries') property. No
Member, individually, shall have any direct ownership of such property and title
to such property shall be held in the name of the Company (or its Affiliates).

          15.20 TIME OF THE ESSENCE. Except as otherwise expressly provided in
this Agreement (including Section 12.24), time shall be of the essence with
respect to all time periods set forth in this Agreement.

          15.21 STATUS REPORTS. Recognizing that each Member may find it
necessary from time to time to establish to third parties, such as accountants,
banks, mortgagees, prospective transferees of their Units, or the like, the then
current status of certain matters, each Member shall, within ten (10) business
days following the written request of another Member made from time to time,
furnish a written statement on the status of the following:

94

(a) that this Agreement is unmodified and in full force and
          effect (or if there have been modifications, that the Agreement is in
          full force and effect as modified and identifying the documents
          effecting the modifications); and

                    (b) stating whether or not to the best knowledge of such
          certifying Member (i) the other Members in the Company are in default
          in keeping, observing or performing any of the terms contained in this
          Agreement and, if in default, specifying each such default (limited to
          those defaults of which the certifying Member has knowledge), and (ii)
          there has occurred an event that with the passage of time or the
          giving of notice, or both, would ripen into a default hereunder on the
          part of such other Member (limited to those events of which the
          certifying Member has knowledge).

Such statement may be relied upon by such other Member and any other Person for
whom such statement is requested and shall act as a waiver of any claim by the
Member furnishing such certificate to the extent such claim is based upon facts
which are contrary to those asserted in the certificate, but no such statement
shall operate as a waiver as to any default or other matter as to which the
Member executing it did not have actual knowledge. Such certificate shall in no
event subject the Member furnishing it to any liability whatsoever,
notwithstanding the negligence or inadvertent failure of such Member to disclose
correct or relevant information.

          15.22 DISPOSITION OF DOCUMENTS. All documents and records of the
Company, including all Key Documents, financial records, vouchers, canceled
checks, and bank statements shall be delivered to GGPLP upon termination of the
Company if GGPLP is then a Member, and otherwise to NYSCRF. Upon request of any
Member, copies of all such documents and records shall be provided to such
Member at such Member's cost. The Member holding such documents and records
shall retain them for a period of at least six (6) years after the termination
of the Company and shall make such records available to the other Member for
inspection during such period.

          15.23 CALCULATION OF DAYS. The provisions of this Agreement relative
to number of days shall be deemed to refer to calendar days, unless otherwise
specified. When the date for performance of any obligation of any Member falls
on a non-business day, such obligation need not be performed until the next
following business day. For purposes of this Agreement, a "business day" shall
be deemed to mean any day other than Saturday, Sunday, or a day which is in New
York, NY either a legal holiday or a day upon which banking institutions are
authorized by law to remain closed for the entire day.

95

15.24 ATTORNEYS. The Members hereby agree that (a) any attorney which
represented any of the Members in connection with the negotiation and execution
of this Agreement shall not be disqualified from representing the Company and
(b) any such attorney who has represented the Company shall not be disqualified
thereafter from representing a Member in a dispute with another Member.

96

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement as of
the date set forth above.

                                        GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware
                                        limited partnership

                                        By: General Growth Properties, Inc.,
                                            a Delaware corporation,
                                            general partner

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Joel Bayer
                                        Title: Vice President

THE COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
                                        AS TRUSTEE OF THE COMMON RETIREMENT FUND

By: /s/ John E. Hull
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: John E. Hull
                                              ----------------------------------
                                        Title: Deputy Comptroller of Investments
                                               and Cash Management
                                               ---------------------------------

GGP/HOMART II L.L.C., a Delaware limited
                                        liability company

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Joel Bayer
                                        Title: Vice President

97

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.21>
 21
 c02442exv10w21.txt
 AMENDMENT TO THE OPERATING AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 10.21

                        AMENDMENT TO OPERATING AGREEMENT

     Amendment to Operating Agreement, dated November 22, 2002 (the
"Amendment"), among GGP Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership
("GGPLP"), The Comptroller of the State of New York as Trustee of the Common
Retirement Fund, a fund established pursuant to NY Retirement and Social
Security Law Section 422, in the custody of the Comptroller of the State of New
York ("NYSCRF" and, together with GGPLP, the "Members"), and GGP/Homart II
L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (the "Company").

                                    RECITALS:

     WHEREAS, the Members are all of the members of the Company;

     WHEREAS, the Company and the Members have entered into that certain
Operating Agreement dated November 10, 1999, as amended (the "Existing Operating
Agreement"), relating to, among other things, the management of the Company and
the transfer of units of membership interest therein;

     WHEREAS, the Company previously made certain loans to the Members,
including NYSCRF (such loans that have been made to NYSCRF, the "NYSCRF Existing
Loans");

     WHEREAS, Glendale I Mall Associates, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company ("Glendale LLC"), and certain subsidiaries of Glendale LLC (such
subsidiaries, together with Glendale I, the "Glendale Owners") are the owners of
the shopping center and office building located in Glendale, California and
commonly known as Glendale Galleria (the "Glendale Property");

     WHEREAS, JSG, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("JSG"), owns a
17.2977% membership interest in Glendale LLC (the "JSG Membership Interest"),
Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, a Connecticut corporation
("Connecticut"), owns a 43.1737% membership interest in Glendale LLC (the
"Connecticut Membership Interest") and New York State Teachers' Retirement
System, a public pension system created and existing pursuant to Article 11 of
the Education Law of the State of New York and having the powers and privileges
of a corporation pursuant to Section 502 thereof ("NYSTRS" and, together with
Connecticut, the "Selling Members"), owns a 39.5286% membership interest in
Glendale LLC (the "NYSTRS Membership Interest" and, together with the
Connecticut Membership Interest and the JSG Membership Interest, the "Membership
Interests");

     WHEREAS, the Glendale Owners previously obtained a mortgage loan in the
original principal amount of $170,000,000 from German American Capital
Corporation (the "Existing Mortgage Loan");

WHEREAS, GGPLP, JSG and the Selling Members entered into that certain
Contribution and Sale Agreement dated October 18, 2002 (as the same may be
amended from time to time, the "Contribution and Sale Agreement"), pursuant to
which GGPLP agreed to (a) acquire the JSG Membership Interest in exchange for
the issuance of Series C Preferred Units of limited partnership in GGPLP (the
"Series C Preferred Units"), (b) purchase the Membership Interests of the
Selling Members for the cash consideration specified therein and (c) repay the
Existing Mortgage Loan in full;

     WHEREAS, pursuant to the Contribution and Sale Agreement, GGPLP and JSG
agreed to, at the closing of the transactions contemplated thereby (the
"Closing"), enter into a Pledge Agreement substantially in the form attached
thereto (the "JSG Pledge Agreement") and certain documents relating to the
issuance of the Series C Preferred Units as described in Section 1.2 thereof
(collectively, the "Series C Preferred Units Documents"), including without
limitation a Tax Matters Agreement substantially in the form attached thereto
(the "Tax Matters Agreement");

     WHEREAS, the parties hereto intend that the cash purchase price to be paid
pursuant to the Contribution and Sale Agreement and the repayment of the
Existing Mortgage Loan be funded from the proceeds of a new mortgage loan on the
Glendale Property (the "New Mortgage Loan") and certain other financing (but any
such financing shall require the approval of the Board of Directors of the
Company as provided in the Existing Operating Agreement);

     WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire that (a) GGPLP contribute to the capital
of the Company (i) all of the right, title and interest of GGPLP under the
Contribution and Sale Agreement that relates to the acquisition of the
Membership Interests of the Selling Members and (ii) following the acquisition
of the JSG Membership Interest pursuant to the Contribution and Sale Agreement,
all of the right, title and interest of GGPLP in and to the JSG Membership
Interest and that (b) NYSCRF make an additional capital contribution to the
Company in an amount equal to the aggregate base liquidation preference of the
Series C Preferred Units issued by GGPLP pursuant to the Contribution and Sale
Agreement (which is estimated to be approximately $42.4 million) as provided
herein; and

     WHEREAS, the parties desire that the Company amend the Existing Operating
Agreement as hereinafter set forth to reflect their understandings regarding the
foregoing.

     NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties do hereby
agree as follows:

     1. Definitions. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have
the meanings set forth in the Existing Operating Agreement.

2

2. Additional Capital Contributions.

     (a) Additional Capital Contributions by GGPLP.

          (i) Concurrently herewith, GGPLP shall contribute to the capital of
     the Company all of the right, title and interest of GGPLP under the
     Contribution and Sale Agreement that relates to the acquisition of the
     Membership Interests of the Selling Members, and the Company shall assume
     all of the obligations of GGPLP under the Contribution and Sale Agreement
     that relate to the acquisition of the Membership Interests of the Selling
     Members (including without limitation the obligation to pay the entire
     earnest money deposit due thereunder), pursuant to an Assignment and
     Assumption Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit
     A. The Company may further assign the right to acquire all or a portion of
     such Membership Interests to one or more wholly-owned Subsidiaries
     (including GGP-Natick Trust, which is treated as wholly-owned), and, upon
     any assignment to any such Subsidiary of the right to acquire all or a
     portion of such Membership Interests, such Subsidiary shall assume the
     liabilities of the Company under the Contribution and Sale Agreement that
     relate thereto. In addition, the parties acknowledge that Glendale LLC may
     make a distribution of a portion of the proceeds of the New Mortgage Loan
     at Closing, and GGPLP (as the holder of the JSG Membership Interest) hereby
     directs that its share of any such distribution be paid to the Company (and
     GGPLP shall be deemed to have made a capital contribution to the Company of
     such amount).

          (ii) Immediately following the Closing, GGPLP shall contribute to the
     capital of the Company all of the right, title and interest of GGPLP in and
     to the JSG Membership Interest pursuant to an Assignment of Membership
     Interest in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B (the
     capital contribution described in this paragraph, the "JSG Membership
     Interest Contribution"). Except as provided in Sections 2(a)(iv) and 5
     hereof, (A) GGPLP shall retain all of the right, title and interest of
     GGPLP under the Contribution and Sale Agreement that relates to the
     acquisition of the JSG Membership Interest and all right, title and
     interest of GGPLP under the Series C Preferred Units Documents and the JSG
     Pledge Agreement and (B) the Company is not assuming and shall not be
     required to assume any obligations of GGPLP under the Contribution and Sale
     Agreement that relate to the acquisition of the JSG Membership Interest or
     any obligations of GGPLP under the JSG Pledge Agreement or the Series C
     Preferred Units Documents.

          (iii) No additional Units shall be issued to GGPLP on account of the
     Capital Contributions referred to in this Section 2. Subject to adjustment
     in accordance with Section 2(a)(iv) hereof, the Capital Account of GGPLP
     shall be increased on account of the Capital Contributions referred to in
     Sections 2(a)(i) and (ii) hereof by an amount equal to the

3

aggregate base liquidation preference of the Series C Preferred Units
     issued by GGPLP pursuant to the Contribution and Sale Agreement.

          (iv) Upon receipt by GGPLP of any cash amount from JSG under the
     Contribution and Sale Agreement or the JSG Pledge Agreement following
     Closing (other than any amount arising from a Series C Preferred Units
     Matter, as defined below), GGPLP promptly shall pay such amount to the
     Company (and such payment shall not increase the Capital Account of GGPLP).
     Upon the surrender by JSG from time to time of any Series C Preferred Units
     in satisfaction of any amount owing by JSG to GGPLP pursuant to the
     Contribution and Sale Agreement or the JSG Pledge Agreement (other than any
     amount arising from a Series C Preferred Units Matter), the Capital Account
     of GGPLP shall be reduced by an amount equal to the aggregate base
     liquidation preference of such Series C Preferred Units. In the event that
     GGPLP is required to pay any amount pursuant to the Contribution and Sale
     Agreement following Closing (other than any amount arising from a Series C
     Preferred Units Matter), the Company promptly shall reimburse GGPLP
     therefor (and the Capital Account of GGPLP shall not be reduced on account
     thereof). For purposes hereof, a "Series C Preferred Units Matter" shall
     mean (A) any right or obligation under the Contribution and Sale Agreement
     that arises solely because the consideration for the JSG Membership
     Interest consists of Series C Preferred Units rather than cash and (B) any
     right or obligation under the Series C Preferred Units Documents.

          (v) GGPLP promptly shall provide to NYSCRF such documents and
     information as NYSCRF shall reasonably request in order to verify the
     amount of the aggregate base liquidation preference referred to above and
     any adjustments thereto.

     (b) Additional Capital Contribution by NYSCRF.

          (i) Subject to the occurrence of the Closing, NYSCRF shall contribute
     to the capital of the Company cash in an amount equal to the aggregate base
     liquidation preference of the Series C Preferred Units issued by GGPLP
     pursuant to the Contribution and Sale Agreement (the "NYSCRF Contribution
     Amount"), together with interest on the outstanding balance thereof at a
     rate per annum equal to 7% (compounded quarterly), on or before the
     earliest to occur of (A) the dissolution of the Company, (B) the sale of
     all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and/or its
     Subsidiaries and (C) the Transfer by NYSCRF of all or any part of its Units
     to GGPLP (or any assignee thereof), the Company or any other Person (and
     the payment of the unpaid NYSCRF Contribution Amount and all accrued and
     unpaid interest thereon shall be a condition to any such Transfer). In
     addition, NYSCRF shall pay accrued and unpaid interest on the NYSCRF
     Contribution Amount to the extent of any distributions paid to NYSCRF by
     the Company (other than distributions

4

that are applied to the payment of the NYSCRF Existing Loans), and, if
     directed by NYSCRF in writing, the Company shall withhold such
     distributions and apply them to the payment of the principal amount of the
     NYSCRF Contribution Amount and/or accrued and unpaid interest thereon.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the NYSCRF Contribution Amount shall be
     reduced by the amount of any reduction in the Capital Account of GGPLP
     pursuant to Section 2(a)(iv) hereof.

          (ii) Payments with respect to this Section 2(b) shall be applied first
     against accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and then against principal.

          (iii) NYSCRF may, at any time and from time to time and without
     premium or penalty, prepay all or a portion of the NYSCRF Contribution
     Amount.

          (iv) NYSCRF waives its right to any setoff or reduction with respect
     to its obligation to pay the amounts to be paid by it under this Section
     2(b) based on any claim that NYSCRF has against the Company or the other
     Members.

          (v) No additional Units shall be issued to NYSCRF on account of the
     payment of any amount pursuant to this Section 2(b). The Capital Account of
     NYSCRF shall be increased by the amount of each payment (other than
     interest) made pursuant to this Section 2(b).

          (vi) To secure payment of the obligations of NYSCRF described in this
     Section 2(b) (collectively, the "NYSCRF Contribution Obligations"), NYSCRF
     hereby grants to GGPLP a security interest in the Units owned by NYSCRF on
     the date hereof, any Units hereafter acquired by NYSCRF, any and all rights
     of NYSCRF in respect of such Units, any distributions of cash or property
     in respect of the such Units and any and all other proceeds of any of the
     foregoing (such Units and other collateral, collectively, the
     "Collateral"). The terms of Section 13.4 of the Existing Operating
     Agreement shall apply to the security interest granted herein, and, in the
     event that NYSCRF fails to pay any amount owing in respect of the NYSCRF
     Contribution Obligations, NYSCRF shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Member
     and GGPLP (or its assignee) shall be deemed to be a Non-Defaulting Member
     for purposes of such section and the other provisions of the Existing
     Operating Agreement.

          (vii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
     NYSCRF shall have no personal liability for the performance of the NYSCRF
     Contribution Obligations, all such personal liability being waived by the
     parties hereto and recourse in respect of the NYSCRF Contribution
     Obligations being limited to the Collateral. The foregoing limitations on
     personal liability shall in no way impair or constitute a waiver of the
     validity of the NYSCRF Contribution Obligations, or the Liens created in
     favor of

5

GGPLP pursuant hereto, or the right of GGPLP or its agent to foreclose
     and/or enforce GGPLP's rights with respect to the Collateral. Nothing
     herein shall be deemed to be a waiver of any right which GGPLP may have
     under the United States Bankruptcy Code to file a claim for the full amount
     of the NYSCRF Contribution Obligations or to require that all Collateral
     shall continue to secure all NYSCRF Contribution Obligations. The
     provisions set forth in this paragraph are not intended as a release or
     discharge of the NYSCRF Contribution Obligations, but are intended as a
     limitation, to the extent expressly provided in this paragraph, on GGPLP's
     right to sue for a deficiency or seek a personal judgment against NYSCRF
     with respect to the NYSCRF Contribution Obligations.

     3. Confirmation Relating to Certain Definitions. The parties hereto confirm
that, from and after the Closing, (a) the Glendale Property shall be a Company
Asset and a Property and (b) Glendale LLC and its subsidiaries shall be
Subsidiaries.

     4. Amendment to Exhibit E of the Existing Operating Agreement. The trade
area maps in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C are hereby added to Exhibit E
of the Existing Operating Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in the Existing Operating Agreement, as amended hereby, GGPLP and/or
its Affiliates are permitted to provide property management, leasing and/or
development services for the property or properties listed on Exhibit D,
attached hereto and by this reference made a part hereof.

     5. Other Matters Relating to Glendale Property.

          (a) The Company shall reimburse GGPLP for the costs and expenses
     incurred by GGPLP in connection with the transactions contemplated by the
     Contribution and Sale Agreement and the financing thereof, including
     without limitation the costs and expenses incurred in connection with the
     acquisition of the JSG Membership Interest and the issuance of the Series C
     Preferred Units.

          (b) Following and subject to the occurrence of the JSG Membership
     Interest Contribution, the Company shall (i) except as required to
     consummate any Exit Transaction (as defined below), perform the obligations
     of GGPLP contained in Section 2 of the Tax Matters Agreement to the extent
     that they pertain to the Company or any Subsidiary, (ii) reimburse GGPLP
     for any amount that is owing pursuant to Section 2 or 3 of the Tax Matters
     Agreement on account of any breach of such Section 2 that is caused by the
     Company or any Subsidiary thereof (other than a breach that directly
     results from the consummation of any Exit Transaction), (iii) perform the
     obligations of GGPLP contained in Section 4 of the Tax Matters Agreement to
     the extent that they pertain to the Company or any Subsidiary thereof, (iv)
     unless the Company or any Subsidiary ceases to own the Glendale Property as
     the result of any Exit Transaction or GGPLP ceases to own a direct or
     indirect interest in the Company, maintain (or, to the extent applicable,
     cause its Subsidiaries to maintain) Qualified Non-Recourse Debt (as defined
     in the Tax Matters

6

Agreement) to the extent that the same is required to be maintained by
     GGPLP pursuant to Section 5 of the Tax Matters Agreement, (v) cooperate
     with GGPLP in offering Guarantee Opportunities (as defined in the Tax
     Matters Agreement) pursuant to Sections 5 and 6 of the Tax Matters
     Agreement (including without limitation by means of offering Guarantee
     Opportunities with respect to debt of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries
     to the extent that the Company and/or its Subsidiaries have debt available
     to be guaranteed that satisfies the requirements of such Sections 5 and 6),
     and (vi) reimburse GGPLP for any amount that is owing pursuant to Section 5
     or 6 of the Tax Matters Agreement on account of a failure by the Company or
     any Subsidiary thereof to comply with clause (iii), (iv) or (v) of this
     Section 5(b). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
     Existing Operating Agreement or this Amendment, (x) the Value of a
     Property, the Dissolution Value of the Company and the Dissolution Value of
     a Property shall be determined without regard to the obligations contained
     in clauses (i) and (ii) of this paragraph, (y) the Class B Members shall
     reimburse GGPLP for an amount equal to the product of (1) the payments
     actually made by GGPLP pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement as a direct
     result of the consummation of any Specified Exit Transaction multiplied by
     (2) a fraction, the numerator of which is the total number of Units owned
     by the Class B Members immediately prior to the consummation of such
     Specified Exit Transaction and the denominator of which is the total number
     of Units owned by all Members immediately prior to the consummation of such
     Specified Exit Transaction and (z) all or any part of the Class B Units to
     be acquired by GGPLP in any Exit Transaction may be acquired by a designee
     of GGPLP. As used herein, an "Exit Transaction" shall mean any transaction
     contemplated by Article IX, X or XI of the Existing Operating Agreement and
     a "Specified Exit Transaction" shall mean any Exit Transaction described in
     Section 9.7 of the Existing Operating Agreement, the purchase of the Units
     of GGPLP in an Exit Transaction described in Article X of the Existing
     Operating Agreement or any Exit Transaction described in Section 11.7 of
     the Existing Operating Agreement.

          (c) The Company shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless GGPLP from
     and against any and all losses, claims, damages, debts, liabilities, costs
     and expenses (including without limitation reasonable attorneys' fees),
     whether known or unknown, liquidated or unliquidated, fixed or contingent
     or direct or indirect and whether based on contract, tort, statute or other
     legal theory of recovery ("Claims"), which relate to or arise out of the
     Contribution and Sale Agreement or the transactions contemplated thereby;
     provided, however, that the indemnity contained in this paragraph shall not
     apply to a Claim to the extent that it arises out of (i) the gross
     negligence or intentional misconduct of GGPLP, (ii) any action or omission
     of GGPLP or the General Growth Officers in connection with the management
     of the Company (for which indemnity is provided, if at all, by Section 7.13
     of the Existing Operating Agreement and Section 10 of Schedule II, Part 2,
     of the Existing Operating Agreement) or (iii) any Series C Preferred Units
     Matter.

7

(d) The pro forma for the Glendale Property operations that was
     previously delivered to the Members be, and it hereby is, approved as the
     Annual Business Plan for the Glendale Property for the remainder of 2002
     (and no further approval thereof by the Board shall be required).

          (e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Existing
     Operating Agreement, as amended hereby, (i) the Company shall engage a
     leasing agent (other than GGPLP or an Affiliate thereof) selected by the
     General Growth Officers (and, if other than Grubb & Ellis, approved by the
     Class B Directors, whose approval may not be unreasonably withheld) to
     provide leasing services for the office building portion of the Glendale
     Property upon such terms as the General Growth Officers deem to be
     appropriate, (ii) the Company shall pay the fees and other compensation
     thereof (but the fees and other compensation must be consistent with the
     applicable Annual Business Plan or otherwise be permitted under Section
     7.7(c) or Section 7.7(d)(iv) of the Existing Operating Agreement) and (iii)
     GGPLP and its Affiliates shall not be required to provide such services or
     be entitled to receive any fees pursuant to Section 2 of Schedule IV to the
     Existing Operating Agreement on account thereof.

     6. Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, each of
which shall constitute an original and all which together shall constitute the
same agreement.

     7. Captions. The article and section headings appearing in this Amendment
are for convenience of reference only and are not intended, to any extent and
for any purpose, to limit or define the text of any section or any subsection
hereof.

     8. Full Force and Effect; Etc. Except as expressly set forth herein, this
Amendment does not constitute a waiver or modification of any provision of the
Existing Operating Agreement. Except as expressly amended hereby, the Existing
Operating Agreement shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with
the provisions thereof on the date hereof. As used in the Existing Operating
Agreement (including without limitation the Exhibits and Schedules thereto), the
terms "the Agreement," "herein," "hereof," "hereinafter," "hereto" and words of
similar import, shall, unless the context otherwise requires, mean the Existing
Operating Agreement, as amended by this Amendment.

8

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Amendment on
the date first written above.

                                        GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware
                                        limited partnership

                                        By: General Growth Properties, Inc.,
                                            a Delaware corporation, its general
                                            partner

By: /s/ Bernard Freibaum
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Bernard Freibaum, Executive Vice
                                            President

THE COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
                                        AS TRUSTEE OF THE COMMON RETIREMENT FUND

By: /s/ Bruce E. Feig
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Bruce E. Feig
                                        Title: First Deputy Comptroller

GGP/HOMART II L.L.C., a Delaware limited
                                        liability company

By: /s/ Bernard Freibaum
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Bernard Freibaum, Executive Vice
                                            President

9

</EX-10.21>

<EX-10.22>
 22
 c02442exv10w22.txt
 LETTER AMENDMENT TO THE OPERATING AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 10.22

                             GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
                             110 North Wacker Drive
                             Chicago, Illinois 60606

                                January 31, 2003

Comptroller of the State of New York
as Trustee of the Common Retirement Fund
633 Third Avenue
31st Floor
New York, NY 10017-6754

Ladies and Gentlemen:

     Reference is made to (a) that certain Operating Agreement dated as of
November 10, 1999, among GGP/Homart II L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability
company (the "Company"), The Comptroller of the State of New York as Trustee of
the Common Retirement Fund, a fund established pursuant to NY Retirement and
Social Security Law Section 422, in the custody of the Comptroller of the State
of New York ("NYSCRF"), and GGP Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited
partnership ("GGPLP" and, together with NYSCRF, the "Members"), as amended (the
"Operating Agreement"), and (b) that certain Unanimous Written Consent of the
Board of Directors relating to the acquisition of First Colony Mall in Sugar
Land, Texas and certain related property (the "First Colony Property").
Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meaning set
forth in the Operating Agreement.

     1. Matters Relating to Trade Area for First Colony Property. The trade area
map for the First Colony Property in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A is
hereby added to Exhibit E of the Operating Agreement.

     2. Matters Relating to Annual Business Plan for First Colony Property.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Operating Agreement,
the General Growth Officers shall submit a proposed 2003 budget for the First
Colony Property on or before the later of March 31, 2003 and the sixtieth day
following the closing of the acquisition thereof (instead of the earlier date,
if any, specified in the Operating Agreement). Until the budget for the First
Colony Property is approved by the Board, the General Growth Officers shall
operate the First Colony Property in accordance with the provisions of the
Operating Agreement that are applicable when there is no approved Annual
Business Plan for a Property. Once approved by the Board, such budget shall be
deemed to be the 2003 Annual Business Plan for the First Colony Property.

Comptroller of the State of
New York as Trustee
of the Common Retirement Fund
January 31, 2003
Page 2

3. Matters Relating to Annual Business Plan for Glendale Property.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Operating Agreement,
the General Growth Officers shall submit a proposed 2003 budget for the Glendale
Property on or before March 31, 2003 (instead of the earlier date, if any,
specified in the Operating Agreement). Until the budget for the Glendale
Property is approved by the Board, the General Growth Officers shall operate the
Glendale Property in accordance with the provisions of the Operating Agreement
that are applicable when there is no approved Annual Business Plan for a
Property. Once approved by the Board, such budget shall be deemed to be the 2003
Annual Business Plan for the Glendale Property.

     Except as expressly provided herein, the Operating Agreement shall remain
in full force and effect.

     Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by signing and returning
the enclosed counterpart of this letter to the undersigned.

                                        Very truly yours,

                                        GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
                                        a Delaware limited partnership

                                        By: General Growth Properties, Inc.,
                                            a Delaware corporation,
                                            its general partner

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Joel Bayer
                                        Title: Senior Vice President

ACCEPTED AND AGREED TO AS OF THE
DATE ABOVE WRITTEN:

ALAN G. HEVESI, COMPTROLLER OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK,
as trustee of the Common Retirement
Fund

By: /s/ Jacques Jiha
    ---------------------------------
Name: Jacques Jiha
Title: Deputy Comptroller for Pension
       Investment and Public Finance

Comptroller of the State of
New York as Trustee
of the Common Retirement Fund
January 31, 2003
Page 3

GGP/HOMART II L.L.C,
a Delaware limited liability company

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
    ---------------------------------
Name: Joel Bayer
Title: Senior Vice President

</EX-10.22>

<EX-10.23>
 23
 c02442exv10w23.txt
 AMENDMENT TO THE OPERATING AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 10.23

                     SECOND AMENDMENT TO OPERATING AGREEMENT
                             OF GGP/HOMART II L.L.C.

     Second Amendment to Operating Agreement, dated January 31, 2003 (the
"Amendment"), among GGP Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership
("GGPLP"), The Comptroller of the State of New York as Trustee of the Common
Retirement Fund, a fund established pursuant to NY Retirement and Social
Security Law Section 422, in the custody of the Comptroller of the State of New
York ("NYSCRF" and, together with GGPLP, the "Members"), and GGP/Homart II
L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (the "Company").

                                    RECITALS

     WHEREAS, the Members are all of the members of the Company;

     WHEREAS, the Company and the Members entered into that certain Operating
Agreement dated November 10, 1999, as amended (the "Existing Operating
Agreement"), relating to, among other things, the management of the Company and
the transfer of units of membership interest therein; and

     WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Existing Operating
Agreement as set forth herein.

     NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties do hereby
agree as follows:

     1. Definitions. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have
the meanings set forth in the Existing Operating Agreement.

     2. Amendment to Section 7.2(a). Section 7.2(a) of the Existing Operating
Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following is hereby inserted
in lieu thereof:

               "7.2. Board.

                    (a) Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, the
               Board of Directors of the Company shall consist of four (4)
               members, and the holders of Class A Units (by majority vote)
               shall have the right from time to time at their election to
               designate two (2) members to the Board (the "Class A Board
               Members"), and the holders of Class B Units (by majority vote)
               shall have the right from time to time at their election to
               designate two (2) members to the Board (the "Class B Board

Members" and, together with the Class A Board Members, the "Board
               Members")."

     3. Amendment to Section 7.7(a). Section 7.7(a) of the Existing Operating
Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and the following is hereby inserted
in lieu thereof:

               "7.7 Actions by the Board.

                    (a) Actions by Directors. Except as otherwise provided
               herein, at such times as both Class A Units and Class B Units
               shall be outstanding, at all meetings of the Board a quorum shall
               exist for the transaction of business if at least one (1) Class A
               Board Member and one (1) Class B Board Member are present. At
               such times as both Class A Units and Class B Units shall be
               outstanding, at all meetings of any committee of the Board a
               quorum shall exist for the transaction of business if at least
               one member designated by the Class A Board Members and one member
               designated by the Class B Board Members are present, unless the
               Board shall determine otherwise. At all other times (i.e., when
               the Board is constituted pursuant to Section 8.4(c)), a quorum
               shall exist for the transaction of business if at least a
               majority of Board or committee members are present. Actions of
               the Board or any committee thereof may be taken at meetings or by
               written consent, and any written consent shall be filed with the
               minutes of proceedings of the Board or the appropriate committee
               thereof. Attendance at any meeting may be by conference telephone
               or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons
               participating in the meeting can hear each other. In case at any
               meeting of the Board or a committee thereof a quorum shall not be
               present, the members of the Board or such committee present may
               adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be
               present."

     4. Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, each of
which shall constitute an original and all which together shall constitute the
same agreement.

     5. Captions. The article and section headings appearing in this Amendment
are for convenience of reference only and are not intended, to any extent and
for any purpose, to limit or define the text of any section or any subsection
hereof.

     6. Full Force and Effect; Etc. Except as expressly set forth herein, this
Amendment does not constitute a waiver or modification of any provision of the
Existing Operating Agreement. Except as expressly amended hereby, the Existing
Operating

2

Agreement shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the
provisions thereof on the date hereof. As used in the Existing Operating
Agreement (including without limitation the Exhibits and Schedules thereto), the
terms "the Agreement," "herein," "hereof," "hereinafter," "hereto" and words of
similar import, shall, unless the context otherwise requires, mean the Existing
Operating Agreement, as amended by this Amendment. Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary contained in the Existing Operating Agreement, the matters
contained herein shall not require Board approval.

                  [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Amendment on
the date first written above.

                                        GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware
                                        limited partnership

                                        By: General Growth Properties, Inc., a
                                            Delaware corporation, its general
                                            partner

By: /s/ Robert A. Michaels
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Robert A. Michaels
                                        Title: President

COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, as
                                        trustee of the Common Retirement Fund

By: /s/ Jacques Jiha
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Jacques Jiha
                                        Title: Deputy Comptroller for
                                               Investments and Cash Management

GGP/HOMART II L.L.C., a Delaware limited
                                        liability company

By: /s/ Robert A. Michaels
                                            ------------------------------------
                                        Name: Robert A. Michaels
                                        Title: President

4

</EX-10.23>

<EX-10.24>
 24
 c02442exv10w24.txt
 AMENDED AND RESTATED OPERATING AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 10.24

                              AMENDED AND RESTATED
                               OPERATING AGREEMENT

                                       OF

                                 GGP-TRS L.L.C.

                             Dated: August 26, 2002

TABLE OF CONTENTS

-i-

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                   (continued)

-ii-

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                   (continued)

-iii-

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                   (continued)

-iv-

AMENDED AND RESTATED

                               OPERATING AGREEMENT

                                       OF

                                 GGP-TRS L.L.C.

     Amended and Restated Operating Agreement, dated August 26, 2002, between
GGP Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership ("GGPLP"), Teachers'
Retirement System of the State of Illinois ("TRS" and, together with GGPLP, the
"Members"), and GGP-TRS L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (the
"Company").

                                   WITNESSETH:

     A. The Company exists pursuant to that certain Operating Agreement dated as
of July 25, 2002 (the "Existing Operating Agreement"), made by GGPLP, and the
Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, as amended (the "Act").

     B. GGPLP is the sole member of the Company.

     C. GGPLP, TRS and the Company have entered into that certain Formation
Agreement dated August 26, 2002 (the "Formation Agreement"), pursuant to which
they set forth, among other things, the terms and conditions upon which TRS
would be admitted as a member of the Company and the Members would make certain
capital contributions to the Company on the date hereof.

     D. Pursuant to the Formation Agreement and in order to effect such
admission, reflect such capital contributions and set forth their other
understandings regarding the Company, the parties agreed to amend and restate
the Existing Operating Agreement as provided herein.

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements
herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt,
adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto,
intending to be legally bound, hereby amend and restate the Existing Operating
Agreement to read in its entirety as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I

                                  DEFINED TERMS

     1.1 DEFINITIONS. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have
the respective meanings indicated below:

     "Act" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.

     "Acquisition Costs" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.2(e).

     "Acquisition Financing" shall have the meaning set forth in the Formation
Agreement.

"Acquisition Transactions" shall mean the Acquisition Financing (and the
exercise of the extension options in connection therewith) and the transactions
contemplated by the Purchase Agreements and the Contribution Agreement.

     "Adjusted Capital Account Deficit" shall mean, with respect to any Member,
the deficit balance, if any, in such Member's Capital Account as of the end of
any relevant Allocation Year, after giving effect to the following adjustments:

          (a) credit to such Capital Account any amounts which such Member is
     obligated or treated as obligated to restore with respect to any deficit
     balance in such Capital Account pursuant to Regulations Section
     1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(c), or is deemed to be obligated to restore with respect
     to any deficit balance pursuant to the penultimate sentences of Regulations
     Section 1.704-2(g)(1) and 1.704-2(i)(5); and

          (b) debit to such Capital Account the items described in Regulations
     Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5) and (6).

The foregoing definition of Adjusted Capital Account Deficit is intended to
comply with the requirements of the alternate test for economic effect contained
in Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) and shall be interpreted
consistently therewith.

     "Affected Gain" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.6(b).

     "Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any Person, an affiliate of such
Person as determined under the Securities Laws; provided, however, that the
Affiliate of a Member shall not include the other Member, the Company or any
Subsidiary.

     "Agreement" shall mean this Amended and Restated Operating Agreement, as
originally executed and as amended, modified, supplemented or restated from time
to time, as the context requires.

     "Allocation Year" shall mean (a) the period commencing on the date hereof
and ending on December 31, 2002, (b) any subsequent twelve (12) month period
commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31 or (c) any portion of the
period described in clause (a) or (b) for which the Company is required to
allocate Net Income, Net Loss and other items of Company income, gain, loss or
deduction pursuant to Article IV hereof.

     "AMG" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.

     "Annual Audit" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.3(b).

     "Annual Business Plan" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.3.

     "Antitrust Division" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(e).

     "Auditors" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.

     "Bankruptcy Event" shall mean, with respect to a Member or other Person,
the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) the making by it of an
assignment for the benefit

-2-

of its creditors, (b) the filing by it of a voluntary petition in bankruptcy,
(c) an adjudication that it is bankrupt or insolvent unless such adjudication is
stayed or dismissed within 60 days, or the entry against it of an order for
relief or similar order in any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, (d) the
filing by it of a petition or an answer seeking for itself any reorganization,
arrangement, composition, readjustment, liquidation, dissolution or similar
relief under any statute, law or regulation, (e) the filing by it of an answer
or other pleading admitting or failing to contest the material allegations of a
petition filed against it in any proceeding seeking reorganization, arrangement,
composition, readjustment, liquidation, dissolution or similar relief under any
statute, law or regulation, (f) its seeking, consenting to or acquiescing in the
appointment of a trustee, receiver or liquidator for it or for all or any
substantial part of its properties, or (g) 120 days after the commencement of
any proceeding against it seeking reorganization, arrangement, composition,
readjustment, liquidation, dissolution or similar relief under any statute, law
or regulation, if the proceeding has not been stayed or dismissed.

     "Benefit Plan Investor" shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan Asset
Regulations.

     "Board" or "Board of Directors" shall mean the Board of Directors of the
Company in office at the applicable time, as designated in accordance with the
provisions hereof.

     "Business" shall mean the acquisition, ownership, leasing, operation,
management, redevelopment, expansion, financing and sale of, and otherwise
dealing with, the Properties.

     "Buy-Sell Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.

     "Buy-Sell Response Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
9.2(b).

     "Buy-Sell Right" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.

     "Capital Account(s)" shall mean, with respect to any Member, the separate
"book" account which the Company shall establish and maintain for such Member in
accordance with Section 704(b) of the Code and Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv) of the
Regulations and such other provisions of Section 1.704-1(b) of the Regulations
that must be complied with in order for the Capital Accounts to be determined in
accordance with the provisions of said Regulations. In furtherance of the
foregoing, the Capital Accounts shall be maintained in compliance with Section
1.704-1(b)(2)(iv) of the Regulations, and the provisions hereof shall be
interpreted and applied in a manner consistent therewith.

     "Capital Contribution" shall mean, with respect to any Member, the amount
of money and the initial Gross Asset Value of any property other than money
contributed to the Company (net of liabilities that are assumed by the Company
or to which such property is subject). The initial Gross Asset Value of the
Property being contributed to the Company pursuant to the Contribution Agreement
is equal to the "Contribution Amount" set forth and defined in the Contribution
Agreement.

     "Cause" shall mean (a) the failure of the Managing Member to submit an
Annual Business Plan to the Board as provided in Section 6.3 and Schedule 7.1-1,
(b) the failure of the Managing Member to obtain prior Board approval (as part
of an approved Annual Business Plan or otherwise) for any of the matters
enumerated in Section 6.2(e) to the extent required by this Agreement, (c) the
engaging by the Managing Member in gross negligence which is

-3-

demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company or willful misconduct,
including fraud, embezzlement or theft, and (d) the repeated failure by the
Managing Member to perform (or cause its Affiliates to perform) the obligations
to be performed by it or them hereunder in respect of the management of the
Company or the services described in Article VII if such failure has a
demonstrably and materially injurious effect on the Company; provided, however,
that Cause shall not exist or be deemed to exist except as provided in the
immediately succeeding paragraph. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained herein, neither a determination of Cause nor the occurrence of any
other event shall (x) give rise to a right on the part of TRS or the Company (or
any successor or assign of either) to remove GGPLP (or any successor or assign)
as the Managing Member or terminate the right of GGPLP (or any successor or
assign) to exercise the powers and rights of the Managing Member or provide
services and receive fees in accordance with Section 7.1 (except as provided in
the third sentence of Section 7.1) or (y) otherwise result in any such removal
or termination. Nothing contained in this paragraph (except for the provisions
of the immediately preceding sentence) or the immediately succeeding paragraph
shall constitute a waiver of any right or remedy that TRS may have on account of
the conduct of GGPLP (or any successor or assign) described in this paragraph,
and TRS may, subject to the provisions of the immediately preceding sentence and
the other provisions of this Agreement, pursue any rights and remedies that may
be available to it at law or equity on account thereof.

     If TRS believes that an event giving rise to Cause has occurred, TRS shall
deliver a written notice (the "Cause Notice") to the Managing Member setting
forth with particularity the event giving rise to Cause and the applicable
clause of the first paragraph of this definition. Except where the event giving
rise to Cause constitutes willful misconduct, the Managing Member shall have
fifteen (15) days from the date of the delivery of such notice to cure the
action or failure to act (or if such action or failure to act, or consequence of
such action or failure to act, is curable but is of such a nature that it cannot
be cured within such fifteen (15) day period, the Managing Member shall promptly
commence such cure and proceed diligently and in good faith to complete the
curing thereof as promptly as practicable). The Managing Member shall promptly,
and, in any event, by the end of such fifteen (15) day period, notify (the "Cure
Notice") TRS that either (a) the event giving rise to Cause has been cured and
specifying the actions taken in respect thereof or (b) the event giving rise to
Cause is curable but cannot be cured within fifteen (15) days and specifying the
actions that have been taken and will be taken in respect thereof. Unless TRS
reasonably objects in writing to the Cure Notice within ten (10) days of
delivery thereof, the Managing Member has not promptly commenced such cure and
diligently prosecuted the same to completion or the event giving rise to Cause
is not cured within a reasonable time, the event giving rise to Cause shall be
deemed to be cured. If the Managing Member wishes to contest the existence of
Cause, the Managing Member shall within ten (10) days of receipt of the Cause
Notice, or, if TRS has reasonably objected to the Cure Notice, TRS shall within
ten (10) days of receipt of the Cure Notice (or, if the Managing Member has not
promptly commenced such cure and diligently prosecuted the same to completion or
the event giving rise to Cause has not been cured within a reasonable period,
TRS may), submit the existence of Cause to arbitration pursuant to the
provisions of Section 13.11. If the Managing Member neither submits the question
of Cause to arbitration nor delivers a Cure Notice within the fifteen (15) day
period following the date of the delivery of the Cause Notice, then Cause shall
be deemed to exist on the day immediately following such fifteen (15) day period
(but Cause otherwise shall not exist unless and until the arbitrators have
reached a final decision that Cause exists). During any arbitration proceeding,
the Managing Member shall use all diligent

-4-

and good faith efforts to act or cease from acting in the manner that is the
subject of the dispute. Arbitration costs shall be charged to the losing party.

     "Certificate of Formation" shall mean the Company's Certificate of
Formation, as the same may be amended and/or restated from time to time.

     "Clackamas Associates" shall mean Clackamas Associates Limited Partnership,
a Delaware limited partnership.

     "Clackamas Property" shall mean that certain regional shopping center
located in Portland, Oregon and commonly known as Clackamas Town Center.

     "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time
to time, or any corresponding provisions of succeeding law.

     "Company" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph
hereof.

     "Company Assets" shall mean all right, title and interest of the Company
and the Subsidiaries in and to all or any portion of the assets and property,
whether tangible or intangible and whether real, personal or mixed, of the
Company and the Subsidiaries, including any direct or indirect interests
therein, and any property (real or personal) or estate or direct or indirect
interests therein acquired in exchange therefor or in connection therewith.

     "Company Minimum Gain" shall have the meaning set forth in Sections
1.704-2(b)(2) and (d)(1) of the Regulations.

     "Contribution Agreement" shall mean that certain Contribution Agreement
dated August 26, 2002, between the Company and TRS, as the same may be amended
and/or supplemented from time to time.

     "Contribution Default Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
12.2.

     "Contribution Defaulting Member" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 12.2.

     "Contribution Default Loan" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
12.2.

     "Contribution Default Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
12.2.

     "Contribution Non-Defaulting Member" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 12.2.

     "Costs" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.4.

     "Defaulting Member" shall mean a Contribution Defaulting Member or Retained
Debt Defaulting Member.

     "Default Loan" shall mean a Contribution Default Loan or Retained Debt
Default Loan.

     "Deposit Amount" shall mean the earnest money held by the escrow agent
pursuant to the Purchase Agreements and all interest earned thereon.

-5-

"Depreciation" means, for each Allocation Year, an amount equal to the
depreciation, amortization, or other cost recovery deduction allowable with
respect to an asset for such Allocation Year, except that if the Gross Asset
Value of an asset differs from its adjusted basis for federal income tax
purposes at the beginning of such Allocation Year, Depreciation shall be an
amount which bears the same ratio to such beginning Gross Asset Value as the
federal income tax depreciation, amortization, or other cost recovery deduction
for such Allocation Year bears to such beginning adjusted tax basis; provided,
however, that if the adjusted basis for federal income tax purposes of an asset
at the beginning of such Allocation Year is zero, Depreciation shall be
determined with reference to such beginning Gross Asset Value using any
reasonable method selected by the Managing Member.

     "Determination" shall mean a determination by the Service.

     "Entity" shall mean a corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
trust, business trust, unincorporated association, government or any agency or
political subdivision thereof or any other entity.

     "ERISA" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.4(b).

     "Existing Operating Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the
recitals..

     "Expenditures" shall mean, with respect to any fiscal period, the sum of
(a) all cash expenditures of the Company and the Subsidiaries for such period,
including cash expenditures incurred in connection with the Company's and the
Subsidiaries' capital expenditure activities, (b) the amount of all payments of
principal and interest on account of any Indebtedness and (c) such additional
cash reserves as of the last day of such period as the Managing Member
reasonably deems necessary for any capital, operating or other expenditures that
have been authorized by the Board or that otherwise would be permitted hereunder
without Board approval. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Expenditures" shall not
include any expenditures paid from previously reserved amounts or any payments
of principal, interest or other amounts in respect of the Retained Debt, but
shall include the amount of the distributions pursuant to Section 3.1(b).

     "Extended Term Financing" shall mean the financing described on Schedule
6.2(e)(iv).

     "Fair Market Value" shall mean, with respect to a particular asset or
interest, the price at which informed and willing parties dealing at arm's
length and under no compulsion to sell or purchase would agree to purchase or
sell such asset or interest, taking into account, among other things, the
anticipated cash flow, taxable income or taxable loss attributable to the asset
or interest in question. In the case of any Units, the Fair Market Value of such
Units shall be determined without any discount or premium and shall be equal to
the proportionate share of the excess of the Fair Market Value of the Company
assets over Company liabilities that is represented by such Units. In the case
of any asset other than a marketable security and unless the method of
determining Fair Market Value is otherwise provided herein, the Fair Market
Value shall be determined by agreement of the Members. In the case of any
marketable security at any date and unless the method of determining Fair Market
Value is otherwise provided herein, the Fair Market Value of such security shall
equal the closing sale price of such security on the business day (on which any
national securities exchange is open for the normal transaction of business)
next preceding such date, as appearing in any published list of any

-6-

national securities exchange or in the National Market List of the National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., or, if there is no such closing sale
price of such security, the final price of such security at face value quoted on
such business day by a financial institution of recognized standing which
regularly deals in securities of such type.

     "Final Liquidation Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
11.5(a).

     "Fiscal Year" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.

     "Formation Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.

     "FTC" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(e).

     "Funding Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.1(a).

     "GAAP" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the United
States of America as in effect from time to time.

     "GGMI" shall mean General Growth Management, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

     "GGPLP" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph
hereof.

     "GGPLP L.L.C." shall mean GGPLP L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability
company.

     "GGPLP Directors" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.2(b).

     "GGPLP Selected Auditors" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.

     "GG Properties" shall mean General Growth Properties, Inc., a Delaware
corporation or any successor thereof.

     "Gross Leasable Area" shall have the meaning set forth in Schedule 7.1-2.

     "Gross Asset Value" means with respect to any asset, the asset's adjusted
basis for federal income tax purposes, except as follows:

          (i) The initial Gross Asset Value of any asset contributed by a Member
     to the Company shall be the gross Fair Market Value of such asset, provided
     that the initial Gross Asset Values of the assets contributed to the
     Company pursuant to the Contribution Agreement shall be equal to the
     "Contribution Amount" set forth and defined in the Contribution Agreement;

          (ii) The Gross Asset Values of all Company assets shall be adjusted to
     equal their respective gross Fair Market Values (taking Code Section
     7701(g) into account) as of the following times: (A) the acquisition of an
     additional interest in the Company by any new or existing Member in
     exchange for more than a de minimis Capital Contribution; (B) the
     distribution by the Company to a Member of more than a de minimis amount of
     Company property as consideration for an interest in the Company; and (C)
     the liquidation of the Company within the meaning of Regulations Section
     1.704-

-7-

1(b)(2)(ii)(g), provided that an adjustment described in clauses (A) and
     (B) of this paragraph shall be made only if the Managing Member reasonably
     determines that such adjustment is necessary to reflect the relative
     economic interests of the Members in the Company;

          (iii) The Gross Asset Value of any item of Company assets distributed
     to any Member shall be adjusted to equal the gross Fair Market Value
     (taking Code Section 7701(g) into account) of such asset on the date of
     distribution; and

          (iv) The Gross Asset Values of Company assets shall be increased (or
     decreased) to reflect any adjustments to the adjusted basis of such assets
     pursuant to Code Section 734(b) or Code Section 743(b), but only to the
     extent that such adjustments are taken into account in determining Capital
     Accounts pursuant to Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m) and
     subparagraph (f) of the definition of "Net Income and Net Loss" or Section
     4.3(g) hereof; provided, however, that Gross Asset Values shall not be
     adjusted pursuant to this subparagraph (iv) to the extent that an
     adjustment pursuant to subparagraph (ii) is required in connection with a
     transaction that would otherwise result in an adjustment pursuant to this
     subparagraph (iv).

If the Gross Asset Value of an asset has been determined or adjusted pursuant to
subparagraph (ii) or (iv), such Gross Asset Value shall thereafter be adjusted
by the Depreciation taken into account with respect to such asset, for purposes
of computing Net Income and Net Loss.

     "Guarantee" shall mean, with respect to any Person and without duplication,
any direct or indirect obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person
guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness of
any other Person in any manner.

     "HSR" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(e).

     "Indemnitees" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.4.

     "Indebtedness" shall mean indebtedness for borrowed money (but Indebtedness
shall not include trade credit incurred in the ordinary course of business,
personal property lease obligations or Guarantees).

     "Initial Properties" shall mean the OTR Properties and the Clackamas
Property.

     "Investment Company Act" shall mean the Investment Company Act of 1940, as
the same may be amended from time to time.

     "Kenwood Property" shall mean that certain regional shopping center located
in Cincinnati, Ohio and commonly known as Kenwood Towne Centre.

     "Kenwood Purchase Agreement" shall mean that certain Agreement of Purchase
and Sale dated June 26, 2002, between GGPLP and OTR, as amended by that certain
Amendment to Agreements of Purchase and Sale dated as of July 26, 2002 among
GGPLP, OTR and OTRLP, and that certain Second Amendment to Agreements of
Purchase and Sale dated July 31, 2002, among GGPLP, OTR and OTRLP, and as the
same may be further amended and/or supplemented from time to time. Pursuant to
that certain Purchase Agreement Assignment,

-8-

GGPLP has assigned all of its right, title and interest in and to the Kenwood
Purchase Agreement to the Company and the Company has assumed all obligations of
GGPLP under the Kenwood Purchase Agreement.

     "Liquidation Event" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.5(a).

     "Lien" shall mean any mortgage, deed of trust, security interest, lien,
pledge, claim or other encumbrance.

     "Major Center Owner" shall mean a Person that, together with its Permitted
Transferees, owns interests in at least 20 regional shopping centers, a
substantial portion of which are under the management of such Person or
Permitted Transferees of such Person.

     "Major Occupant" shall have the meaning set forth in Schedule 7.1-1.

     "Managing Member" shall mean GGPLP and any Person to whom its Units are
Transferred in accordance with Section 8.2 or 8.3 or Article IX. The Managing
Member may not be removed with or without cause (except as provided in the third
sentence of Section 7.1).

     "Material Variance" shall mean, with respect to any line item in the Annual
Business Plan for any period, a variance with respect thereto equal to the
greater of 5% of the budgeted amount therefor and $20,000.

     "Member Nonrecourse Debt" has the same meaning as the term "partner
nonrecourse debt" in Section 1.704-2(b)(4) of the Regulations.

     "Member Nonrecourse Deductions" shall have the same meaning as the term
"partner nonrecourse deductions" in Section 1.704-2(i) of the Regulations.

     "Members" shall mean GGPLP and TRS and their duly admitted successors or
assigns (in each case, for so long as such Person remains a Member of the
Company) and any other Person who is a member of the Company at the time of
reference thereto (and, prior to such time, has been admitted as a member of the
Company in accordance with the terms hereof).

     "Minimum Gain Attributable to Member Nonrecourse Debt" shall have the same
meaning as the term "partner nonrecourse debt minimum gain" as determined in
accordance with Regulation Section 1.704-2(i)(2).

     "Net Cash Flow" shall mean, with respect to any fiscal period, the excess,
if any, of Receipts for such period over Expenditures for such period.

     "Net Income" or "Net Loss" shall mean, for each Allocation Year, an amount
equal to the Company's taxable income or loss for such Allocation Year,
determined by the Company accountants in accordance with Section 703(a) of the
Code (for this purpose, all items of income, gain, loss or deduction required to
be stated separately pursuant to Section 703(a) of the Code shall be included in
taxable income or loss), with the following adjustments:

-9-

(a) any income of the Company that is exempt from federal income tax
     and not otherwise taken into account in computing Net Income or Net Loss
     shall be added to such taxable income or loss;

          (b) any expenditures of the Company described in Section 705(a)(2)(B)
     of the Code or treated as Code Section 705(a)(2)(B) expenditures under
     Section 704(b) of the Code or Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(i) of the
     Regulations and not otherwise taken into account in computing Net Income or
     Net Loss shall be subtracted from such taxable income or loss;

          (c) gain or loss resulting from any disposition of Company property
     with respect to which gain or loss is recognized for federal income tax
     purposes shall be computed by reference to the Gross Asset Value of such
     property (as the same may be restated or otherwise adjusted pursuant to
     Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)) rather than its adjusted tax basis;

          (d) except as provided in paragraph (g) of this definition of Net
     Income and Net Loss, in lieu of the depreciation, depletion, amortization
     and other cost recovery deductions taken into account in computing taxable
     income or loss, there shall be taken into account Depreciation for such
     Allocation Year; and

          (e) in the event the Gross Asset Value of any Company asset is
     adjusted pursuant to subparagraphs (ii) or (iii) of the definition of Gross
     Asset Value, the amount of such adjustment shall be treated as an item of
     gain (if the adjustment increases the Gross Asset Value of the asset) or an
     item of loss (if the adjustment decreases the Gross Asset Value of the
     asset) from the disposition of such asset and shall be taken into account
     for purposes of computing Net Income or Net Loss;

          (f) to the extent an adjustment to the adjusted tax basis of any
     Company asset pursuant to Code Section 734(b) is required, pursuant to
     Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m)(4), to be taken into account in
     determining Capital Accounts as a result of a distribution other than in
     liquidation of a Member's interest in the Company, the amount of such
     adjustment shall be treated as an item of gain (if the adjustment increases
     the basis of the asset) or loss (if the adjustment decreases such basis)
     from the disposition of such asset and shall be taken into account for
     purposes of computing Net Income or Net Loss; and

          (g) Notwithstanding any other provision of this definition, any items
     which are specially allocated pursuant to Section 4.3, Section 4.4, or
     Section 4.5 hereof shall not be taken into account in computing Net Income
     or Net Loss.

     The amounts of the items of Company income, gain, loss or deduction
available to be specially allocated pursuant to Sections 4.3, 4.4, and 4.5
hereof shall be determined by applying rules analogous to those set forth in
subparagraphs (a) through (f) above.

     "Non-Defaulting Member" shall mean a Contribution Non-Defaulting Member or
a Retained Debt Non-Defaulting Member.

-10-

"Nondiscretionary Items" shall mean items that reasonably must be paid by
the Company or any Subsidiary to avoid a material adverse effect on the
business, operations or value of the assets of the Company or such Subsidiary or
any Property (but not capital expenditures made in connection with the
renovation or expansion of any Property unless required by law or contractual
obligation or made in connection with the repair or restoration of any Property
following the occurrence of a casualty or condemnation). Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, the Members acknowledge and agree that
Nondiscretionary Items include the minimum amount of funds needed to (a) pay and
perform when due all of the obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary under
any notes, mortgages and other documents to which the Company or such Subsidiary
is or shall be a party or by which it or its assets are bound and which have
been entered into in accordance with the terms hereof, (b) pay when due real
estate and other taxes affecting the Company or Subsidiary assets, utility
charges and insurance premiums for the Company and Subsidiary assets and the
Company and the Subsidiaries, (c) comply with all laws now or hereafter in force
which shall be applicable to all or any part of the Company and Subsidiary
assets and the operation and management thereof (including the making of capital
expenditures required for such compliance), (d) following a casualty,
condemnation or deed in lieu thereof in respect of any Property or portion
thereof, restore such Property to its condition (or as near thereto as is
practicable) immediately prior to such casualty, condemnation or deed in lieu
thereof, (e) pay when due the fees or other amounts owing pursuant to Article
VII or (f) in the case of an emergency involving an immediate threat to persons,
property or the continued operations of any Property, take actions to mitigate
or eliminate such threat.

     "Nonrecourse Deductions" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
1.704-2(b)(1) and (c) of the Regulations.

     "Nonrecourse Liabilities" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
1.704-2(b)(3) of the Regulations.

     "Offeree Members" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.

     "Offering Members" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.

     "OTR" shall mean OTR, an Ohio general partnership.

     "OTRLP" shall mean OTR Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership.

     "OTR Properties" shall mean the Kenwood Property, the Silver City Property
and the Tyler Property.

     "Permitted Transferee" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other
Person that, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries,
controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, such Person. As used
herein, the term "control" shall mean having both (a) at least fifty-one percent
(51%) of the economic interest in a Person and (B) at least fifty-one percent
(51%) of the voting rights with respect to such Person with the full right to
exercise such vote.

     "Person" shall mean an individual or Entity.

-11-

"Plan Asset Regulations" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
6.4(b).

     "Prime" shall mean the prime rate as announced from time to time by Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A.

     "Properties" shall mean the Initial Properties and the Company's direct or
indirect interest in any of the foregoing and any additional shopping center or
other real estate properties or direct or indirect interests therein acquired
(directly or indirectly) by the Company from time to time, and the term
"Property" shall have a meaning correlative thereto.

     "Property Indebtedness" shall mean Indebtedness the repayment of which is
secured by, among other things, a mortgage lien on one or more Properties,
including Retained Debt.

     "Proportionate Share" shall mean, with respect to any Member (unless
otherwise provided herein) at any time, a fraction, the numerator of which is
the total number of Units owned by such Member at such time and the denominator
of which is the total number of Units owned by all of the Members at such time.

     "Proposed Annual Business Plan" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
6.3(a).

     "Purchase Agreement Assignment" shall mean that certain Assignment and
Assumption Agreement dated August 26, 2002, between the Company and GGPLP.

     "Purchase Agreements" shall mean the Kenwood Purchase Agreement, the Silver
City Purchase Agreement and the Tyler Purchase Agreement, collectively.

     "Qualifying Firm" shall mean, at any particular time, a firm that is a
nationally recognized certified public accounting firm at such time and that is
not the auditors of GG Properties or GGPLP at such time.

     "Receipts" shall mean, with respect to any fiscal period, the sum of all
cash receipts of the Company and the Subsidiaries from all sources for such
period (including cash Capital Contributions) and any amounts held as reserves
as of the last day of such period which are in excess of necessary reserves of
the Company and the Subsidiaries for any capital, operating or other
expenditures that have been authorized by the Board or that otherwise would be
permitted hereunder without Board approval, as reasonably determined by the
Managing Member. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Receipts" shall not include the
proceeds or other amounts received in respect of Retained Debt (including any
replacement Retained Debt), which shall be paid directly to GGPLP.

     "Regulations" means the proposed, temporary and final regulations
promulgated by the Treasury Department pursuant to the Code, as amended from
time to time.

     "Regulatory Allocations" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4.

     "Releasees" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(c).

     "Retained Debt" shall mean the Property Indebtedness or portion thereof as
is designated by the Managing Member as "Retained Debt" from time to time in
accordance with the terms

-12-

hereof, in each case only for so long as and to the extent that such Property
Indebtedness or portion thereof remains outstanding and retains its
characterization as Retained Debt in accordance with the terms hereof.

     "Retained Debt Default Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
10.3(b).

     "Retained Debt Defaulting Member" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 10.3(b).

     "Retained Debt Default Loan" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
10.3(b).

     "Retained Debt Default Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
10.3(a).

     "Retained Debt Loan Documents" shall mean the notes, mortgages and other
loan documents evidencing, securing or otherwise relating to the Retained Debt.

     "Retained Debt Non-Defaulting Member" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 10.3(b).

     "Rules" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(e).

     "Sale Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.3(a).

     "Section 704(c) Tax Items" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
4.6(c).

     "Securities Laws" shall mean the 33 Act and 34 Act, collectively.

     "Service" shall mean the Internal Revenue Service.

     "Selling Member" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.3(a).

     "Seventh Anniversary Date" shall mean the seventh anniversary of the date
hereof.

     "Silver City Property" shall mean that certain regional shopping center
located in Taunton, Massachusetts and commonly known as Silver City Galleria.

     "Silver City Purchase Agreement" shall mean that certain Agreement of
Purchase and Sale dated June 26, 2002, between GGPLP and OTR, as amended by that
certain Corrective Amendment to Agreement of Purchase and Sale dated as of June
26, 2002, between GGPLP and OTRLP, that certain Amendment to Agreements of
Purchase and Sale dated as of June 26, 2002, among GGPLP, OTR and OTRLP, and
that certain Second Amendment to Agreements of Purchase and Sale dated July 31,
2002, among GGPLP, OTR and OTRLP, and as the same may be further amended and/or
supplemented from time to time. Pursuant to that certain Purchase Agreement
Assignment, GGPLP has assigned all of its right, title and interest in and to
the Silver City Purchase Agreement to the Company and the Company has assumed
all obligations of GGPLP under the Silver City Purchase Agreement.

     "Subsidiaries" shall mean any direct or indirect corporate, partnership,
limited liability company, trust or other subsidiary of the Company, whether or
not wholly owned by the Company, and a "Subsidiary" shall mean any one of them.

-13-

"Tax Items" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.6(a).

     "Tax Matters Member" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4.

     "Tax Payments" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.8.

     "33 Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

     "34 Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     "Transfer" shall mean to transfer, sell, assign, pledge, hypothecate, give,
create a security interest in or lien on, place in trust (voting or otherwise),
transfer by operation of law (other than by way of a merger or consolidation of
the Company) or in any other way encumber or dispose of, directly or indirectly
and whether or not voluntarily, any Units, and the terms "Transferred",
"Transferee" and "Transferor" shall have correlative meanings.

     "Trigger Date" shall mean the Seventh Anniversary Date; provided, however,
that, in the case of the exercise by TRS of its rights under Section 8.3 or
Article IX and in the event that the Trigger Date has not otherwise occurred,
the Trigger Date shall be deemed to have occurred on the earlier of (a) the date
of determination that Cause has occurred and (b) the date that the Managing
Member is no longer a Major Center Owner or a Permitted Transferee thereof.

     "TRS" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph
hereof.

     "TRS Directors" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.2(b).

     "Tyler Property" shall mean that certain regional shopping center located
in Riverside, California and commonly known as Galleria at Tyler.

     "Tyler Purchase Agreement" shall mean that certain Agreement of Purchase
and Sale dated June 26, 2002, between GGPLP and OTR, as amended by that certain
First Amendment to Agreements of Purchase and Sale dated as of July 26, 2002,
among GGPLP, OTR and OTRLP, and that certain Second Amendment to Agreements of
Purchase and Sale dated July 31, 2002, between GGPLP, OTR and OTRLP, and as the
same may be further amended and/or supplemented from time to time. Pursuant to
that certain Purchase Agreement Assignment, GGPLP has assigned all of its right,
title and interest in and to the Tyler Purchase Agreement to the Company and the
Company has assumed all obligations of GGPLP under the Tyler Purchase Agreement.

     "UBTI" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.4(c).

     "Units" shall mean units of membership interest in the Company, including
(except as otherwise expressly provided herein) the rights to allocations,
distributions, management, approval and participation provided herein.

     "Unpermitted Transfer Closing Date" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 8.4(b).

     "Unpermitted Transfer Purchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 8.4(a).

-14-

"Unpermitted Transfer" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.4(a).

     "Unpermitted Transferee" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
8.4(a).

     "Value" shall mean, with respect to any Units or other property involved in
any Transfer of Units, the Fair Market Value of such Units or other property.
The Transferor party or parties and the Transferee party or parties shall
consult and negotiate with each other in good faith in an attempt to reach
agreement as to the Fair Market Value of the Units or other property. In the
event that the Transferor party or parties and the Transferee party or parties
do not reach agreement within thirty days, each of the Transferor party or
parties, on the one hand, and the Transferee party or parties, on the other
hand, shall engage an appraiser to determine the Fair Market Value of the Units
or other property within an additional ten days. The Company shall, and shall
cause its accountants and counsel to, make readily available to each such
appraiser any of its relevant books and records for purposes of such valuation.
Each of the Transferor party or parties, on the one hand, and the Transferee
party or parties, on the other hand, shall, within an additional ten days,
provide written notice of their/its appraiser's determination of the Fair Market
Value of the Units or other property (a "Proposed Value"), together with a
report of its/their appraiser in respect thereof, to a third appraiser who has
been designated by the other two appraisers. The third appraiser shall, within
an additional fifteen days, select as the Value of such Units or other property
the Proposed Value which he/she believes is closest to the Fair Market Value of
such Units or other property (and the third appraiser may select no amount other
than one of the Proposed Values as the Value of such Units or other property).
Such determination of Value shall be final and binding. Each appraiser referred
to in this paragraph must: (a) have no less than ten years of experience in
valuing, in the case of a Unit, companies engaged in businesses similar to that
of the Company and, in the case of other property, property similar to such
other property; and (b) be independent of any parties to the Transfer. Each
party or parties shall pay the cost of the appraiser designated by it/them (but,
if a third appraiser is designated, the costs of the appraisers shall be paid by
the party or parties whose Proposed Value is not selected as the Value of the
Units or other property).

     "Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries" shall mean Subsidiaries that, directly and/or
indirectly, are wholly-owned by the Company.

     For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided
or unless the context otherwise requires:

          (a) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of
     similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular
     Article, Section or other subdivision;

          (b) the words "including" and "include" and other words of similar
     import shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation";
     and

          (c) any capitalized term used in any Schedule to this Agreement but
     not defined in such Schedule shall have the meaning assigned to such term
     in this Agreement or in another Schedule to this Agreement.

-15-

ARTICLE II

                             CONTINUATION OF COMPANY

     2.1 CONTINUATION OF COMPANY. The Company was formed as a limited liability
Company under the Act on July 25, 2002 by the filing of the Certificate of
Formation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on July 25, 2002.
The parties hereby ratify the execution and filing thereof by the authorized
person (within the meaning of the Act) identified therein. It is the intention
of the Members that the provisions of this Agreement govern their relations and
their respective liabilities and obligations. Accordingly, to the extent
permitted by law, in the event of any conflict between any provisions contained
in this Agreement and any provision in the Act, the terms and provisions of this
Agreement shall control. With respect to any matter not governed by this
Agreement, the provisions of the Act shall control.

     2.2 NAME. The business of the Company shall be conducted under the name
"GGP-TRS L.L.C" or such other name or names as are designated by the Managing
Member from time to time. All transactions of the Company, to the extent
permitted by applicable law, shall be carried on and completed in the name of
the Company or such other name or names as shall be designated by the Managing
Member in writing from time to time. The Members shall cause to be executed,
filed and published on behalf of the Company such assumed or fictitious name
certificates as may be required by law to be filed or published.

     2.3 PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The location of the Company's principal
place of business shall be at 110 North Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606 or
such other place in the United States as is designated by the Managing Member
from time to time.

     2.4 PURPOSE AND BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY. The purpose of the Company shall
be to, directly or indirectly, acquire, develop, redevelop, hold, own, sell,
lease, finance, transfer, encumber, exchange, and otherwise dispose of or deal
with the Properties (including the acquisition and development of land or
properties adjacent to the Properties) and, subject to the provisions of Section
12.3, such other properties and assets as shall be determined by the Board. The
Company shall have all powers necessary or desirable to accomplish the purposes
enumerated. The Company shall not, directly or indirectly, acquire any other
assets or businesses (other than in connection with the Properties, including
the acquisition and development of land or properties adjacent to the
Properties) except with approval of the Board. The name and funds of the Company
shall be used only for Company purposes.

     2.5 TERM. The Company shall commence business on the date hereof and shall
continue its business indefinitely until its termination as hereinafter
provided.

     2.6 NATURE OF THE COMPANY. It is intended that the Company be a limited
liability company meeting the definition of "partnership" contained in Section
7701 of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder. Except for purposes of
the Code and other tax laws, the Members specifically intend and agree that the
Company shall not be a partnership (including, a limited partnership) or any
other kind of venture or Person, but a limited liability company under and
pursuant to the Act. The Company's Certificate of Formation, this Agreement and
the relationships created thereby and hereby and arising therefrom shall not be
construed to establish a partnership as among the Members or any other Person or
to constitute any Member a partner

-16-

in the Company or a partner of any other Member or Person. All rights,
liabilities and obligations of the Members, both as among themselves and as to
Persons not parties to this Agreement, shall be as provided in this Agreement
and, to the extent not provided herein, in the Act.

     2.7 MEMBERS' NAMES AND ADDRESSES. The name and mailing address of each
Member and the number of Units owned by such Member are listed on Schedule I
attached hereto.

     2.8 REGISTERED OFFICE AND REGISTERED AGENT. The address of the registered
office of the Company in the State of Delaware is c/o Corporation Service
Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware 19808. The name
of its registered agent at such address is Corporation Service Company. The
Managing Member may at any time and from time to time change such office or
agent by taking such actions as are required by the Act to change the same,
including executing and filing an amendment to the Certificate of Formation.

     2.9 ORGANIZATION CERTIFICATES. The Managing Member shall cause to be
executed, filed and/or published (and, if required by law, the other Members
shall execute):

          (a) any and all such amendments or supplements to the Company's
     Certificate of Formation as from time to time may be required by the Act;
     and

          (b) all such further certificates, notices, statements or other
     instruments as may be required by law for the formation, qualification or
     operation of a limited liability company in all jurisdictions where the
     Company may elect to do business or otherwise necessary to carry out the
     purposes of this Agreement.

     The Managing Member shall be an authorized person of the Company for
purposes of any filings under the Act and shall be authorized to execute and
deliver on behalf of the Company any of the other certificates, notices,
statements or other instruments referred to in this Section 2.9.

     2.10 RESTRICTIONS ON OTHER AGREEMENTS. No Member shall grant any proxy or
enter into or agree to be bound by any voting trust with respect to the Units,
nor shall any Member enter into any agreement or arrangements of any kind
(including agreements or arrangements with respect to the acquisition,
disposition or voting of Units) with any Person with respect to the Units, in
either case on terms inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.

                                  ARTICLE III

                              COMPANY CAPITAL; ETC.

     3.1 INITIAL CONTRIBUTIONS OF MEMBERS; ETC.

          (a) As their initial Capital Contributions to the Company and
     concurrently herewith, (i) TRS is causing Clackamas Associates to convey to
     the Company or a Subsidiary all of its right, title and interest in and to
     the Clackamas Property in accordance with the terms of the Contribution
     Agreement and (ii) GGPLP and TRS are

-17-

contributing (or are deemed to have contributed) cash in the amounts set
     forth opposite their names on Schedule I.

          (b) Concurrently herewith, (i) the Company shall distribute to TRS
     cash in the amount of $1,619,025 (but the Company may set off against such
     distribution the amount of any payments owing to it by TRS pursuant to the
     Contribution Agreement but the full amount of such distribution and
     payments shall be deemed to have been made for all purposes hereunder,
     including the calculation of Receipts and Expenditures, regardless of any
     such set-off) and (ii) the Company shall distribute to GGPLP cash in the
     amount of $695,592.

          (c) The Members acknowledge and agree that immediately after taking
     into account the Capital Contributions and distributions described in
     Sections 3.1(a) and (b), GGPLP will have a positive Capital Account balance
     of $130,661,577 and TRS will have a positive Capital Account balance of
     $130,661,577.

     3.2 NO ADDITIONAL CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS. Except as expressly required by
Section 3.1, Article XII or Section 10.6(c), no Member shall have any obligation
to make any additional Capital Contribution to the Company or to advance any
funds thereto.

     3.3 NO WITHDRAWAL OR DISSOCIATION, ETC. No Member shall have the power or
right to withdraw or dissociate from the Company, or withdraw any part of its
Capital Contribution(s), except as specifically provided herein. No Member shall
be entitled to any distributions from the Company, except as specifically
provided herein. No Member shall be entitled to interest on any Capital
Contribution to the Company. The occurrence of any event specified in Section
18-304 of the Act as to any Member shall not result in such Member ceasing to be
a member of the Company.

     3.4 PRIORITY. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, there shall be
no priority among the Members as to the return of Capital Contributions or
withdrawals from or distributions of the Company.

                                   ARTICLE IV

                           ALLOCATION OF COMPANY ITEMS

     4.1 MAINTENANCE OF CAPITAL ACCOUNTS. A separate Capital Account shall be
maintained for each Member. Without limiting the foregoing, the Capital Account
of each Member shall be (a) credited with the Member's Capital Contribution(s)
plus the amount of Net Income allocated (or other items of income or gain
specially allocated) to such Member pursuant to this Agreement plus the amount
of any Company liabilities assumed by such Member or which are secured by any
assets distributed to such Member and (b) debited with the sum of (i) the amount
of Net Loss allocated (or other items of loss specially allocated) to such
Member pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, (ii) all money and the
Gross Asset Value of any assets distributed by the Company to such Member
pursuant to the terms hereof, and (iii) the amount of any liabilities of such
Member assumed by the Company or which are secured by any assets contributed by
such Member to the Company. Any reference in this Agreement to the

-18-

Capital Account of a Member shall be deemed to refer to such Capital Account as
the same may be credited or debited from time to time in accordance herewith.

     4.2 NET INCOME AND NET LOSS.

          (a) Allocation of Net Income. After giving effect to the allocations
     set forth in Sections 4.3 and 4.4, Net Income for any Allocation Year or
     other applicable period (including the period ending on the date on which
     there is a withdrawal of any Member or a partial withdrawal of the capital
     of any Member or the period ending on the date immediately preceding the
     date on which an additional Capital Contribution is made to the Company by
     a Member in accordance with the terms hereof) shall be allocated between
     the Members in accordance with their Proportionate Shares at such time.

          (b) Allocation of Net Loss. After giving effect to the allocations set
     forth in Sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5, Net Loss for any Allocation Year or
     other applicable period (including the period ending on the date on which
     there is a withdrawal of any Member or a partial withdrawal of the capital
     of any Member or the period ending on the date immediately preceding the
     date on which an additional Capital Contribution is made to the Company by
     a Member in accordance with the terms hereof) shall be allocated between
     the Members in accordance with their Proportionate Shares at such time.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein (but subject to the
provisions of Sections 10.2(b) and 10.6(c)), the interest expense and/or other
deductions and items of income relating to the Retained Debt shall remain at all
times the expense and/or income of GGPLP and shall not be taken into account in
calculating Net Income or Net Loss.

     4.3 SPECIAL ALLOCATIONS. Notwithstanding any provisions of Section 4.2 to
the contrary, the following special allocations shall be made in the following
order:

          (a) Minimum Gain Chargeback (Nonrecourse Liabilities). Notwithstanding
     anything to the contrary contained in this Article IV, if there is a net
     decrease in Company Minimum Gain for any Allocation Year (except as a
     result of conversion or refinancing of Company Nonrecourse Liabilities,
     certain capital contributions or revaluation of the Company property, all
     as further outlined in subsections (d)(2), (f)(2), or (f)(3) of Regulations
     Section 1.704-2), each Member shall be specially allocated items of Company
     income and gain for such year (and, if necessary, subsequent years) in an
     amount equal to that Member's share of the net decrease in the Company
     Minimum Gain. The items to be so allocated shall be determined in
     accordance with Regulations Section 1.702-2(f)(6) and 1.704-2(j)(2). This
     section is intended to comply with the minimum gain chargeback requirement
     in said sections of the Regulations and shall be interpreted consistently
     therewith. Allocations pursuant to this section shall be made in proportion
     to the respective amounts required to be allocated to each Member pursuant
     thereto.

          (b) Minimum Gain Attributable to Member Nonrecourse Debt. After giving
     effect to Section 4.3(a), if there is a net decrease in Minimum Gain
     Attributable To Member Nonrecourse Debt during any Allocation Year (other
     than due to the conversion, refinancing, or other change in the debt
     instrument that causes it to become partially or wholly a Nonrecourse
     Liability, certain capital contributions or revaluations of the

-19-

Company property as further outlined in Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(4)),
     each Member shall be specially allocated items of Company income and gain
     for such Allocation Year (and, if necessary, subsequent years) in an amount
     equal to that Member's share of the net decrease in such Minimum Gain
     Attributable To Member Nonrecourse Debt. The items to be so allocated shall
     be determined in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(4) and
     (j)(2). This section is intended to comply with the minimum gain chargeback
     requirement in said sections of the Regulations and shall be interpreted
     consistently therewith. Allocations pursuant to this section shall be made
     in proportion to the respective amount required to be allocated to each
     Member pursuant thereto.

          (c) Qualified Income Offset. In the event that any Member unexpectedly
     receives any adjustments, allocations or distributions described in
     Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5), or (6), items of Company
     income and gain shall be specially allocated to such Member in an amount
     and manner sufficient to eliminate, to the extent required by the
     Regulations, the Adjusted Capital Account Deficit of the Member as quickly
     as possible, provided that an allocation pursuant to this Section 4.3(c)
     shall be made only if and to the extent that the Member would have an
     Adjusted Capital Account Deficit after all other allocations provided for
     in this Section 4 have been tentatively made as if this Section 4.3(c) were
     not in the Agreement. This Section 4.3(c) is intended to constitute a
     "qualified income offset" under Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)
     and shall be interpreted consistently therewith.

          (d) Gross Income Allocation. In the event any Member has a deficit
     Capital Account at the end of any Allocation Year which is in excess of the
     amount such Member is deemed obligated to restore pursuant to the
     penultimate sentences of Regulations Sections 1.704-2(g)(1) and
     1.704-2(i)(5), each such Member shall be specially allocated items of
     Company income and gain in the amount of such excess as quickly as
     possible, provided that an allocation pursuant to this Section 4.3(d) shall
     be made only if and to the extent that such Member would have a deficit
     Capital Account in excess of such amount after all such allocations
     provided for in this Section 4 have been made as if Section 4.3(c) and this
     Section 4.3(d) were not in the Agreement.

          (e) Nonrecourse Deductions. Nonrecourse Deductions for any Allocation
     Year shall be allocated to the Members in accordance with their respective
     Proportionate Shares; provided, however, that to the extent Depreciation
     deductions constitute Nonrecourse Deductions, such Depreciation deductions
     shall be allocated to the Members in the same manner that Depreciation
     deductions are allocated to the Members pursuant to Section 4.3(h) hereof.

          (f) Member Nonrecourse Deductions. Member Nonrecourse Deductions for
     any Allocation Year or other period shall be specially allocated to the
     Member that bears the economic risk of loss for the Member Nonrecourse Debt
     in respect of which such Member Nonrecourse Deductions are attributable (as
     determined under Regulation Sections 1.704-2(b)(4) and (i)(1)).

          (g) Section 754 Basis Adjustments. To the extent an adjustment to the
     adjusted tax basis of any Company asset pursuant to Section 734(b) or
     743(b) of the Code is

-20-

required to be taken into account in determining Capital Accounts in
     accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m) as a result of a
     distribution to a Member in complete liquidation of such Member's interest
     in the Company, the amount of such adjustment to the Capital Accounts shall
     be treated as an item of gain (if the adjustment increases the basis of the
     asset) or loss (if the adjustment decreases such basis) and such gain or
     loss shall be specially allocated to the Members in a manner consistent
     with the manner in which their Capital Accounts are required to be adjusted
     pursuant to such Section of the Regulations).

          (h) Special Allocation of Depreciation. Unless and until otherwise
     elected by GGPLP (where GGPLP may make such election out with respect to
     any one or more Properties) and subject to the following sentence, all
     Depreciation and similar deductions relating to Company Properties shall be
     specially allocated one hundred percent (100%) to GGPLP. TRS may elect to
     have the preceding sentence of this Section 4.3(h) cease to apply, but only
     at the following times: (i) immediately prior to a closing of a sale,
     transfer, or other disposition by TRS of all of its Company Units to an
     unrelated entity, but only if such sale, transfer, or other disposition
     will not violate the terms of this Agreement, (ii) at any time that TRS
     modifies its internal policies to provide that, in making decisions on all
     new investments, TRS will operate as though it were subject to the UBTI
     provisions of the Code, or (iii) as of January 1 of any year during which
     (A) there is a change in law (including any new interpretation of existing
     law) that is binding upon both TRS and the Service, as a result of which,
     TRS becomes subject to the UBTI provisions of the Code or (B) the Service
     asserts that TRS is or entities such as TRS are subject to the UBTI
     provisions of the Code.

          (i) Special Allocation of Gain. Upon the Company's sale, transfer, or
     other disposition of any Company Property (the "Sold Property"), any gain
     realized by the Company with respect to the Sold Property shall be
     allocated among the Members as follows:

               (i) first, to GGPLP in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of
     (A) the aggregate Depreciation or similar deductions allocated to GGPLP
     with respect to the Sold Property pursuant to Section 4.3(h) hereof for the
     current and all prior Allocation Years, over (B) the aggregate gain
     allocated to GGPLP with respect to the Sold Property pursuant to Section
     4.3(i) for all prior Allocation Years;

               (ii) second, to GGPLP in an amount equal to the excess, if any,
     of (A) the aggregate Depreciation or similar deductions allocated to GGPLP
     pursuant to Section 4.3(h) hereof with respect to Properties that were
     previously Sold Properties (the "Previously Sold Properties") for the
     current and all prior Allocation Years, over (B) the aggregate gain
     allocated to GGPLP pursuant to Section 4.3(i) with respect to such
     Previously Sold Properties for all prior Allocation Years;

               (iii) third, to GGPLP in an amount equal to the excess, if any,
     of (A) the difference between (1) the aggregate Depreciation or similar
     deductions allocated to GGPLP with respect to its remaining Properties
     (i.e., Properties other than the Sold Property and the Previously Sold
     Properties) (the "Remaining Properties") pursuant to Section 4.3(h) hereof
     for the current and all prior Allocation Years and (2) the aggregate

-21-

Depreciation or similar deductions that would have been allocated to GGPLP
     with respect to the Remaining Properties pursuant to Section 4.3(h) hereof
     for the current and all prior Allocation Years if GGPLP had been allocated
     only its Proportionate Share of such Depreciation or similar deductions in
     each such year, over (B) the aggregate gain allocated to GGPLP with respect
     to the Remaining Properties pursuant to Section 4.3(i) for all prior
     Allocation Years; and

               (iv) the balance, if any, to the Members in accordance with their
     Proportionate Shares;

     provided, however, that in the Allocation Year within which the dissolution
     and liquidation of the Company occur pursuant to Article XI hereof, any
     gain realized by the Company with respect to any and all Company assets
     shall be allocated among the Members as follows: (i) first, to GGPLP in an
     amount equal to the excess, if any, of (A) the aggregate Depreciation or
     similar deductions allocated to GGPLP pursuant to Section 4.3(h) hereof for
     the current and all prior Allocation Years, over (B) the aggregate gain
     allocated to GGPLP pursuant to this Section 4.3(i) for all prior Allocation
     Years; and (ii) the balance, if any, to the Members in accordance with
     their Proportionate Shares.

     4.4 CURATIVE ALLOCATIONS. The allocations set forth in Sections 4.3(a),
4.3(b), 4.3(c), 4.3(d), 4.3(e), 4.3(f), 4.3(g) and Section 4.5 (the "Regulatory
Allocations") are intended to comply with certain requirements of Regulations
Section 1.704-1(b). Notwithstanding any provisions of Sections 4.2 and 4.3 to
the contrary (other than the Regulatory Allocations), the Managing Member shall
make such offsetting special allocations of Company income, gain, loss or
deduction in whatever manner it determines appropriate so that, after such
offsetting allocations are made, each Member's Capital Account is, to the extent
possible, equal to the Capital Account balance such Member would have had if the
Regulatory Allocations were not part of the Agreement and all Company items were
allocated pursuant to Sections 4.2, 4.3(h), and 4.3(i). This Section 4.4 is
intended to minimize to the extent possible and to the extent necessary any
economic distortions which may result from application of the Regulatory
Allocations and shall be interpreted in a manner consistent therewith.

     4.5 LOSS LIMITATION. Net Losses and deductions allocated pursuant to
Section 4.2 and Section 4.3(h) hereof shall not exceed the maximum amount of
Losses that can be allocated without causing any Member to have an Adjusted
Capital Account Deficit at the end of any Allocation Year. In the event some but
not all of the Members would have Adjusted Capital Account Deficits as a
consequence of an allocation of Net Losses or deductions pursuant to Section 4.2
or Section 4.3(h) hereof, the limitation set forth in this Section 4.5 shall be
applied on a Member by Member basis and Net Losses or deductions not allocable
to any Member as a result of such limitation shall be allocated to the other
Members in accordance with the positive balances in such Member's Capital
Accounts (as adjusted in accordance with the definition "Adjusted Capital
Account Deficit") so as to allocate the maximum permissible Net Losses and
deductions to each Member under Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) of the Regulations.

-22-

4.6 TAX ALLOCATIONS.

          (a) Generally. Subject to Sections 4.6(b) and 4.6(c), tax items of
     income, gain, loss, deduction and credit (collectively, "Tax Items") shall
     be allocated among the Members on the same basis as the respective book
     items. Each Member shall provide to the Company information regarding the
     tax basis, depreciable lives and depreciation methods of or used for the
     assets directly and indirectly conveyed by it to the Company.

          (b) Sections 1245/1250 Recapture. If any portion of gain from the sale
     of property is treated as gain which is ordinary income by virtue of the
     application of Code Sections 1245 or 1250 ("Affected Gain"), then (A) such
     Affected Gain shall be allocated among the Members in the same proportion
     that the depreciation and amortization deductions giving rise to the
     Affected Gain were allocated and (B) other Tax Items of gain of the same
     character that would have been recognized, but for the application of Code
     Sections 1245 and/or 1250, shall be allocated away from those Members who
     are allocated Affected Gain pursuant to Clause (A) so that, to the extent
     possible, the other Members are allocated the same amount, and type, of
     capital gain that would have been allocated to them had Code Sections 1245
     and/or 1250 not applied.

          (c) Allocations Respecting Section 704(c) and Revaluations.
     Notwithstanding Section 4.6 (a) and (b), Tax Items with respect to Company
     property that are subject to Code Section 704(c) and/or Regulation Section
     1.704-3 (collectively "Section 704(c) Tax Items") shall, to the extent so
     required, be allocated in accordance with said Code section and/or
     Regulation Section 1.704-3, as the case may be. Any elections or other
     decisions relating to such allocations shall be made by the Tax Matters
     Member in any manner that reasonably reflects the purpose and intention of
     this Agreement, provided that, as determined in the sole discretion of the
     Tax Matters Member separately with respect to each asset of the Company,
     the Company shall elect to apply either the traditional allocation method
     (permitted by Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-3(b)) or the traditional
     allocation method with curative allocations (permitted by Treasury
     Regulation Section 1.704-3(c)).

     4.7 ALLOCATIONS SUBSEQUENT TO ASSIGNMENT. To the extent permitted by the
Code, Net Income or Net Loss and other items attributable to Units acquired by
reason of an assignment from a Member shall be allocated or adjusted between the
assignor and the assignee based upon either (a) the length of time in any fiscal
period of the Company during which the assigned Units were owned by each of
them, determined with reference to the effective date of the assignment, or (b)
an interim closing of the Company's books (at assignor's sole expense), such
manner of allocation or adjustment to be determined by the Tax Matters Member.

     4.8 COMPANY DISTRIBUTIONS. The Company shall, with respect to each calendar
month, distribute to the Members the Net Cash Flow for such month. Subject to
the other provisions of this Section 4.8, and except as otherwise provided by
Article XI, any such distributions shall be paid to the Members pro rata in
accordance with their Proportionate Shares. To the extent that any taxes or
withholding taxes are due on behalf of or with respect to any Member and the
Company is required by law to withhold or to make such tax payments ("Tax
Payments"), the Company shall withhold such amounts and make such Tax Payments
as so required. Each Tax Payment made on behalf of or with respect to a Member
(but not any Tax

-23-

Payment made by or required to be withheld by a Subsidiary with respect to
income allocable to or distributions to be made to the Company) shall be deemed
a distribution of Net Cash Flow (and shall reduce distributions of Net Cash Flow
that are made concurrently or thereafter to such Member), and any such deemed
distribution shall be deemed to have been paid to the Member on the earlier of
the date when the corresponding Tax Payment is made by the Company or the date
that the distributions, if any, giving rise to the obligation to make such Tax
Payment were made. The Company is hereby directed to deduct the amount of any
Default Loans that are due and payable from any distributions to be made to a
Defaulting Member pursuant to this Section 4.8 and pay such amounts to the
appropriate Non-Defaulting Members (and such deducted amounts shall be deemed to
be distributions made to such Defaulting Member). In the event that the Company
pays any principal, interest or other amount in respect of the Retained Debt at
the request of GGPLP (which the Company shall be obligated to do to the extent
of GGPLP's share of Company distributions that are then due and payable), the
Company shall deduct the amount of such principal, interest or other payment
from any distributions to be made to GGPLP pursuant to this Section 4.8 (and
such deducted amounts shall be deemed to be distributions made to GGPLP).
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, no distribution of
Net Cash Flow shall be made hereunder if such distribution would cause the
Company to breach any covenant contained in, or be in default under, any
agreement binding upon the Company.

                                   ARTICLE V

                            ACCOUNTING MATTERS; ETC.

     5.1 FISCAL YEAR; DESIGNATION OF AUDITORS. The Company's fiscal year
("Fiscal Year") shall be the calendar year. The Company's auditors (the
"Auditors") shall be selected by the Board; provided, however, that until the
Board determines otherwise, the Auditors shall be Altschuler, Melvoin & Glasser
("AMG"). The Managing Member may, with respect to any Fiscal Year, solicit bids
from AMG and one or more other Qualifying Firms to serve as the Auditors for
such fiscal year. If the GGPLP Directors desire to retain one of such other
Qualified Auditors as the Auditors for such year (the "GGPLP Selected Auditors")
but the TRS Directors do not desire to retain the GGPLP Selected Auditors as the
Auditors for such year, then the Company shall retain AMG as the Auditors for
such year but TRS shall reimburse the Company to the extent that the fees paid
to AMG for serving as the Auditors for such year exceed the amount of the fees
that would have been paid to the GGPLP Selected Auditors for serving as the
Auditors for such year. The amount of the fees that would have been paid to the
GGPLP Selected Auditors shall be determined in accordance with the fee schedule
set forth in the bid submitted by the GGPLP Selected Auditors. Such
reimbursement shall be made within ten days following request therefor by the
Managing Member.

     5.2 BOOKS AND RECORDS. The Company shall maintain or cause to be maintained
at the principal place of business of the Company full, true, complete and
correct books of account of the Company. The books of account shall contain
particulars of all monies, goods or effects belonging to or owing to or by the
Company or paid, received, sold or purchased in the course of the Company's
business, and all of such other transactions, matters and things relating to the
business of the Company as are usually entered in books of account kept by
persons engaged in a business of a like kind and character. In addition, the
Company shall keep all records required to be kept pursuant to the Act. Each
Member shall, at reasonable times, have free access thereto for the purpose of
inspecting or copying same. Any records maintained by the Company in the

-24-

regular course of its business, including its Unit ledger, books of account and
minute books, if any, may be kept on, or be in the form of, punch cards,
magnetic tape, photographs, microphotographs or any other information storage
device, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible
form within a reasonable time. The Company shall so convert any records so kept
upon the request of any Person entitled to inspect the same. The Company shall
promptly furnish TRS with copies of all executed documents, leases, agreements
and material correspondence relating to the Properties.

     5.3 REPORTS AND STATEMENTS. The Company shall, at its expense, prepare and
distribute, or cause to be prepared and distributed, to the Members the
following reports and other items:

          (a) Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal quarter (other
     than the fourth quarter of each Fiscal Year), commencing with the first
     quarter of 2003, an unaudited report (prepared in accordance with generally
     accepted accounting principles consistently applied except for the absence
     of footnotes) setting forth a balance sheet of the Company as of the end of
     such fiscal quarter, an income statement of the Company for such fiscal
     quarter and the year-to-date, a statement of cash flows of the Company for
     such fiscal quarter and the year-to-date and an explanation of any Material
     Variances for such quarter.

          (b) Not later than 90 days after the end of each Fiscal Year, a report
     (prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
     consistently applied and including appropriate footnote disclosure) setting
     forth a balance sheet of the Company as of the end of such Fiscal Year, an
     income statement of the Company for such Fiscal Year, a statement of cash
     flows of the Company for such Fiscal Year, a statement of changes in
     Members' Company capital for such Fiscal Year and an explanation of any
     Material Variances for such Fiscal Year. The annual financial statements
     referred to above shall be accompanied by a report of the Auditors stating
     that an audit of such financial statements (the "Annual Audit") has been
     made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, stating the
     opinion of the Auditors in respect of the financial statements and the
     accounting principles and practices reflected therein and as to the
     consistency of the application of the accounting principles, identifying
     any matters as to which the Auditors take exception and stating, to the
     extent practicable, the effect of each such exception on such financial
     statements.

          (c) Not later than 30 days after the end of each calendar month,
     commencing with the first full calendar month following the date hereof, an
     unaudited report (prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
     principles except for the absence of footnotes) setting forth a balance
     sheet of the Company as of the end of such calendar month and an income
     statement for such calendar month and a report of leasing activity, tenant
     sales, tenant accounts receivable and development activity (other than
     tenant build-out work) for such month.

Such reports shall be substantially in the forms previously delivered by GGPLP
to TRS unless the Board determines otherwise.

-25-

5.4 TAX MATTERS MEMBER. GGPLP is hereby designated as the "Tax Matters"
Member for the Company, which has the meaning of "tax matters partner" under
Section 6231(a)(7) of the Code.

     5.5 TAX ELECTIONS AND RETURNS. The Tax Matters Member shall, from time to
time, make such tax elections on behalf of the Company as it deems necessary or
desirable in its discretion to carry out the business of the Company or the
purposes of this Agreement, including elections under Section 754 of the Code.
The Tax Matters Member shall cause the Company accountants to prepare and file
federal, state and local tax returns for the Company on a timely basis, and
shall furnish copies thereof to the Members with required partnership schedules
showing allocations of book and tax items.

     5.6 INTERIM ACCOUNTING. The Tax Matters Member may cause the books of
account of the Company to be closed on an interim basis when the Tax Matters
Member deems such closing necessary or appropriate under the circumstances,
including a transfer of Units causing a termination of the Company for tax
purposes.

                                   ARTICLE VI

                         GOVERNANCE; BOARD OF DIRECTORS

     6.1 MANAGING MEMBER. The Managing Member shall be responsible for the
management of the business and affairs of the Company and the Subsidiaries and
shall manage the Company and the Subsidiaries (or cause the Subsidiaries to be
managed) in accordance with this Agreement, the Subsidiaries' respective
organizational documents, the Company's contractual obligations, the
Subsidiaries' contractual obligations and applicable law. Except as otherwise
expressly herein provided, the Managing Member shall have, and is hereby
granted, full, complete and exclusive power, authority and discretion under all
circumstances to manage the business of the Company and to take all actions for
and on behalf of the Company and in its name as the Managing Member shall, in
its sole and absolute discretion, deem necessary, desirable or appropriate to
carry out the purposes for which the Company was organized (including actions in
respect the Company's ownership interests in the Subsidiaries), and the approval
of no other Member or other Person shall be required in connection therewith.
The Managing Member shall have the power and authority to sign for and/or bind
the Company if the approval of the Board has been obtained or is not required
for the taking of such action; and, except as provided in Sections
6.2(e)(xviii), 8.4(a) and 10.2(b), no other Member shall have the power or
authority to sign for and/or bind the Company under any circumstance.

     6.2 MATTERS RELATING TO THE BOARD.

          (a) Number of Directors. The total number of directors constituting
     the Board shall at all times equal four (4).

          (b) Designation of Directors.

               (i) The Board shall at all times consist of two (2) directors
     designated by GGPLP or any Transferee of GGPLP's Units pursuant to a
     Transfer made in accordance with this Agreement (the "GGPLP Directors") and
     two (2) directors

-26-

designated by TRS or any Transferee of TRS' Units pursuant to a Transfer
     made in accordance with this Agreement (the "TRS Directors"). To carry out
     the provisions of this Section 6.2, each Member hereby designates the
     Persons set forth opposite its name below as directors of the Company, to
     serve until each such director's successor has been designated:

Designating Member   Directors
- ------------------   ---------
                    
GGPLP                John Bucksbaum
                     Robert A. Michaels

TRS                  Mark Kirincich
                     Daniel Ault

(ii) No director may be removed from office except by the Member
     that designated such director. The Member that designated a director shall
     have the right, with or without cause, to remove such director from the
     Board by providing written notice thereof to the other Member; and, in the
     event of a vacancy in a director position, the Member that designated the
     director who previously held such vacant position shall have the right to
     designate a replacement by providing written notice thereof to the other
     Member.

          (c) Actions by Directors.

               (i) Quorum. At all meetings of the Board, a quorum for the
     transaction of business shall consist of one director designated by each
     Member. In case at any meeting of the Board a quorum shall not be present,
     the members of the Board present may adjourn the meeting from time to time
     until a quorum shall be present.

               (ii) Regular Action. When action is to be taken by vote of the
     Board, each member of the Board shall be accorded one vote. Each and every
     action taken by vote of the Board shall be authorized by the majority
     affirmative vote of the directors present at a duly constituted meeting at
     which a quorum is present and acting throughout; provided, however, no
     action shall be authorized without the affirmative vote of at least one of
     the TRS Directors and at least one of the GGPLP Directors.

          (d) Meetings of the Board; Etc.

               (i) The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may
     determine, and, if so determined, no notice need be given. Any failure to
     so meet shall not give rise to any presumption or inference that the
     Members shall have any liability for the obligations of the Company.

               (ii) In addition, the Board shall meet upon the request of any
     Board member conveyed in writing to each other Board member, at a time no
     fewer than two (2) and no more than twenty-one (21) business days after
     such notice is given, and at the Company's principal offices or such other
     place as is determined by the Board.

-27-

(iii) Meetings of the Board shall be presided over by the GGPLP
     Director who is the most senior ranking officer of GG Properties present at
     such meeting or, in the absence of any officer of GG Properties, by a
     chairman chosen at the meeting. The chairman shall choose a Person to act
     as Secretary.

               (iv) Whenever notice is required to be given to the Board members
     under any provision of this Agreement, a written waiver thereof, signed by
     the Person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated
     therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a Person at a
     meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when
     the Person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the
     beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the
     meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Attendance at any meeting may
     be by conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of
     which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each another.
     Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular
     or special meeting of the Board need be specified in any written waiver of
     notice.

               (v) Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting
     of the Board may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board
     consent thereto in writing, and any written consent shall be filed with the
     minutes of proceedings of the Board.

          (e) Actions Requiring Board Approval. In addition to the other actions
     requiring Board approval as expressly provided herein and unless otherwise
     approved herein, the Company shall not take, or permit any Subsidiary to
     take, any of the following actions without the approval of the Board (but
     no other actions shall require the approval of the Board):

               (i) Sale, exchange or other disposition of all or a portion of
     any Company or Subsidiary real property or equity interest in any
     Subsidiary, the lease of all or substantially all of any Property (other
     than a sale, exchange, lease or other transfer among the Company and/or its
     Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries or the lease of individual spaces at any
     Property), or the lending of money by the Company or its Subsidiaries
     (other than loans between the Company and any Wholly-Owned Subsidiary or
     among Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries and the extension of credit in the ordinary
     course of business, including the granting of inducements to tenants in the
     form of loans that are consistent with applicable Leasing Guidelines);

               (ii) Approval of Annual Business Plans as provided in Section
     6.3;

               (iii) During any Fiscal Year or other period, expenditure by the
     Company and its Subsidiaries of amounts for such Fiscal Year or other
     period in respect of any Property (other than expenditures for
     Nondiscretionary Items or expenditures expressly authorized elsewhere in
     this Agreement or pursuant to another section or subsection hereof,
     including the schedules attached hereto, which may be made without
     restriction) in excess of 110% of the total expenditures set forth in the
     approved Annual Business Plan for such year or other period in respect of
     such Property; provided, however, that for the remainder of 2002 and
     subject to the other paragraphs of this

-28-

Section 6.2(e), the Company shall operate, and shall cause the Subsidiaries
     to operate, the Properties in a manner which is consistent with the
     operation by GGPLP of its properties generally, and the Company and its
     Subsidiaries may make such expenditures as are consistent with the
     operation of the Properties in such manner without the consent of the Board
     (but the making of capital expenditures during the remainder of 2002 shall
     require the approval of the Board unless they are in connection with tenant
     leasing or constitute Nondiscretionary Items);

               (iv) Incurrence by the Company and/or its Subsidiaries of
     Indebtedness which, together with Indebtedness previously incurred by the
     Company and/or the Subsidiaries, exceeds (A) $500,000 as to any Subsidiary
     and (B) the product of $500,000 and the number of Properties at the time of
     such incurrence as to the Company and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole;
     provided, however, that (X) the provisions of this paragraph shall not
     apply to the incurrence of the Acquisition Financing (or the exercise of
     extension options in connection therewith), or the incurrence of the
     Extended Term Financing and (Y) any Indebtedness referred to in the
     preceding clause (X) or the incurrence of which has been approved by the
     Board shall not be counted in determining whether the limits contained in
     this paragraph have been exceeded;

               (v) The restructuring, settlement or prepayment of any
     Indebtedness that required the approval of the Board pursuant to clause
     (iv) of this Section 6.2(e);

               (vi) Mortgage of or grant of security interests in Company or
     Subsidiary assets, including the equity interests in any Subsidiary;
     provided, however, that (A) the provisions of this paragraph shall not
     apply to the grant of a mortgage and/or security interests in connection
     with the Acquisition Financing or the Extended Term Financing and (B) the
     incurrence of a personal property lease obligation permitted under the
     other provisions hereof shall not be deemed to be the granting of a
     mortgage or security interest in Company or Subsidiary assets;

               (vii) Execution by the Company or any Subsidiary of a reciprocal
     easement agreement or individual lease agreement for leased premises in
     excess of 15,000 square feet and the incurrence of all related costs (or
     the extension or termination of, or any amendment to or modification of the
     material economic terms of, any such agreement);

               (viii) The conduct by the Company and its Subsidiaries of any
     business other than the Business;

               (ix) Approval of leases not in compliance with the leasing
     guidelines set forth in the applicable Annual Business Plan;

               (x) Decisions to maintain Company and Subsidiary cash reserves in
     excess of the amount of reserves that the Managing Member otherwise is
     permitted to maintain hereunder;

               (xi) Issuance of additional Units or other equity interests in
     the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than issuances of equity
     interests in any

-29-

Subsidiary to the Company or to any Wholly-Owned Subsidiary) or any call
     for additional Capital Contributions pursuant to Article XII;

               (xii) Merger, consolidation, liquidation, dissolution,
     recapitalization or other similar corporate organizational change in
     respect of the Company or any Subsidiary; provided, however, that the
     provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to a merger or consolidation
     of a Subsidiary with or into the Company and/or one or more Wholly-Owned
     Subsidiaries, a liquidation and/or dissolution of a Subsidiary in
     connection with which the Property of such Subsidiary is transferred to the
     Company or to any Wholly-Owned Subsidiary or the recapitalization or other
     similar organizational change in respect of any Subsidiary that does not
     adversely affect any Member or the power of the Board hereunder;

               (xiii) Execution of any property management agreement or other
     agreement for the provision of services described in Section 7.1 (other
     than the management and/or other agreement or agreements which may be
     executed pursuant to Section 7.1), the amendment, extension or termination
     of any property management agreement or other agreement for the provision
     of the services described in Section 7.1 (including the management or other
     agreement or agreements that may be executed pursuant to Section 7.1) or
     the assignment of any such management or other agreement other than to any
     Transferee of the Units held by GGPLP or any Affiliate of such Transferee;

               (xiv) Acquisition by the Company or any Subsidiary of any real
     property or option to acquire real property;

               (xv) The taking of any action that would constitute a Bankruptcy
     Event in respect of the Company or any Subsidiary;

               (xvi) Any modification to the organizational documents of any
     Subsidiary which would adversely affect any Member or the power of the
     Board hereunder; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
     shall not apply to the modifications described in Schedule 6.2(e)(iv)
     hereof;

               (xvii) Undertaking by the Company or any Subsidiary of an
     obligation to expend an amount in any year for which there is not yet an
     Annual Business Plan in excess of the amount that could be expended
     therefor pursuant to Section 6.3 if there were no Annual Business Plan for
     such year;

               (xviii) Entering into any transaction by the Company or any
     Subsidiary with the Managing Member or an Affiliate thereof, other than a
     transaction that (A) does not involve the incurrence of Indebtedness, (B)
     is entered into upon terms that are no less favorable to the Company or
     such Subsidiary than the Company or such Subsidiary would obtain in a
     comparable arm's-length transaction and (C) is cancellable in the event
     that the Properties are sold or such Managing Member no longer owns Units;
     provided, however, that (X) the provisions of this paragraph shall not
     apply to the arrangements described in Article VII and elsewhere in this
     Agreement, including the Schedules hereto and (Y) with respect to any
     agreement to which this paragraph applies and

-30-

notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, TRS shall have
     the right to act on behalf of the Company or the applicable Subsidiary
     without approval of the Board in enforcing any rights of the Company or
     such Subsidiary under such agreement;

               (xix) Incurrence or assumption of any Guarantee by the Company or
     any Subsidiary (other than the incurrence of any Guarantee by the Company
     or any Subsidiary in connection with the Acquisition Financing or the
     Extended Term Financing or the incurrence of any Guarantee by any
     Subsidiary of the obligations of another Wholly-Owned Subsidiary);

               (xx) Commencement of litigation against any Major Occupant or
     lender, litigation in which the amount in dispute is more than $100,000 and
     litigation in which the costs of defense or prosecution thereof are
     reasonably expected to exceed $25,000 and any material action taken in
     connection therewith, including the settlement thereof; provided, however,
     that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to litigation
     involving disputes over common area maintenance charges or the like or
     litigation which is covered by insurance (regardless of whether there is a
     deductible); and

               (xxi) Material deviation from the insurance requirements
     described in Schedule 6.2(xx).

     The Members hereby approve the Acquisition Transactions (which shall not
require Board approval), and the Company shall pay (and/or cause the
Subsidiaries to pay) the costs of the types described on Schedule 6.2 incurred
by the Company, the Subsidiaries and/or GGPLP in connection with the
consummation of the Acquisition Transactions (the "Acquisition Costs").
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, (X) except as
provided in clause (Z) of this paragraph, TRS shall not permit the TRS Directors
to unreasonably withhold or delay their approval of any new Property
Indebtedness proposed by the Managing Member or the grant of any mortgage or
security interest or the making by the Company or any Subsidiary of a Guarantee
in connection therewith, (Y) the fact that the incurrence of such new Property
Indebtedness, together with the Retained Debt, would result in a loan to value
ratio of no more than 65% (60% during such time as the incurrence of new
Retained Debt is prohibited pursuant to Section 10.6(c)) on a Company-wide basis
does not constitute a reasonable basis upon which to object to such new Property
Indebtedness and (Z) the TRS Directors may object to the incurrence of new
Property Indebtedness if the incurrence of such new Property Indebtedness,
together with the Retained Debt, would result in a loan to value ratio of more
than 65% (60% during such time as the incurrence of new Retained Debt is
prohibited pursuant to Section 10.6(c)) on a Company-wide basis. The Company
shall permit TRS to review the loan documents relating to any loan that is part
of the Acquisition Financing or the Extended Term Financing prior to the
consummation of such loan, whether the consummation thereof occurs at Closing or
thereafter and shall consider, but shall not be obligated to accept, the
comments of TRS and/or its counsel thereon.

-31-

6.3 ANNUAL BUSINESS PLANS.

          (a) On or before November 15 of each year, the Managing Member shall
     cause to be prepared and submitted to the Board for approval a proposed
     annual business plan (a "Proposed Annual Business Plan") for the following
     year (including an annual capital budget, operating budget and leasing
     guidelines for each Property, which leasing guidelines shall be on a
     space-by-space basis and only shall be required to specify figures for
     minimum square foot base rentals, maximum aggregate tenant inducement
     costs, minimum and maximum lease terms and standards for other material
     economic terms (as approved by the Board, an "Annual Business Plan").
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Managing Member shall not be obligated
     to deliver the Proposed Annual Business Plan for 2003 until January 1,
     2003. Each Proposed Annual Business Plan also may itemize any transaction
     or matter requiring approval of the Board pursuant to Section 6.2(e) (other
     than Section 6.2(e)(ii)).

          (b) If the Board shall consider for adoption a Proposed Annual
     Business Plan for any year and shall fail to adopt it in its entirety
     because of disagreement as to one or more items although the Board shall
     agree on other items, then the Board shall adopt as the Annual Business
     Plan for such year such Proposed Annual Business Plan exclusive of the
     items as to which there is disagreement. If there is disagreement over any
     item in such Proposed Annual Business Plan or there is not yet an Annual
     Business Plan for such year, then the Company and the Subsidiaries may,
     until the disagreement over such item is resolved or there is an Annual
     Business Plan for such year, as the case may be, (i) expend amounts for
     Nondiscretionary Items and (ii) except as to items which are included in
     the Annual Business Plan, if any, for such year, (A) expend 110% of the
     amount budgeted for each item of operating expenditure in the Annual
     Business Plan for the previous Fiscal Year (or, in the event such previous
     year is 2002, 110% of the amount expended during all of 2002 therefor by
     the Company, the Subsidiaries and/or the prior owners of the Properties)
     and (B) expend such amounts in connection with leasing (including the
     making of capital expenditures) as is equal to the average of the amounts
     expended by the Company, the Subsidiaries and the prior owners of the
     Properties therefor during the five immediately preceding calendar years
     and otherwise lease the Properties in a manner consistent with the leasing
     of the Properties during the previous calendar year (and such amounts shall
     be deemed to be included in the applicable Annual Business Plan).

          (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein
     (including the provisions of Section 6.2), expenditures for
     Nondiscretionary Items shall not be limited by amounts set forth in an
     Annual Business Plan or by any other provisions hereof.

          (d) The Managing Member acknowledges that the fiscal year of TRS is
     July 1-June 30, and the Managing Member agrees that, in order to assist TRS
     in preparing its budgets and on or before March 1 of each year, the
     Managing Member shall deliver to TRS projections for the Company for the
     TRS fiscal year commencing on the following July 1.

-32-

6.4 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.

          (a) To the extent consistent with the other provisions of this
     Agreement, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall endeavor to conduct their
     affairs in a manner that will not cause the Company or any Subsidiary to be
     deemed to be, and will not make any investment which could cause it to
     become, an "investment company" for purposes of the Investment Company Act.

          (b) The Company shall at all times following the date hereof qualify,
     and each Member shall cause the Company to operate in a manner so that it
     will at all times hereafter qualify as an "operating company" under Pension
     and Welfare Benefits Administration Regulation Section 2510.3-101 (the
     "Plan Asset Regulations") issued by the Department of Labor under Title I
     of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as the same may be
     amended from time to time ("ERISA") as long as equity participation by
     Benefit Plan Investors (as defined in the Plan Asset Regulations) is
     "significant," as defined therein.

          (c) The Company and each of its Subsidiaries shall endeavor to operate
     its business and structure its investments in a manner so as to minimize,
     to the extent reasonably practicable and to the extent not inconsistent
     with the best interests of the Company or the provisions of this Agreement,
     the amount of "unrelated business taxable income" within the meaning of
     Section 512 of the Code ("UBTI") to any Member who is subject to tax on
     UBTI pursuant to Section 511(a)(2) of the Code.

     6.5 RIGHT OF PUBLIC TO RELY ON AUTHORITY OF THE MEMBERS. Nothing herein
contained shall impose any obligations on any Person or firm doing business with
the Company to inquire as to whether or not the Managing Member has exceeded its
authority in executing any contract, lease, mortgage, deed or other instrument
on behalf of the Company, and any such third person shall be fully protected in
relying upon such authority.

     6.6 WAIVER AND INDEMNIFICATION.

          (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
     Agreement (including the Schedules attached hereto), neither of the Members
     (including the Managing Member) nor any Person acting on its behalf
     pursuant hereto (including the Board members and GGMI), shall be liable,
     responsible or accountable in damages or otherwise to the Company, any
     Subsidiary or to any Member for any acts or omissions performed or omitted
     to be performed by it (or any Person acting on its behalf, including the
     Board members and GGMI) in connection with the management of the Company
     and/or the Subsidiaries or the performance of services for them or any of
     them and within the scope of the authority conferred upon them by this
     Agreement, the Board and/or the Act, provided that the Member's or such
     other Person's conduct or omission to act was taken in good faith and in
     the belief that such conduct or omission was in the best interests of the
     Company and/or the Subsidiaries and, provided further, that the Member or
     such other Person shall not be guilty of intentional misconduct or gross
     negligence (and the engagement in conduct permitted by Section 12.3 shall
     be deemed to have met such standards). The Company shall, and hereby does,
     indemnify and hold harmless the Members (including the Managing Member) and
     their Affiliates and any individual

-33-

acting on their behalf (including the Board members and GGMI) from any
     loss, damage, claims or liability, including reasonable attorneys' fees and
     expenses, incurred by them (i) by reason of any act performed or omitted to
     be performed by them or any Person acting on their behalf (including the
     Board members and GGMI) in connection with the management of, or provision
     of services for, the Company and/or its Subsidiaries and/or any
     predecessors or successors thereof or thereto and in accordance with the
     standard of conduct set forth above or (ii) in enforcing the provisions of
     this indemnity.

          (b) Any Person entitled to indemnification under this Agreement shall
     be entitled to receive, upon application therefor (such application to
     include (i) a written affirmation of such person's good faith belief that
     he or she met the standard of conduct necessary for entitlement to
     indemnification by the Company and (ii) his or her written agreement to
     immediately repay such amount if it should ultimately be determined that he
     or she has not met such standard), advances to cover the reasonable costs
     of defending any proceeding against such Person; provided, however, that
     such advances shall be immediately repaid to the Company, without interest,
     if such Person is found by a court of competent jurisdiction upon entry of
     a final nonappealable judgment not to be entitled to such indemnification.

          (c) The indemnity obligations under this Section 6.6 shall be in
     addition to any liability which the Company otherwise may have to any
     Person entitled to receive indemnification under this Agreement, shall
     extend upon the same terms and conditions to the stockholders, officers,
     directors, partners, employees and controlling Persons of any such Person,
     and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successors,
     assigns, heirs, and personal representatives of the Company, any Member,
     and any such other Person. The foregoing provisions shall survive any
     termination of this Agreement or dissolution of the Company.

          (d) The Company and the other Members shall be indemnified and held
     harmless by each Member from and against any and all claims, demands,
     liabilities, costs, damages, expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees
     and disbursements) and causes of action of any nature whatsoever arising
     out of or incidental to the fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence
     of such Member or any Affiliate of such Member.

                                  ARTICLE VII

             PROPERTY MANAGEMENT AND OTHER SERVICES AND COMPENSATION
                     THEREFOR; COMPANY OPERATING COSTS; ETC.

     7.1 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT AND OTHER SERVICES AND COMPENSATION THEREFOR. So
long as any of GGPLP, a Permitted Transferee of GGPLP or a Transferee of the
Units issued to GGPLP pursuant hereto (other than TRS) owns Units, GGPLP (or
such Transferee) shall provide, or cause its Affiliates to provide, to the
Company and the Subsidiaries property management, leasing, development and
administrative services as described on Schedule 7.1-1 and the provider of such
services shall receive as compensation therefor the fees set forth on Schedule
7.1-2; provided, however, that the foregoing only shall apply to a Transferee of
Units who has acquired such Units in accordance with the terms hereof. The
Company may enter into one or more agreements with GGPLP (or any such
Transferee) and/or its Affiliates relating to the

-34-

provision of such services to the Company and payment of such compensation to
GGPLP (or any such Transferee) and its Affiliates and containing other customary
provisions. Such agreements shall be terminable by the Company without penalty
in the event that TRS and/or the Company acquires all of the Units issued to
GGPLP pursuant hereto. Such agreements are subject to the terms of this
Agreement, and any term or provision of this Agreement that is contrary to or
inconsistent with any term or provision of any such agreement shall,
notwithstanding such agreement, govern and control the matter subject thereto.

     7.2 COMPANY OPERATING COSTS. Subject to the other terms of this Agreement,
all costs and expenses incurred in connection with (a) the management and/or
operation of the Company and/or any Subsidiary or (b) the ownership, operation,
management and/or development of, or other actions taken in respect of, the
properties of the Company and/or any Subsidiary shall be paid by the Company
and/or the Subsidiaries or, if paid or incurred by the Managing Member or any of
its Affiliates, the Company shall (or shall cause the applicable Subsidiary to)
reimburse the Managing Member or its Affiliates therefor.

                                  ARTICLE VIII

                           TRANSFERS OF COMPANY UNITS

     8.1 TRANSFERS. Except as expressly provided herein, no Member may Transfer
its Units without the consent of the Board. The Company shall not reflect on its
books any Transfer of Units to any Person except in accordance with this
Agreement, and any Transfer of Units not permitted by the provisions of this
Agreement shall be null and void ab initio. There shall be no Transfer of
ownership interests in any Person which directly or indirectly through another
Person owns Units, if after giving effect to such Transfer, such Person shall no
longer be a Permitted Transferee of GGPLP or TRS (or the ultimate owner of any
Transferee thereof); provided, however, that the Transfer of ownership interests
or issuance of new ownership interests in GG Properties, GGPLP, GGPLP L.L.C.,
TRS or any such ultimate owner shall not be prohibited or otherwise restricted
hereunder.

     8.2 TRANSFERS TO PERMITTED TRANSFEREES. Subject to the provisions of
Section 8.5, either Member shall have the right, without the approval of the
Board or the other Member and without being subject to the provisions of Section
8.3, to Transfer all, but not less than all, of its Units to a Permitted
Transferee of such Member.

     8.3 RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL.

          (a) If a Member (the "Selling Member") desires to sell or otherwise
     transfer all, but not less than all, of the Units of the Selling Member to
     a third party (other than an Affiliate of the Selling Member or a Person
     that would not meet the requirements of Section 8.5(c) or (d), as
     applicable, in which case the proposed Transfer would be prohibited as
     provided therein) for cash, the Selling Member shall give the other Member
     (the "Recipient Member") written notice (the "Sale Notice") of all the
     terms, provisions and conditions with respect to such proposed sale or
     other transfer, including a copy of the offer or letter of intent, if any
     (but no Sale Notice may be delivered before the Trigger Date). Any such
     proposed sale or other transfer must be pursuant to a bona fide written

-35-

offer from a third party (other than an Affiliate of the Selling Member or
     a Person that would not meet the requirements of Section 8.5(c) or (d), as
     applicable).

          (b) The Recipient Member shall have a period of 30 days from the date
     of its receipt of the Sale Notice to accept such offer, on the same terms,
     provisions and conditions stated in such written offer (except as otherwise
     set forth herein), which acceptance must be in writing and must be given by
     the Recipient Member prior to the expiration of such 30 day period. Any
     purported acceptance made orally shall be ineffective, and any purported
     acceptance which varies the terms of such offer shall be deemed to be a
     rejection thereof for all purposes. If the Recipient Member accepts such
     offer in accordance with the foregoing provisions, the Recipient Member
     shall be bound to purchase the Units of the Selling Member in accordance
     with such offer (except as otherwise provided herein) and the Selling
     Member shall be bound to sell its Units to the Recipient Member on such
     terms.

          (c) The closing of the purchase by the Recipient Member shall be held
     at the principal offices of the Company no earlier than the sixtieth day
     and no later than the 120th day following the giving of the acceptance
     pursuant to Section 8.3(b). The purchasing Member may set-off against the
     purchase price owing to the Transferor Member any liquidated amounts owing
     by the Transferor Member to the Company, any Subsidiary or the purchasing
     Member or its Affiliates, including any amounts that have been determined
     to be owing in an arbitration proceeding held in accordance with the
     provisions of Section 13.11, or, as the case may be, the purchase price
     payable to a Transferor Member shall be increased by any liquidated amounts
     owing to the Transferor Member from the Company, any Subsidiary or the
     purchasing Member or its Affiliates, including any amounts that have been
     determined to be owing in an arbitration proceeding held in accordance with
     the provisions of Section 13.11.

          (d) In the event that the Recipient Member delivers written notice of
     rejection to the Selling Member or in the event that the Recipient Member
     fails to accept the offer as to all of the Selling Member's Units in the
     manner and time required by this Section 8.3, the offer made by the Selling
     Member shall be deemed to have been rejected by the Recipient Member and
     the Selling Member shall, subject to the provisions of Section 8.3(e) and
     Section 8.5, be free to sell, transfer, assign or convey its Units to the
     third party named in the Sale Notice on the terms, provisions or conditions
     set forth in the Sale Notice or to such third party on terms and conditions
     not less favorable to the Selling Member.

          (e) In the event that the sale of the Units to the third party is not
     consummated as provided above on or before 60 days after the closing date
     specified in the Sale Notice, no sale, transfer, assignment or conveyance
     of Units may be made unless the provisions of this Section 8.3 are again
     complied with.

-36-

8.4 UNPERMITTED TRANSFERS.

          (a) In the case of any Transfer of Units in connection with a
     foreclosure, Bankruptcy Event, forfeiture, court order or by any reason
     other than by a voluntary act on the part of a Member or any Transfer of
     Units by a Member in violation of the terms of this Agreement (other than a
     Transfer in connection with the foreclosure or other realization on the
     Units of GGPLP pursuant to the security interest granted under Section
     10.5) (each, an "Unpermitted Transfer"), the Company (or its assignee as
     provided below) shall have the right to purchase such Units pursuant to and
     on and subject to the terms and conditions of this Section 8.4.
     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any action by
     the Company under this Section 8.4 only shall require the action of the
     non-Transferring Member. Upon the Unpermitted Transfer of any Units of any
     Member, such Member and the Person to whom such Units shall have been
     Transferred (the "Unpermitted Transferee") shall promptly (but in no event
     later than two (2) business days after such Unpermitted Transfer is
     effected) furnish written notice to the Company indicating that the
     Unpermitted Transfer has occurred, specifying the name, address and
     identity of the Unpermitted Transferee, and giving a detailed description
     of the circumstances giving rise to, and stating the legal basis for, such
     Unpermitted Transfer. Upon the receipt of such notice or upon discovery of
     the Unpermitted Transfer by the non-Transferring Member or the Company, the
     Value of the Units of the Unpermitted Transferee shall be determined and
     for thirty (30) days after such determination, the Company shall have the
     right (exercisable by notice given to the Unpermitted Transferee within
     such thirty (30) day period), which may be assigned to any other Person
     approved by the Board, to purchase, and upon the due exercise of such right
     the Unpermitted Transferee shall have the obligation to sell, all (but not
     less than all) of the Units acquired by the Unpermitted Transferee for a
     purchase price equal to the product of 70% (100% in the case of a Transfer
     in connection with a Bankruptcy Event) and the Value of such Units (the
     "Unpermitted Transfer Purchase Price").

          (b) Any Unpermitted Transferee and the Company (or its assignee) shall
     mutually determine a closing date with respect to any exercise of the
     purchase right set forth in Section 8.4(a) (the "Unpermitted Transfer
     Closing Date") which, subject to the last sentence of Section 8.4(c), shall
     not be more than sixty (60) days after the expiration of the 30-day period
     applicable to such purchase. Such closing shall be held at 10:00 a.m.,
     local time, at the office of the Company's counsel, or at such other time
     or place as the parties mutually agree.

          (c) On the Unpermitted Transfer Closing Date, (i) the Unpermitted
     Transferee shall deliver certificates, if any, representing the Units being
     sold, together with duly executed assignments in form sufficient to
     Transfer such Units to the Company (or its assignee) free and clear of any
     Liens other than a Lien in favor of any Company and/or Subsidiary lender
     (and such Unpermitted Transferee hereby represents and warrants that such
     Units shall, immediately prior to such sale, be so free and clear), (ii)
     subject to the provisions of Section 9.2(c) (which are made applicable
     pursuant to the last sentence of this paragraph), the Company (or its
     assignee) shall pay to the Unpermitted Transferee the Unpermitted Transfer
     Purchase Price for such Units in immediately available funds or, at the
     election of the Company, by delivery of a promissory note providing for
     payment of the Unpermitted Transfer Purchase Price in three equal annual
     installments,

-37-

without interest, commencing on the first anniversary of the Unpermitted
     Transfer Closing Date, and (iii) each of the Company (or its assignee) and
     the Unpermitted Transferee shall execute and deliver such other documents
     and take such other actions as the other reasonably may request in order to
     consummate such purchase and sale. The provisions of Sections 9.2(c) and
     (e) shall apply to a purchase and sale of Units pursuant to this Section
     8.4.

          (d) In the event that, as the result of a purchase and sale pursuant
     to this Section 8.4, any Member owns less than two-thirds of the Units
     issued or Transferred to it pursuant hereto, (i) such Member shall no
     longer have the right to designate directors pursuant to this Agreement or
     to approve matters pursuant to Section 6.2(e), (ii) the directors
     designated by such Member shall be deemed to have resigned and (iii) if
     such Member is the Managing Member, such Member shall no longer have the
     right to be the Managing Member, to provide (or cause to be provided) the
     services described in Section 7.1 or to receive (or direct that its
     Affiliates receive) the compensation therefor, and (iv) and the other
     Member shall be the Managing Member and have the right to provide (or cause
     the provision of) such services and to receive (or direct that its
     Affiliates receive) the compensation therefor.

     8.5 OTHER TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained herein:

          (a) No Units may be sold or transferred unless they are first
     registered under the 33 Act and applicable state securities laws or an
     exemption from such registration is available. Each Transferring Member
     shall, not later than the effective date of such Transfer, execute and
     deliver or cause to be executed and delivered to each Member, at the sole
     cost and expense of the Transferring Member, (i) a counterpart of the
     instrument of Transfer; (ii) a certificate stating that such Transfer was
     made in accordance with this Agreement, the Certificate of Formation and
     all applicable laws and regulations; and (iii) unless waived in writing by
     the Members holding 75% or more of the Units not held by the Transferring
     Member, a written opinion, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to
     such Members, from counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Members, to the
     effect that (x) either the securities proposed to be Transferred have been
     effectively registered under all applicable securities laws or such
     Transfer may be effected without the registration of such Units under any
     applicable securities laws and (y) the Transferee has the legal right,
     power and capacity to own the Units proposed to be Transferred. All
     reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Company in connection with
     any Transfer shall be paid by the Transferring Member or the Transferee.

          (b) If any Member shall acquire additional Units and if any Transferee
     of any Member shall acquire any Units, in each case in any manner, whether
     by a permitted Transfer, operation of law or otherwise, such Units shall be
     held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and
     holding such Units such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed
     to be bound by and to comply with all of the terms and provisions of this
     Agreement. At the request of the Company or any Member, a Transferee of
     Units shall execute and deliver to the Company and each other Member an
     instrument in form reasonably satisfactory to the Company pursuant to which
     such Transferee agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions of this
     Agreement.

-38-

(c) TRS may not Transfer all or any portion of its Units, and no
     direct or indirect equity interest in TRS or any Affiliate of TRS that owns
     Units may be Transferred, to any Person if the business of such Person or
     any of its Affiliates or a portion of any such business is the development,
     ownership or management of shopping malls (other than institutional
     investors which own shopping centers or interests therein but do not,
     directly or through Affiliates, act as property managers of shopping
     centers).

          (d) GGPLP may not Transfer all or any portion of its Units, and no
     direct or indirect equity interest in any Affiliate of GGPLP that owns
     Units may be Transferred to any Person that is not a Major Center Owner or
     a Permitted Transferee of a Major Center Owner, provided, however, that the
     Transfer of ownership interests or issuance of new ownership interests in
     GG Properties, GGPLP or GGPLP L.L.C. shall not be prohibited or otherwise
     restricted hereunder.

          (e) No Transfer of Units pursuant to this Agreement (other than
     pursuant to Section 8.3 or 8.4 or Article IX) may be made if such Transfer
     would result in constructive termination of the Company pursuant to Code
     Section 708(b)(1)(B).

          (f) No Transfer of Units pursuant to this Agreement shall release or
     be deemed to release the Transferor of such Units from its obligations
     under this Agreement (but a Transferor of Units pursuant to Section 8.3 or
     Article IX shall be released from its obligations hereunder other than
     those that relate to the period prior to such Transfer).

                                   ARTICLE IX

                                 BUY-SELL RIGHT

     9.1 BUY-SELL NOTICE. Each Member shall have the right (the "Buy-Sell
Right") to deliver a written notice (the "Buy-Sell Notice") to the other Member
at any time on or after the Trigger Date. The Member that delivers a Buy-Sell
Notice shall be referred to as the "Offering Member" and the other Member shall
be referred to as the "Offeree Member." The Buy-Sell Notice shall contain a
price per Unit designated by the Offering Member and shall state that the
Offering Member is invoking the Buy-Right.

     9.2 RIGHT OF OFFEREE MEMBER TO PURCHASE OFFERING MEMBER'S UNITS.

          (a) The Buy-Sell Notice shall constitute an irrevocable offer by the
     Offering Member to sell to the Offeree Member all of its Units at the
     purchase price per Unit specified in the Buy-Sell Notice and upon the other
     terms contained herein.

          (b) The Offeree Member may exercise such right by providing written
     notice of such exercise to the Offering Member, delivered no later than 60
     days after the Buy-Sell Notice is given (each such notice, a "Buy-Sell
     Response Notice") and, in the event of such exercise, the Offeree Member
     shall purchase all of the Units held by the Offering Member and the
     Offering Member shall sell such Units to the Offeree Member at the price
     specified and otherwise upon the terms set forth herein. If the Offeree
     Member shall not deliver a Buy-Sell Response Notice within such 60-day
     period, the Offering Member shall purchase all of the Units of the Offeree
     Member for the price set forth in

-39-

the Buy-Sell Notice and otherwise upon the terms set forth herein. The
     purchase price for any purchase and sale of Units pursuant to this Article
     IX shall be paid in cash.

          (c) Unless otherwise provided in the Buy-Sell Notice, the Transferee
     shall use reasonable best efforts to obtain, on or before the closing of
     the purchase and sale pursuant to this Article IX, the release of the
     Transferring Member and its Affiliates (collectively, the "Releasees") from
     any liability (whether as maker, guarantor or otherwise) with respect to
     the Indebtedness of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries and, following such
     closing, the Transferee shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the
     Transferring Member and the other Releasees from and against any claims,
     causes of action, losses, costs, damages and liabilities (including
     reasonable attorneys' fees) arising from or resulting out of the Company
     and/or Subsidiary Indebtedness, including Indebtedness as to which the
     Transferee Person was unable to obtain a release. The purchasing Person may
     set-off against the purchase price owing to the Transferor Member any
     liquidated amounts owing by the Transferor Member to the Company, any
     Subsidiary or the purchasing Person or its Affiliates, including any
     amounts that have been determined to be owing in an arbitration proceeding
     held in accordance with the provisions of Section 13.11, or, as the case
     may be, the purchase price payable to a Transferor Member shall be
     increased by any liquidated amounts owing to the Transferor Member from the
     Company, any Subsidiary or the purchasing Member or its Affiliates,
     including any amounts that have been determined to be owing in an
     arbitration proceeding held in accordance with the provisions of Section
     13.11.

          (d) The closing of the purchase and sale of Units pursuant to this
     Article IX shall take place at the offices of counsel to the Offering
     Member and shall occur on the date that is 60 days after the date of the
     Buy-Sell Response Notice or, if no Buy-Sell Response Notice is given, 60
     days after the last day for the giving of the Buy-Sell Response Notice (or,
     if such date is not a business day, on the next succeeding day that is a
     business day) unless the Offering Member and Offeree Member shall have
     agreed upon a different date in writing. At such closing, (i) the
     Transferring Member shall deliver to the Transferee Person the certificate
     or certificates, if any, representing the Units of the Transferring Member,
     together with duly executed assignments relating thereto in form sufficient
     to Transfer to the Transferee Person the Transferring Members' Units, free
     and clear of any Liens other than a Lien in favor of any Company and/or
     Subsidiary lender (and the Transferring Member hereby represents, warrants
     and covenants that such Units shall, immediately prior to such sale, be so
     free and clear), (ii) subject to the provisions of Section 9.2(c), the
     Transferee Person shall deliver to the Transferring Member the purchase
     price for such Units in immediately available funds and (iii) each of the
     Transferring Member and Transferee Person shall execute such other
     documents and take such other actions as shall be reasonably requested by
     the other to consummate such purchase and sale.

          (e) If any purchase pursuant to this Article IX is subject to the
     premerger notification and reporting requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino
     Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended ("HSR"), and the rules and
     regulations thereunder (the "Rules"), then each of the Offering Member and
     Offeree Member shall use its reasonable best efforts to (i) duly file with
     the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") and the Antitrust Division of the
     Department of Justice (the "Antitrust Division"), no later than the tenth

-40-

(10th) day after the date of the Buy-Sell Response Notice or, if no
     Buy-Sell Response Notice is given, the last day for the giving of the
     Buy-Sell Response Notice, fully completed premerger notification and report
     forms which include a request for early termination of the waiting period
     pursuant to Section 7A(b)(2) of HSR and Rule 803.11 thereunder, and (ii)
     respond in a timely manner to all oral or written requests from the FTC or
     the Antitrust Division for additional information or documentary materials.
     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the purchasing
     Member shall not be obligated to contest any action or decision taken by
     the FTC or the Antitrust Division challenging the consummation of the
     acquisition of Units by the purchasing Member or any of the purchasing
     Member's Affiliates or agree to the imposition of any material restriction
     on the business or the operations of the Company, any Subsidiary, the
     purchasing Member or any of the purchasing Member's Affiliates. The filing
     fees incurred in connection with the premerger notification and report
     forms shall be borne equally by the Offering Member and Offeree Member.

          If the Offering Member and the Offeree Member have complied with the
     provisions of the immediately preceding paragraph but the applicable
     waiting period under HSR with respect to the purchase of Units pursuant to
     this Article IX has not expired or been terminated by the closing date set
     forth in Section 9.2(d), then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
     Section 9.2(d), the closing date shall be extended to the fifth business
     day after all applicable waiting periods under HSR have expired or been
     terminated. From and after the original closing date set forth in this
     Section 9.2 (but subject to the second to last sentence of the first
     paragraph of this Section 9.2(e)), each of the Offering Member and Offeree
     Member shall continue to use its reasonable best efforts to cause the
     applicable waiting period under HSR to be terminated.

                                   ARTICLE X

                        MATTERS RELATING TO RETAINED DEBT

     10.1 NATURE OF RETAINED DEBT; DESIGNATION OF RETAINED DEBT; ETC.

          (a) The Managing Member shall, at the time of incurrence or assumption
     of any new Property Indebtedness and subject to the last sentence of this
     paragraph, designate such portion of the principal amount of such Property
     Indebtedness as "Retained Debt" to the extent necessary so that the
     aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Property Indebtedness (other
     than Retained Debt) does not exceed 60% of the Fair Market Value of the
     Properties at such time (but the Managing Member may not designate any
     portion of such principal amount as "Retained Debt" to the extent that the
     aggregate principal amount of all Property Indebtedness (other than then
     existing Retained Debt) would be less than 60% of the Fair Market Value of
     the Properties at such time). For purposes of this Section 10.1(a) and
     other provisions hereof (including Section 6.2 and Schedule 6.2(e)(iv))
     relating to the calculation of loan-to-value ratios, the Fair Market Value
     shall be determined by the Managing Member or, if TRS requests, by
     independent appraisers selected by the Managing Member (but the Fair Market
     Value of the Initial Properties on the date hereof shall be equal to the
     gross purchase prices in the case of the OTR Properties and $157,000,000 in
     the case of the Clackamas Property).

-41-

The Managing Member may not otherwise designate any portion of any Property
     Indebtedness as Retained Debt. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
     contained herein, the parties hereto agree that the initial Retained Debt
     is described on Schedule 10.1(a) and the Managing Member agrees that at any
     time that additional or substitute Property Indebtedness shall be incurred,
     the Retained Debt shall be adjusted so that the proportion of Retained Debt
     applicable to each Property shall be equal to said Property's proportion of
     the overall Property Indebtedness.

          (b) GGPLP shall be entitled to receive the proceeds of the Retained
     Debt (including replacement Retained Debt but excluding the initial
     Retained Debt relating to the Silver City Property) directly from the
     applicable lender(s), and such proceeds shall not be treated as having been
     received by the Company and distributed to GGPLP except as provided in
     Section 10.6(c) (but GGPLP shall cause the repayment of the principal,
     interest and prepayment premium allocable to any Retained Debt being
     replaced by any replacement Retained Debt).

          (c) For purposes hereof, the payments, costs and expenses that are
     allocable or attendant to the Retained Debt or any action taken in
     connection therewith shall be the payments, costs or expenses that would
     not have been made or incurred if such Retained Debt had not been incurred
     or such action had not been taken; provided, however, that (i) in the event
     that any Retained Debt is required to be prepaid in accordance with the
     terms hereof and such prepayment necessitates the prepayment of other
     Property Indebtedness (which prepayment of other Property Indebtedness
     otherwise would not have occurred), all of the prepayment penalties owing
     as a result thereof (but only the portion of the principal constituting
     Retained Debt) shall be deemed to be attendant or allocable to the
     prepayment of the Retained Debt (and GGPLP shall pay all of such prepayment
     penalties) and (ii) none of the costs and expenses owing to the lenders
     and/or others in connection with the initial incurrence or assumption of
     any Property Indebtedness (including the portion thereof that is designated
     as Retained Debt), including the financing fee referred to in Schedule
     7.1-2 and any origination or upfront fee, shall be deemed to be attendant
     or allocable to the Retained Debt (and the Company shall pay all of such
     costs and expenses).

          (d) For all purposes, the Retained Debt shall be treated as the
     indebtedness of GGPLP (and not indebtedness of the Company).

     10.2 PAYMENT OF RETAINED DEBT.

          (a) GGPLP shall pay the principal, interest and other amounts
     (including prepayment penalties) allocable to the Retained Debt as and when
     due and payable.

          (b) GGPLP shall (i) prepay and otherwise discharge the Retained Debt
     in respect of any Property (including payment of prepayment penalties
     allocable thereto) in the event that such Property (or any direct or
     indirect interest therein) is Transferred (other than to another
     Subsidiary) and (ii) prepay and otherwise discharge all of the Retained
     Debt (including payment of prepayment penalties allocable thereto) in the
     event that any unsecured Indebtedness of GGPLP has been accelerated by the
     lender thereof, the Company dissolves and is liquidated and wound-up or
     GGPLP Transfers all of its

-42-

Units to the other Member or Members or other Person (other than an
     Affiliate of GGPLP) pursuant to this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to
     the contrary contained herein, in lieu of the payments described in clause
     (ii) of this paragraph, GGPLP may pay to the Company an amount equal to the
     then outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Retained Debt (which
     shall be treated as a Capital Contribution of such amount to the Company),
     in which case the Company shall be deemed to have assumed the Retained Debt
     (which shall be treated as a distribution of such amount to GGPLP) and the
     Retained Debt shall cease to be Retained Debt for purposes hereof. If the
     Company uses the funds referred to in the immediately preceding sentence to
     prepay any single Property Indebtedness (with TRS having the right,
     notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, to select the
     single Property Indebtedness to be prepaid in its sole discretion and to
     cause the Company to prepay such Property Indebtedness), GGPLP shall pay
     the prepayment penalty relating thereto. A payment required to be made
     pursuant to this subsection (b) shall be made concurrent with or prior to
     the Transfer of Properties or Units to which such payment relates, within
     30 days following such acceleration or concurrent with the dissolution,
     liquidation and winding-up of the Company, as the case may be (except that
     the payment of the prepayment penalty referred to in the immediately
     preceding sentence shall be paid within five (5) days following receipt by
     GGPLP of written demand therefor).

          (c) GGPLP may, at any time and from time to time, prepay all or a
     portion of its Retained Debt to the extent permitted under the Retained
     Debt Loan Documents (and, upon any such prepayment, GGPLP shall pay any
     prepayment penalties and charges attendant thereto).

     10.3 FAILURE TO MAKE PAYMENTS IN RESPECT OF RETAINED DEBT.

          (a) If TRS determines that GGPLP has failed to pay any principal,
     interest or other amount required pursuant to this Article X, TRS shall
     send a written notice (the "Retained Debt Default Notice") to GGPLP,
     notifying GGPLP of its failure to make such payment, the amount of such
     payment, the date such payment was due, and requesting that such payment be
     paid immediately.

          (b) If GGPLP fails to make a payment of principal, interest or other
     amount required under this Article X within 15 days after receiving the
     Retained Debt Default Notice, GGPLP shall be in default (the Member in
     default is referred to as a "Retained Debt Defaulting Member" and the
     amount that such Retained Debt Defaulting Member failed to pay is referred
     to as the "Retained Debt Default Amount") and the Members that are not
     Retained Debt Default Members (the "Retained Debt Non-Defaulting Members")
     may (i) pay (and hereby are granted a power of attorney to pay) the
     Retained Debt Default Amount (which shall be deemed to be a loan by the
     Retained Debt Non-Defaulting Members to the Retained Debt Defaulting
     Members) and/or (ii) pursue their other rights and remedies hereunder and,
     subject to the terms hereof, at law or in equity. Any such loan (a
     "Retained Debt Default Loan") shall bear interest at the per annum rate
     equal to Prime plus 4% and shall be due and payable on demand. The
     foregoing power of attorney and the power of attorney granted pursuant to
     Section 12.2(b) are special powers of attorney coupled with an interest,
     are irrevocable and shall survive the

-43-

dissolution of the Member granting the same and shall survive the delivery
     of an assignment by such Member of the whole or any portion of its Units.

     10.4 INDEMNIFICATION. In addition to the obligations pursuant to Section
10.2, GGPLP agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company and the
Subsidiaries, the direct or indirect directors, officers, members (including
TRS), partners, shareholders, employees, representatives and agents of the
Company and the Subsidiaries and their successors and assigns (collectively, the
"Indemnitees"), from and against any claims, actions, proceedings, judgments,
obligations, damages, penalties, costs, expenses, liabilities of any kind or
nature or losses, including sums paid in settlement of claims and reasonable
attorneys' fees, paralegals' fees and expenses, court costs (including any such
fees and expenses incurred in enforcing this Agreement or collecting any sums
due hereunder), and fees of consultants and experts (collectively, the "Costs")
that arise directly or indirectly from the failure of GGPLP to comply with its
obligations under this Article X.

     10.5 SECURITY INTEREST.

          (a) GGPLP hereby grants to the other Member a first priority lien
     upon, and a security interest in, all of the Units of such Member and all
     amounts, payments and proceeds distributable or payable to such Member by
     the Company, now or in the future, as collateral security for the payment
     and performance of such Member's obligations under this Article X (and the
     grant of such lien and security interest shall be deemed permitted
     hereunder, including under the provisions of Article VIII). GGPLP shall
     execute such financing statements as the other Member shall reasonably
     request in order to perfect and maintain the perfection of the lien and
     security interest herein granted and authorizes such Member to file any
     financing statements as such Member shall reasonably deem necessary to
     perfect and maintain the perfection of such lien and security interest.
     Unless GGPLP becomes a Retained Debt Defaulting Member, GGPLP shall remain
     entitled to receive distributions and other amounts in accordance with this
     Agreement, including Section 4.8 and Article XI, and exercise all other
     rights in respect of its Units.

          (b) If (and only if) GGPLP becomes a Retained Debt Defaulting Member
     and except as otherwise provided herein, all amounts, payments and proceeds
     which may become distributable or payable by the Company to GGPLP shall be
     paid to the Retained Debt Non-Defaulting Members and shall become
     additional collateral hereunder.

          (c) This Agreement shall constitute a security agreement under the
     Uniform Commercial Code. If (and only if) GGPLP becomes a Retained Debt
     Defaulting Member, the Retained Debt Non-Defaulting Member may exercise any
     of the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Uniform Commercial
     Code with respect to the Units of GGPLP, including the right to sell,
     assign and deliver such Units, or any part thereof, at public or private
     sale.

     10.6 OTHER MATTERS RELATING TO RETAINED DEBT.

          (a) The Company shall cause the Subsidiaries to timely comply with all
     of the obligations of the Subsidiaries under the Retained Debt Loan
     Documents (other than the

-44-

obligation to pay the principal, interest and other amounts that GGPLP is
     required to pay pursuant hereto).

          (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the
     Company shall not, and shall cause the Subsidiaries not to, amend or modify
     the Retained Debt Loan Documents or take other actions in respect of the
     Retained Debt, including prepayment of the Retained Debt, without the prior
     written consent of GGPLP.

          (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if (i)
     a Determination has been made that Retained Debt constitutes Indebtedness
     of the Company rather than Indebtedness of GGPLP and (ii) TRS (or any
     successor or assignee with respect to all of TRS's Units) is subject to the
     UBTI provisions of the Code (or TRS or any such successor or assignee later
     becomes subject to the UBTI provisions of the Code), then, not later than
     the time prescribed by law (not including extensions) for the filing of the
     Company's federal partnership tax return (the "Return Due Date") for the
     taxable year within which such Determination is made (or, in the case where
     TRS or any such successor or assignee later becomes subject to the UBTI
     provisions of the Code, not later than the Return Due Date for the taxable
     year within which TRS or such successor or assignee becomes subject to the
     UBTI provisions of the Code), the following shall occur (provided that such
     Determination has not been revoked, overruled, or otherwise rendered
     inapplicable prior to the relevant Return Due Date): (i) the receipt of the
     proceeds of the Retained Debt by GGPLP shall be treated as a distribution
     to GGPLP, (ii) the Company shall assume all obligations of GGPLP with
     respect to such Retained Debt (which thereafter shall cease to be Retained
     Debt for purposes hereof), (iii) GGPLP shall pay to TRS cash in an amount
     equal to the product obtained by multiplying the outstanding principal
     balance of such Retained Debt by TRS' Proportionate Share (as a result of
     which transfer, for all purposes, GGPLP shall be deemed to have contributed
     cash to the Company in the amount of the Retained Debt and the Company
     shall be deemed to have distributed such cash to GGPLP and TRS in
     accordance with their Proportionate Shares), (iv) commencing with January 1
     of the taxable year during which such Determination is made (or, in the
     case where TRS or any such successor or assignee later becomes subject to
     the UBTI provisions of the Code, commencing with January 1 of the taxable
     year during which TRS or such successor or assignee becomes subject to the
     UBTI provisions of the Code), such Retained Debt and all items of income,
     gain, loss, and deduction with respect thereto shall be allocated between
     the Members in accordance with their Proportionate Shares, and (v) unless
     and until the foregoing Determination is revoked, overruled, or otherwise
     rendered inapplicable or TRS is no longer subject to the UBTI provisions of
     the Code, no other Property Indebtedness of the Company shall be designated
     Retained Debt.

                                   ARTICLE XI

                           DISSOLUTION AND TERMINATION

     11.1 DISSOLUTION. Unless otherwise expressly provided herein to the
contrary, the Company shall continue in effect until dissolved and wound up upon
the occurrence of any one or more of the following events:

-45-

(a) the decision of the Board to dissolve the Company;

          (b) the sale of all or substantially all of the Company Assets and the
     receipt of all consideration therefor except that if non-monetary
     consideration is received upon such disposition, the Company shall not be
     dissolved pursuant to this clause until such consideration is converted
     into money or money equivalent; and

          (c) dissolution required by operation of law.

     Dissolution of the Company caused by a Member in contravention of this
Agreement shall be a violation of this Agreement and the other Member shall have
all rights and remedies provided under applicable law and, in addition thereto,
the right to any and all damages at law or in equity resulting from such
violation of this Agreement. To the extent permissible by law, whether or not
the business of the Company is continued by the non-defaulting Member, such
non-defaulting Member shall be permitted to withhold the defaulting Member's
share of Company property the defaulting Member would otherwise be entitled to
under this Article XI upon the winding-up and termination of the Company as
collateral security for the obligations such defaulting Member may have to the
non-defaulting Member in connection with the operation and dissolution of the
Company.

     11.2 ACCOUNTING. Upon the dissolution, winding-up and termination of the
Company, a proper accounting shall be made of the assets and liabilities of the
Company, including all Net Cash Flow and the Capital Account of each Member as
of the date of dissolution and of the items of Net Income and Net Loss of the
Company from the date of the last previous accounting to the date of
dissolution. The financial statements and reports specified in Section 5.3 shall
be prepared by the Managing Member and distributed to each Member as though the
date of termination were the last day of the then current Fiscal Year. The
Managing Member shall also prepare a report (and deliver the same to each of the
Members) setting forth in reasonable detail the manner and disposition of
assets.

     11.3 WINDING-UP.

          (a) Winding-Up. Upon the dissolution of the Company, the affairs of
     the Company thereafter shall be wound up and terminated as promptly as
     practicable in an orderly and businesslike and commercially reasonable
     manner, and the Members shall continue to share Net Income, Net Loss, Net
     Cash Flow and other items of the Company during the winding-up period in
     accordance with the provisions of Article IV. The winding-up of the affairs
     of the Company shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
     Article VI.

          (b) Termination. Upon the completion of the winding up of the Company
     and the distribution of all Company assets, the Company shall terminate and
     the Managing Member shall have the authority to execute and record any and
     all other documents required to effectuate the termination of the Company
     and the Members shall cooperate in the execution and delivery of any such
     reasonable documents required to effectuate the termination of the Company.

-46-

11.4 LIQUIDATING DISTRIBUTION. In the event of the dissolution of the
Company for any reason, the Company assets shall be liquidated for distribution
in the following rank and order:

          (a) first, to the payment and discharge of all the Company's debts and
     liabilities in the order of priority as provided by law;

          (b) second, to the establishment of any necessary reserves to provide
     for contingent liabilities or obligations of the Company as determined by
     the Managing Member in its commercially reasonable judgment; and

          (c) the balance, if any, to the Members pro rata in accordance with
     their respective positive Capital Accounts, after giving effect to all
     contributions, distributions and allocations for all periods, including the
     period during which such distributions occur.

     11.5 DISTRIBUTIONS IN ACCORDANCE WITH CAPITAL ACCOUNTS.

          (a) In the event the Company is "liquidated" within the meaning of
     Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(g) (the "Liquidation Event"),
     distributions shall be made to the Members in accordance with their
     respective positive Capital Accounts in compliance with Regulation Section
     1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(b)(2), such distributions to be made on or before a date
     (the "Final Liquidation Date") no later than the later to occur of (i) the
     last day of the taxable year of the Company in which the Liquidation Event
     occurs and (ii) ninety days after the date of such Liquidation Event.

          (b) If the Board determines that the distributions will not be timely
     made as provided in foregoing paragraph (a), all of the assets and
     liabilities of the Company shall be distributed in trust with such person
     as may be selected by the Board, as trustee; the purpose of the trust is to
     allow the Company to comply with the timing requirements contained in
     foregoing paragraph (a). The trustee of said trust shall distribute the
     former Company assets (however constituted, enhanced or otherwise) as
     promptly as he deems proper and in the same manner as directed in this
     Section 11.5 (without regard to this sentence or the preceding sentence)
     and otherwise as required hereunder. The trust shall be terminated as soon
     as possible after the trust property is distributed to the beneficiaries
     thereof.

     11.6 NEGATIVE CAPITAL ACCOUNTS. No Member shall have an obligation to the
Company or any other Member to restore to zero any negative balance in its
Capital Account.

     11.7 DISTRIBUTIONS IN KIND. Company Assets may not be distributed in kind
without the approval of the Board.

     11.8 NO REDEMPTION. Except as expressly provided herein, the Company may
not acquire, by redemption or otherwise, any Units of any Member.

     11.9 RETURN OF CAPITAL. No Member shall have any right to receive the
return of its Capital Contribution or to seek or obtain partition of assets of
the Company, other than as expressly provided in this Agreement.

-47-

ARTICLE XII

               ADDITIONAL CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS; OTHER ACTIVITIES

     12.1 ADDITIONAL CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS.

          (a) In the event that the Board determines that the Company requires
     additional funds for any reason, the Board shall deliver to the Members a
     funding notice (each, a "Funding Notice") specifying the amount of the
     funds required at such time (each, a "Required Funds Amount") and the
     Members' Proportionate Shares thereof. Each Member shall, within fifteen
     (15) days after a Funding Notice is given, pay its Proportionate Share of
     the applicable Required Funds Amount to the Company as an additional
     Capital Contribution. Such additional Capital Contributions shall be made
     in immediately available funds.

          (b) Each Member waives its right to any setoff or reduction with
     respect to its obligation to make additional Capital Contributions based on
     any claim that such Member has against the Company or the other Members.

          (c) No additional Units shall be issued to any Member on account of
     any additional Capital Contribution made by such Member pursuant to this
     Article XII, but the Capital Account of such Member shall be increased on
     account of such Capital Contribution.

     12.2 FAILURE TO MAKE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS.

          (a) If a Member determines that another Member has failed to make an
     additional Capital Contribution required pursuant to this Article XII, such
     Member shall send a written notice (the "Contribution Default Notice") to
     such other Member, notifying such other Member of its failure to make such
     additional Capital Contribution, the amount of such additional Capital
     Contribution, the date such additional Capital Contribution was due, and
     requesting that such additional Capital Contribution be paid immediately.

          (b) If a Member fails to pay an additional Capital Contribution
     required under this Article XII within 15 days after receiving the
     Contribution Default Notice then such Member shall be in default (the
     Member in default is referred to as a "Contribution Defaulting Member" and
     the amount that such Contribution Defaulting Member failed to contribute is
     referred to as the "Contribution Default Amount") and the Members that are
     not Contribution Defaulting Members (the "Contribution Non-Defaulting
     Members") may (i) pay (and hereby are granted a power of attorney to pay)
     the Contribution Default Amount (which shall be deemed to be a loan by the
     Contribution Non-Defaulting Members to the Contribution Defaulting Members)
     and/or (ii) pursue their other rights and remedies hereunder and, subject
     to the terms hereof, at law or in equity. Any such loan (a "Contribution
     Default Loan") shall bear interest at the per annum rate equal to Prime
     plus 4% and shall be due and payable on demand.

     12.3 OTHER ACTIVITIES. Each Member and its Affiliates (including the Board
members designated by it) may engage or invest in or own any other property,
activity or venture (whether

-48-

or not competitive with the business or properties of the Company or its
Subsidiaries) or possess any direct or indirect interest therein independently
or with others. None of the Members, or any other Person employed by, related to
or in any way affiliated with any Member or the Company (including the Board
members) shall have any duty or obligation to disclose or offer to the Company
or any of the Members, or obtain for the benefit of the Company or any of the
Members, any such other property, activity or venture or interest therein. None
of the Company, the Members, the creditors of the Company or any other Person
employed by, related to or in any way affiliated with any Member or the Company
shall have (a) any claim, right or cause of action against any of the Members or
any other Person employed by, related to or in any way affiliated with, any of
the Members (including the Board members) by reason of any direct or indirect
investment or other participation, whether active or passive, in any such other
property, activity or venture or interest therein or (b) any right to any such
other property, activity or venture or interest therein or the income or profits
derived therefrom. The Managing Member only shall be required to devote such
time to the management of the business of the Company as it deems necessary to
promote the interests of the Company.

                                  ARTICLE XIII

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

     13.1 SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS. Subject to the provisions of Article VIII, all
the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, shall inure
solely to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by, the parties hereto and
their respective successors and assigns, and no such term or provision is for
the benefit of, or intended to create any obligations to or rights in, any other
Person. If any Member shall acquire additional Units and if any Transferee of
any Member shall acquire any Units, in each case in any manner, whether by a
permitted Transfer, operation of law or otherwise, such Units shall be held
subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such
Units such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and
to comply with all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement.

     13.2 AMENDMENT; WAIVER.

               (a) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be
          changed or amended orally, but only by an instrument in writing signed
          by all Members.

               (b) No failure by any party to insist upon the strict performance
          of any covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to
          exercise any right or remedy consequent upon breach thereof shall
          constitute a waiver of any such breach or of any other covenant, duty,
          agreement or condition, any waiver being effective only if contained
          in a writing executed by the waiving party.

     13.3 NOTICES. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all notices,
requests, claims, demands, waivers and other communications hereunder shall be
in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by hand,
when delivered personally or by courier (including nationally recognized
overnight courier), five days after being deposited in the United States mail,
or when received by facsimile transmission, at the address or facsimile

-49-

transmission number set forth opposite such Member's name on Schedule I hereto
(or, in the case of Persons who become parties hereto subsequently, at their
last addresses or facsimile transmission numbers shown on the record books of
the Company). Each party hereto, by notice given to each other party hereto in
accordance with this Section 13.3, may change the address or facsimile
transmission number to which such notices or other communications are to be sent
to such party.

     13.4 FURTHER ASSURANCES. Each party to this Agreement agrees to execute,
acknowledge, deliver, file and record such further certificates, amendments,
instruments and documents and do all such other acts and things, as may be
required by law or as, in the reasonable judgment of Managing Member or any
Member, may be necessary or advisable to carry out the intent and purpose of
this Agreement.

     13.5 CONFIDENTIALITY. The Members agree not to disclose or use (except by
the Company, any Subsidiary or either of them as may be required in connection
with the operation of the business of the Company or any Subsidiary) of any of
the terms of this Agreement or of any information relating to the assets or
business of the Company or any Subsidiary, which the Members hereby acknowledge
constitute non-public information, provided that a Member may make such
disclosure (but only as and to the extent required) (a) to any person who is a
partner, officer, director or employee of such Member or advisers or counsel to
or accountants of such Member solely for their use and on a need-to-know basis,
(b) with the prior consent of the Board, (c) pursuant to a subpoena or order
issued by a court, arbitrator or governmental body, agency or official, (d) as
required by applicable federal or state laws (including securities and freedom
of information laws), (e) to any lender or prospective lender to, or investor
in, such Member or (f) to any prospective purchaser or purchasers of Units
pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the third paragraph of this
Section 13.5 (but such Member shall be liable for any further disclosure or use
of such information by any Person referred to in this paragraph which if made or
done by such Member would violate the terms hereof).

     In the event that a Member shall receive a request to disclose any of the
terms of this Agreement or such other information under subpoena or order, such
Member shall (i) promptly notify the Board thereof, (ii) consult with the Board
on the advisability of taking steps to resist or narrow such request and (iii)
if disclosure is required or deemed advisable, cooperate with the Board in any
attempt it may make to obtain an order or other assurance that confidential
treatment will be accorded the terms of this Agreement or such other information
that is disclosed.

     Prior to and in anticipation of exercising its rights under Section 8.3 or
Article IX and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, either
Member may provide information concerning the Company and the Properties to one
or more Persons that such Member reasonably believes would have the ability to
purchase, in the case of an exercise of rights under Section 8.3, the Units of
such Member and, in the case of an exercise of rights under Article IX, all of
the issued and outstanding Units; provided, however, that such Member shall not
(a) provide any such information to any Person unless such Person has signed a
confidentiality agreement containing the restrictions set forth in the first two
paragraphs of this Section 13.5 (but the execution of such confidentiality
agreement shall not relieve the disclosing party from liability for the further
disclosure or use of such information as provided in the parenthetical set forth
at the end of the first paragraph of this Section 13.5) or (b) provide the rent

-50-

roll and other specific occupant information relating to a Property to any
Person that owns a retail property that directly competes with any Property (it
being acknowledged and understood that there currently are no such properties).

     13.6 APPLICABLE LAW. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE (WITHOUT REGARD TO ITS
CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES).

     13.7 HEADINGS. The descriptive headings of the several sections in this
Agreement are for convenience only and do not constitute part of this Agreement
and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

     13.8 ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement (including the Schedules and Exhibits
hereto) and the other documents referred to herein constitute the entire
agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and
supersede all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, among the
parties hereto with respect to such subject matter, including the Existing
Operating Agreement.

     13.9 SEVERABILITY. Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited,
unenforceable or not authorized in any jurisdiction shall, as to such
jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition, unenforceability
or lack of authorization without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof or
affecting the validity, unenforceability or legality of such provision in any
other jurisdiction.

     13.10 COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which
together constitute one and the same document.

     13.11 ARBITRATION. Any claim arising out of an alleged breach of this
Agreement and any other dispute among the parties hereto shall be resolved by
arbitration. Such arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the
following:

          (a) Each party shall have ten (10) business days after written notice
     by another party of the commencement of arbitration proceedings hereunder
     to appoint an arbitrator who was not employed by such Member within the
     previous 5 years. Each party shall immediately notify the other party of
     such appointment. The two arbitrators so appointed shall then select a
     third arbitrator within ten (10) business days after the appointment of the
     second arbitrator to then constitute the Board of Arbitration. If any party
     shall fail to appoint an arbitrator within such ten (10) business day
     period or, if the two arbitrators selected by the parties shall fail to
     make a selection of a third arbitrator within ten (10) business days of
     their selection, then the American Arbitration Association shall appoint
     the arbitrator that was not selected by the failing party or shall appoint
     the third arbitrator, as the case may be, in accordance with the Commercial
     Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association. The Board of
     Arbitration shall then proceed under such rules.

          (b) Following the designation of such Board of Arbitration, the
     parties, together with the members of the Board of Arbitrators, shall
     promptly undertake appropriate

-51-

informal efforts to mediate and negotiate a solution to the matter covered
     by the original notice.

          (c) If a negotiated solution cannot be achieved within fourteen (14)
     days after the date on which the Board of Arbitration is constituted, then
     the Board of Arbitration shall notify the parties. The proceeding, upon
     such notification, will then become a compulsory arbitration to be
     conducted under the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American
     Arbitration Association by the Board of Arbitration and the Supplementary
     Procedures for Large, Complex Disputes. These rules shall be subject to the
     following modifications:

               (i) discovery shall be permitted under the same standards
     provided for in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure;

               (ii) the members of the Board of Arbitration shall interpret and
     apply the provisions of this Agreement;

               (iii) the arbitration costs may be charged to the losing party or
     allocated between the parties as may be determined by the Board of
     Arbitration; and

               (iv) the proceedings will be held in Chicago, Illinois, unless
     the parties shall otherwise agree in writing.

          (d) In connection with the enforcement of the mediation and
     arbitration provisions of this Section 13.11, any agreement, decision or
     award shall be final and conclusive as to any such claim. The arbitrators
     may award any remedies that may be awarded by a court except as otherwise
     expressly provided herein, including as provided in the second to last
     sentence of the first paragraph of the definition of "Cause" and the second
     sentence of the definition of "Managing Member".

     13.12 CONSENT TO JURISDICTION. In connection with any suit, claim, action
or proceeding brought to compel arbitration or enforce an arbitration award: the
Members hereby consent to the in personam jurisdiction of the United States
federal courts and state courts located in New Castle County, Delaware, each
such Person agrees that service in the manner set forth in Section 13.3 hereof
shall be valid and sufficient for all purposes; and each such Person agrees to,
and irrevocably waives any objection or defense to appearing in any United
States federal court or state court located in New Castle County, Delaware. Each
Member hereby irrevocably appoints the Company as agent for service of process
with respect to any matters relating to the rights and obligations of the
parties arising out of this Agreement.

     13.13 WAIVER OF PARTITION. Each Member hereby irrevocably waives during the
term of the Company any right that it may have to maintain any action for
partition with respect to any Company property.

     13.14 COMPANY NAME. If, at any time, the Company name shall include the
name of, or any trade name used by, a Member or any of its Affiliates, neither
the Company nor any other Member shall acquire any right, title or interest in
or to such name or trade name.

-52-

13.15 OWNERSHIP OF COMPANY PROPERTY. The interest of each Member in the
Company shall be personal property for all purposes. All real and other property
owned by the Company (or its Subsidiaries) shall be deemed owned by the Company
(or its Subsidiaries) as Company (or its Subsidiaries') property. No Member,
individually, shall have any direct ownership of such property and title to such
property shall be held in the name of the Company (or its Subsidiaries).

     13.16 TIME OF THE ESSENCE. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this
Agreement, time shall be of the essence with respect to all time periods set
forth in this Agreement.

     13.17 STATUS REPORTS. Recognizing that each Member may find it necessary
from time to time to establish to third parties, such as accountants, banks,
mortgagees, prospective transferees of their Units, or the like or the then
current status of certain matters, each Member shall, within ten (10) business
days following the written request of another Member made from time to time,
furnish a written statement on the status of the following:

          (a) that this Agreement is unmodified and in full force and effect (or
     if there have been modifications, that the Agreement is in full force and
     effect as modified and identifying the documents effecting the
     modifications); and

          (b) stating whether or not to the actual knowledge of such certifying
     Member (i) the other Members in the Company are in default in keeping,
     observing or performing any of the terms contained in this Agreement and,
     if in default, specifying each such default (limited to those defaults of
     which the certifying Member has actual knowledge), and (ii) there has
     occurred an event that with the passage of time or the giving of notice, or
     both, would ripen into a default hereunder on the part of such other Member
     (limited to those events of which the certifying Member has actual
     knowledge).

Such statement may be relied upon by such other Member and any other Person for
whom such statement is requested and shall act as a waiver of any claim by the
Member furnishing such certificate to the extent such claim is based upon facts
which are contrary to those asserted in the certificate, but no such statement
shall operate as a waiver as to any default or other matter as to which the
Member executing it did not have actual knowledge. Such certificate shall in no
event subject the Member furnishing it to any liability whatsoever,
notwithstanding the negligence or inadvertent failure of such Member to disclose
correct or relevant information.

     13.18 DISPOSITION OF DOCUMENTS. All documents and records of the Company,
including all financial records, vouchers, canceled checks, and bank statements
shall be delivered to GGPLP upon termination of the Company if GGPLP is then a
Member, and otherwise to TRS. Upon request of any Member, copies of all such
documents and records shall be provided to such Member at such Member's cost.
The Member holding such documents and records shall retain them for a period of
at least six (6) years after the termination of the Company and shall make such
records available to the other Member for inspection during such period.

     13.19 CALCULATION OF DAYS. The provisions of this Agreement relative to
number of days shall be deemed to refer to calendar days, unless otherwise
specified. When the date for performance of any obligation of any Member falls
on a non-business day, such obligation need not be performed until the next
following business day. For purposes of this Agreement, a

-53-

"business day" shall be deemed to mean any day other than Saturday, Sunday, or a
day which is in Chicago, Illinois either a legal holiday or a day upon which
banking institutions are authorized by law to remain closed for the entire day.

     13.20 ATTORNEYS. The Members agree that neither shall assert the fact that
Neal, Gerber & Eisenberg has represented GGPLP and Piper Rudnick has represented
TRS in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Agreement to be a
basis to disqualify either firm from representing the Company and that any
prospective representation of the Company by either law firm shall not
disqualify them from representing the respective Members in any dispute with
each other.

-54-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement as of the
date set forth above.

                                        GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
                                        a Delaware limited partnership

                                        By: General Growth Properties, Inc.,
                                            a Delaware corporation, general
                                            partner

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Joel Bayer, Senior Vice President

TEACHERS' RETIREMENT SYSTEM OF THE STATE
                                        OF ILLINOIS

                                        By: Commonwealth Realty Advisors, Inc.,
                                            as attorney-in-fact under power of
                                            attorney

By: /s/ Mark Kirincich
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Mark Kirincich, President

GGP-TRS L.L.C., a Delaware limited
                                        liability company

                                        By: GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware
                                            limited partnership, its managing
                                            member

                                        By: General Growth Properties, Inc., a
                                            Delaware corporation, general
                                            partner

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Joel Bayer,
                                            Senior Vice President

-55-

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.25>
 25
 c02442exv10w25.txt
 AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED OPERATING AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 10.25

                         FIRST AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND
                          RESTATED OPERATING AGREEMENT

     First Amendment to Amended and Restated Operating Agreement, dated December
19, 2002 (the "Amendment"), among GGP Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited
partnership ("GGPLP"), Teachers' Retirement System of the State of Illinois
("TRS" and, together with GGPLP, the "Members"), and GGP-TRS L.L.C., a Delaware
limited liability company (the "Company").

                                   RECITALS:

     WHEREAS, the Members are all of the members of the Company;

     WHEREAS, the Company and the Members have entered into that certain Amended
and Restated Operating Agreement dated August 26, 2002 (the "Existing Operating
Agreement"), relating to, among other things, the management of the Company and
the transfer of units of membership interest therein;

     WHEREAS, GGPLP and The Western and Southern Life Insurance Company (the
"Florence Mall Seller") have entered into that certain Purchase and Sale
Agreement, dated as of November 27, 2002 (as the same may be amended from time
to time, the "Florence Mall Purchase Agreement"), pursuant to which GGPLP has
agreed to purchase Florence Mall in Florence, Kentucky ("Florence Mall");

     WHEREAS, the Florence Mall Seller has made certain representations and
warranties in the Florence Mall Purchase Agreement (collectively, the "Florence
Mall Seller Representations");

     WHEREAS, the Company is the sole member of Florence Mall L.L.C., a Delaware
limited liability company ("Florence Mall L.L.C.");

     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 6.3(d) of the Existing Operating Agreement,
GGPLP agreed to provide TRS with certain projections for the Company and its
properties for the TRS fiscal year commencing on July 1, 2003 (the "2003/2004
Projections") as well as projections for subsequent fiscal years;

     WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire that (a) GGPLP contribute to the capital
of the Company all of the right, title and interest of GGPLP under the Florence
Mall Purchase Agreement, (b) the Company contribute to the capital of Florence
Mall L.L.C. all of such right, title and interest, (c) Florence Mall L.L.C.
obtain a loan upon the terms described on Schedule A, attached hereto and by
this reference made a part hereof (the "Florence Mall Loan"), the proceeds of
which will be used to pay a portion of the purchase price for Florence Mall (the
"Florence Mall Purchase Price"), (d) GGPLP and TRS make additional capital
contributions to the Company which will be used to pay the remainder of the
Florence Mall Purchase Price and the acquisition costs for Florence Mall, (e)
Florence Mall L.L.C. acquire Florence Mall pursuant to the Florence Mall
Purchase Agreement (the "Florence Mall Acquisition" and, together with

the Florence Mall Loan, the "Florence Mall Transactions") and (f) the parties
make certain other modifications to the Existing Operating Agreement; and

     WHEREAS, the parties desire that the Company amend the Existing Operating
Agreement as hereinafter set forth to reflect their understandings regarding the
foregoing.

     NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties do hereby
agree as follows:

     1. DEFINED TERMS. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have
the meanings set forth in the Existing Operating Agreement, as amended hereby.

     2. MATTERS RELATING TO ACQUISITION OF FLORENCE MALL.

     (a) Prior to the closing of the Florence Mall Acquisition, (i) GGPLP shall
contribute to the capital of the Company all of GGPLP's right, title and
interest under the Florence Mall Purchase Agreement, and the Company shall
assume all of the obligations of GGPLP under the Florence Mall Purchase
Agreement, pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement substantially in
the form attached hereto as Exhibit A and (ii) the Company shall contribute to
the capital of Florence Mall L.L.C. all of such right, title and interest and
Florence Mall L.L.C. shall assume all of such obligations, pursuant to an
Assignment and Assumption Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit B.

     (b) The parties hereby approve the Florence Mall Transactions, which shall
be deemed to have been approved by the Board. The provisions of the last
sentence of Section 6.2 of the Existing Operating Agreement shall apply to the
loan documents relating to the Florence Mall Loan.

     (c) Concurrently with the closing of the Florence Mall Acquisition, each
Member shall pay $20,500,000 to the Company as an additional capital
contribution thereto; provided, however, that GGPLP shall be entitled to a
credit against the amount of such payment for the $1,000,000 earnest money
deposit paid by it pursuant to the Florence Mall Purchase Agreement and any
interest accrued thereon, and GGPLP shall be deemed to have made a capital
contribution to the Company in the amount of such credit. The additional capital
contributions to be made pursuant to this paragraph shall be paid in immediately
available funds.

     (d) No additional Units shall be issued to GGPLP or TRS on account of the
additional capital contributions referred to in this Section 2.

     (e) The Company shall pay (and/or cause Florence Mall L.L.C. to pay) the
costs of the types described in Schedule 6.2 of the Existing Operating Agreement
incurred by the Company, Florence Mall L.L.C. and/or GGPLP in connection with
the consummation of the Florence Mall Transactions, including without limitation
the costs specified in Sections 3 and 4 of Schedule 7.1-2 of the Existing
Operating Agreement (collectively, the "Florence Mall Costs"), and the payment
of the Florence Mall Costs shall be deemed to have been approved by the Board.

-2-

(f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Existing
Operating Agreement, the provisions of Section 6.2(e)(xvi) of the Existing
Operating Agreement shall not apply to the modifications described in Schedule
A.

     (g) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Existing
Operating Agreement, no portion of the Florence Mall Loan shall constitute
Retained Debt and no adjustment in the existing Retained Debt or the existing
allocation thereof shall occur on account of the incurrence of the Florence Mall
Loan.

     (h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Existing
Operating Agreement, the Managing Member shall submit the portions of the 2003
Proposed Annual Business Plan and the 2003/2004 Projections that pertain to
Florence Mall on or before March 31, 2003 (instead of the earlier dates, if any,
specified in the Existing Operating Agreement) (but nothing contained herein
shall extend the due date for delivery of the remainder of the 2003 Proposed
Annual Business Plan, the remainder of the 2003/2004 Projections or any other
Proposed Annual Business Plan or projections). Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained herein, until there is an Annual Business Plan that pertains
to Florence Mall, the Company shall cause Florence Mall L.L.C. to operate
Florence Mall in a manner which is consistent with the operation by GGPLP of its
properties generally and Florence Mall L.L.C. may make such expenditures as are
consistent with the operation of Florence Mall in such manner without the
consent of the Board (but the making of capital expenditures during such period
in respect of Florence Mall shall require the approval of the Board unless they
are in connection with tenant leasing or constitute Nondiscretionary Items).

     (i) GGPLP represents and warrants to TRS that, as of the date hereof and
except for matters set forth in written materials furnished to TRS or
Commonwealth Realty Advisors, Inc. prior to the execution and delivery hereof,
GGPLP has no Knowledge of inaccuracies in the Florence Mall Seller
Representations (without regard to the knowledge qualifications contained
therein) that individually or in the aggregate would have a material adverse
effect on Florence Mall. For purposes of this paragraph, "Knowledge" means the
actual knowledge (excluding any constructive or imputed knowledge) of Joel
Bayer. The representation and warranty contained in this Section 2(i) shall be
subject to the same limitations on survival as are contained in Section 5.3 of
the Florence Mall Purchase Agreement.

     3. AMENDMENT TO SCHEDULE I. Schedule I of the Existing Operating Agreement
is hereby amended by deleting the reference to Piper Rudnick and its address and
inserting the following in lieu thereof:

     "Gardner, Carton & Douglas
     191 North Wacker Drive, Suite 3700
     Chicago, Illinois 60606
     Attn: Steven L. Loren
     Telephone: 312/569-1337
     Facsimile: 312/569-3337"

     4. NO OTHER CHANGES; ETC. Except as specifically set forth herein, the
Existing Operating Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. Any
references in the Existing

-3-

Operating Agreement to "hereunder" or "herein" or other terms of similar import
shall mean the Existing Operating Agreement, as amended hereby.

     5. GOVERNING LAW. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made
under the laws of the State of Delaware (without regard to its conflicts of law
principles).

     6. COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, each of
which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute the same
document.

     7. BINDING EFFECT. This Amendment shall be binding upon, and inure to the
benefit of, the parties and their respective successors and assigns.

                  [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

-4-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment on the date
first written above.

                                        GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
                                        a Delaware limited partnership

                                        By: General Growth Properties, Inc.,
                                            a Delaware corporation, its general
                                            partner

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Joel Bayer, Senior Vice President

TEACHERS' RETIREMENT SYSTEM OF THE STATE
                                        OF ILLINOIS

                                        By: Commonwealth Realty Advisors, Inc.,
                                            as attorney-in-fact under power of
                                            attorney

By: /s/ Mark Kirincich
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Mark Kirincich, President

GGP-TRS L.L.C., a Delaware limited
                                        liability company

                                        By: GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware
                                            limited partnership, its managing
                                            member

                                        By: General Growth Properties, Inc., a
                                            Delaware corporation, its general
                                            partner

By: /s/ Joel Bayer
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Joel Bayer,
                                            Senior Vice President

</EX-10.25>

<EX-10.26>
 26
 c02442exv10w26.txt
 AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED OPERATING AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 10.26

                         SECOND AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND
            RESTATED OPERATING AGREEMENT OF GGP-TRS L.L.C. AND FIRST
              AMENDMENT TO OPERATING AGREEMENT OF GGP-TRS II L.L.C.

     Amendment, dated November 1, 2005 (the "Amendment"), among GGP Limited
Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership ("GGPLP"), Teachers' Retirement
System of the State of Illinois ("TRS" and, together with GGPLP, the "Members"),
GGP-TRS L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (the "Company"), and
GGP-TRS II L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company ("GGP-TRS II").

                                    RECITALS:

     WHEREAS, the Members are all of the members of the Company;

     WHEREAS, the Company and the Members have entered into that certain Amended
and Restated Operating Agreement dated August 26, 2002, as amended (the
"Existing Operating Agreement"), relating to, among other things, the management
of the Company and the transfer of units of membership interest therein;

     WHEREAS, the Members also are all of the members of GGP-TRS II;

     WHEREAS, GGP-TRS II and the Members have entered into that certain
Operating Agreement dated November 29, 2004, as amended (the "Existing GGP-TRS
II Operating Agreement"), relating to, among other things, the management of
GGP-TRS II and the transfer of units of membership interest therein;

     WHEREAS, GGP-TRS II and Campbell Hawaii Investor, LLC ("Seller") have
entered into that certain Disposition Agreement, dated November 29, 2004 (as the
same may be amended from time to time, the "WV Purchase Agreement"), pursuant to
which GGP-TRS II agreed to purchase Whalers Village in Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii
("Whalers Village");

     WHEREAS, each Member has delivered a guaranty to Seller with respect to the
WV Purchase Agreement (each, a "WV Guaranty");

     WHEREAS, the Company is the sole member of WV Sub, LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company ("WV Sub");

     WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire that:

          (a) GGP-TRS II convey to WV Sub all of the right, title and interest
     of GGP-TRS II under the WV Purchase Agreement;

          (b) WV Sub assume all obligations of GGP-TRS II under the WV Purchase
     Agreement;

          (c) WV Sub obtain a loan (the "WV Loan") upon the terms described in
     that certain Loan Agreement dated the date hereof, between WV Sub, as
     borrower, and

Archon Financial L.P. and Commerzbank AG, New York Branch, as lenders
     (collectively, the "WV Lender"), a portion of which will be Retained Debt
     (as defined in the Existing Operating Agreement) and the remainder of which
     (net of amounts deducted by WV Lender and other costs and expenses) will be
     used by WV Sub to pay a portion of the purchase price for Whalers Village
     (the "WV Purchase Price");

          (d) GGPLP and TRS make additional capital contributions to the Company
     which will be used to pay the remainder of the WV Purchase Price and the
     acquisition costs for Whalers Village and establish a reserve for working
     capital;

          (e) WV Sub acquire Whalers Village pursuant to the WV Purchase
     Agreement (the "WV Acquisition" and, together with the WV Loan and the
     other transactions described in clauses (a)-(d) above and this clause (e),
     the "WV Transactions"); and

          (f) the parties make certain other modifications to the Existing
     Operating Agreement; and

     WHEREAS, the parties desire that the Company amend the Existing Operating
Agreement as hereinafter set forth to reflect their understandings regarding the
foregoing.

     NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties do hereby
agree as follows:

     1. DEFINED TERMS. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have
the meanings set forth in the Existing Operating Agreement, as amended hereby.

     2. MATTERS RELATING TO WV TRANSACTIONS. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in the Existing Operating Agreement or the Existing GGP-TRS
II Operating Agreement:

          (a) Prior to the closing of the WV Acquisition, the parties shall
cause GGP-TRS II to assign and convey to WV Sub all of GGP-TRS II's right, title
and interest under the WV Purchase Agreement, and the Company shall cause WV Sub
to assume all of the obligations of GGP-TRS II under the WV Purchase Agreement,
pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement substantially in the form
attached hereto as Exhibit A. The Company shall indemnify, defend and hold
harmless GGP-TRS II from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, debts,
liabilities, costs and expenses (including without limitation reasonable
attorneys' fees), whether known or unknown, liquidated or unliquidated, fixed or
contingent or direct or indirect and whether based on contract, tort, statute or
other legal theory of recovery, which relate to or arise out of the WV Purchase
Agreement.

          (b) The parties hereby approve the WV Transactions, which shall be
deemed to have been approved by the Board of the Company and the Board of
GGP-TRS II. Joel Bayer may execute and deliver any and all closing documents
relating to the WV Acquisition that are consistent with the terms and conditions
of the WV Purchase Agreement.

-2-

(c) Concurrently with the closing of the WV Acquisition, each Member
shall pay $44,834,000.00 to the Company as an additional capital contribution
thereto. The additional capital contributions to be made pursuant to this
Section 2(c) shall be paid in immediately available funds. No additional Units
shall be issued to GGPLP or TRS on account of the additional capital
contributions referred to in this Section 2(c).

          (d) $25,000,000 of the WV Loan shall constitute Retained Debt (the "WV
Retained Debt"), regardless of whether the Managing Member would be entitled to
make such designation under Section 10.1(a) of the Existing Operating Agreement.
The amount of the WV Retained Debt (i.e., $25,000,000) shall be paid directly to
GGPLP (or remitted by WV Sub to GGPLP) and used by GGPLP to pay a portion of its
capital contribution obligation under Section 2(c) hereof. No adjustment to the
Retained Debt shall be made pursuant to the last sentence of Section 10.1(a) of
the Existing Operating Agreement as a result of the WV Loan. The last sentence
of Section 10.1(a) of the Existing Operating Agreement shall in no event require
any future adjustment to Retained Debt which would reduce the WV Retained Debt,
and any such adjustment that would reduce the WV Retained Debt if this sentence
did not apply shall be determined without regard to (i) the WV Retained Debt and
Property Indebtedness of WV Sub and (ii) any other Retained Debt to which a
similar provision applies and the Property Indebtedness related thereto (and,
for clarity, any such similar provision is to be applied in the same manner as
is described in this sentence). Except as specifically set forth in this Section
2, all provisions of the Existing Operating Agreement shall apply to the WV
Retained Debt in the same manner as they apply to all other Retained Debt. TRS
shall have the right to review the loan documents relating to the WV Loan in
accordance with the last sentence of Section 6.2 of the Existing Operating
Agreement.

          (e) In the event that either Member is required to pay any amount
pursuant to its WV Guaranty, the other Member shall, upon demand by such Member,
reimburse such Member for one-half of such amount.

          (f) The Company shall pay (and/or cause WV Sub to pay) the costs of
the types shown on Exhibit B and/or Schedule 6.2 of the Existing Operating
Agreement that are or were incurred by the Company, WV Sub, GGPLP and/or GGP-TRS
II in connection with the WV Transactions, including without limitation the
financing fee required pursuant to Section 3 of Schedule 7.1-2 of the Existing
Operating Agreement and the acquisition fee required pursuant to Section 4 of
such schedule (collectively, the "Costs"); and, to the extent GGPLP and/or
GGP-TRS II has paid any of such costs, the Company shall reimburse (or cause WV
Sub) to reimburse them therefor. The payment of the Costs shall be deemed to
have been approved by the Board of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
(i) the financing fee referred to above shall be $850,000 (i.e., 1% of
$85,000,000 (the original principal amount of the WV Loan less the portion
thereof that constitutes Retained Debt)), (ii) except as shown on Exhibit B, the
Company or WV Sub shall pay the entire amount of all other costs and fees owing
in connection with the WV Loan (notwithstanding that a portion of the WV Loan is
Retained Debt) and (iii) such financing fee and the acquisition fee referred to
above shall be paid to GGMI at closing under the WV Purchase Agreement.

          (g) The Managing Member shall submit the portions of the 2006 Proposed
Annual Business Plan that pertain to Whalers Village to the Board of the Company
for approval

-3-

promptly after the date of this Amendment (instead of the earlier date, if any,
specified in the Existing Operating Agreement). During the portion of 2006 until
there is an Annual Business Plan that pertains to Whalers Village and during the
remainder of 2005, the Company shall cause WV Sub to operate Whalers Village in
a manner which is consistent with the operation by GGPLP of its properties
generally and WV Sub may make such expenditures as are consistent with the
operation of Whalers Village in such manner without the consent of the Board of
the Company (but the making of capital expenditures during such period in
respect of Whalers Village shall require the approval of such Board unless they
are in connection with tenant leasing or constitute Nondiscretionary Items).

          (h) GGPLP represents and warrants to TRS that, as of the date hereof
and except for matters set forth in written materials furnished to TRS or
Commonwealth Realty Advisors, Inc. prior to the execution and delivery hereof,
GGPLP has no knowledge of inaccuracies in the representations made by Seller
under the WV Purchase Agreement (without regard to the knowledge qualifications
contained therein) that individually or in the aggregate would have a material
adverse effect on Whalers Village. For purposes of this paragraph, "Knowledge"
means the actual knowledge (excluding any constructive or imputed knowledge) of
Joel Bayer. The representation and warranty contained in this Section 2(h) shall
be subject to the same limitations on survival as are contained in Section 5.3
of the WV Purchase Agreement.

          (i) The indemnification provisions contained in Section 6.6 of the
Existing Operating Agreement shall apply to GGPLP and its affiliates with
respect to their activities as managing member of, and provider of other
services to, GGP-TRS II.

          (j) For purposes of calculating the Annual Administrative Services
Fee, the acquisition cost of the WV Property shall be determined without regard
to any market value adjustment for leases that would otherwise be required by
FAS 141-142.

          (k) The parties acknowledge that the provisions of the Existing
Operating Agreement regarding Extended Term Financing (including without
limitation Schedule 6.2(e)(iv)) apply to Whalers Village. The financing fee paid
with respect to any refinancing of the WV Property prior to November 30, 2008
only shall apply to an amount of the gross proceeds thereof that equals the
excess of (i) the initial principal amount thereof (excluding any portion
thereof which constitutes Retained Debt) over (ii) the then outstanding
principal amount of the financing that is being repaid with such gross proceeds
(excluding any portion thereof that constitutes Retained Debt).

          (l) Inasmuch as Whalers Village is being acquired by a subsidiary of
the Company rather than a subsidiary of GGP-TRS II, the following provisions of
the Existing GGP-TRS II Operating Agreement shall no longer be applicable: (i)
the provisions relating to the acquisition and operation of Whalers Village
(including without limitation the provision requiring delivery of "Proposed
Annual Business Plans" and the provisions regarding the provision of property
management and other services), (ii) the provisions regarding contributions to
the capital of GGP-TRS II, (iii) the last sentence of Section 3.1(d) regarding
reimbursement by TRS for amounts paid by GGPLP under the GGPLP Guaranty, (iv)
the provisions regarding delivery of reports and financial statements, (v) the
provision regarding confidentiality and nonuse of information as it pertains to
information about the WV Property and (vi) the

-4-

provisions regarding the Unit Contribution (as defined in the Existing GGP-TRS
II Operating Agreement).

     3. AMENDMENT TO SCHEDULE I. Schedule I of the Existing Operating Agreement
is hereby amended by deleting the reference to Gardner, Carton & Douglas and its
address and inserting the following in lieu thereof:

     "Holland & Knight LLP
     131 South Dearborn Street
     30th Floor
     Chicago, Illinois 60603
     Attn: James T. Mayer
     Telephone: 312/715-5841
     Facsimile: 312/578-6666"

     4. NO OTHER CHANGES; ETC. Except as specifically set forth herein, the
Existing Operating Agreement and Existing GGP-TRS II Operating Agreement shall
remain in full force and effect (it being understood that the parties intend to
dissolve and terminate GGP-TRS II shortly after the date hereof). Any references
in either such document to "hereunder" or "herein" or other terms of similar
import shall mean such document, as amended hereby.

     5. GOVERNING LAW. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made
under the laws of the State of Delaware (without regard to its conflicts of law
principles).

     6. COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, each of
which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute the same
document.

     7. BINDING EFFECT. This Amendment shall be binding upon, and inure to the
benefit of, the parties and their respective successors and assigns.

                  [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

-5-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment on the
date first written above.

                                        GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
                                        a Delaware limited partnership

                                        By: General Growth Properties, Inc.,
                                            a Delaware corporation, its general
                                            partner

By: /s/ Linda J. Wight
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Linda J. Wight, Assistant Secretary

TEACHERS' RETIREMENT SYSTEM OF THE STATE
                                        OF ILLINOIS

                                        By: Commonwealth Realty Advisors, Inc.,
                                            as attorney-in-fact under power of
                                            attorney

By: /s/ Mark Kirincich
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Mark Kirincich, President

GGP-TRS L.L.C., a Delaware limited
                                        liability company

                                        By: GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware
                                            limited partnership, its managing
                                            member

                                        By: General Growth Properties, Inc., a
                                            Delaware corporation, its general
                                            partner

By: /s/ Linda J. Wight
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Linda J. Wight, Assistant Secretary

GGP-TRS II L.L.C.,
                                        a Delaware limited liability company

                                        By: GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware
                                            limited partnership, its managing
                                            member

                                        By: General Growth Properties, Inc., a
                                            Delaware corporation, its general
                                            partner

By: /s/ Linda J. Wight
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Linda J. Wight, Assistant Secretary

-2-

</EX-10.26>

<EX-10.31>
 27
 c02442exv10w31.txt
 FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 10.31

                         GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.
                        RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT

     THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of < > (the "Grant Date")
by and between GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the
"Company"), and < > < > (the "Employee").

     WHEREAS, the Company desires to reward the Employee for her continuing
efforts on behalf of the Company by awarding him restricted shares (the
"Restricted Shares") of common stock, $.01 par value, of the Company (the
"Common Stock"), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the General
Growth Properties, Inc. 2003 Incentive Stock Plan (the "2003 Plan") and the
terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this Agreement.

     NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto,
intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:

     1. Award of Shares. In accordance with the terms of the 2003 Plan which are
hereby incorporated herein, the Company hereby awards to the Employee, subject
to the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in this Agreement,
< > shares of Common Stock ("Restricted Shares") as of the Grant Date.

     2. Rights of Stockholder. Employee shall have all of the rights of a
stockholder with respect to the Restricted Shares (including the right to vote
the Restricted Shares and the right to receive dividends with respect to the
Restricted Shares; provided, however, that dividends paid with respect to
Restricted Shares which have not yet vested at the time of the dividend payments
shall be held in the custody of the Company and shall be subject to the same
restrictions that apply to the corresponding Restricted Shares), except for the
right to transfer the Restricted Shares as provided on Section 3 and Section 5
hereof.

     3. Restrictions on Transfer. Except as otherwise provided in this
Agreement, Employee may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or
otherwise dispose of any portion of the Restricted Shares or the rights granted
hereunder (any such disposition or encumbrance being referred to herein as a
"transfer") until such portion of the Restricted Shares becomes vested in
accordance with Section 4 of this Agreement. Any transfer or purported transfer
by Employee of any of the Restricted Shares shall be null and void and the
Company shall not recognize or give effect to such transfer on its books and
records or recognize the person to whom such purported transfer has been made as
the legal or beneficial holder of such shares. The Restricted Shares shall not
be subject to sale, execution, pledge, attachment, encumbrance or other process
and no person shall be entitled to exercise any rights of Employee as the holder
of such Restricted Shares by virtue of any attempted execution, attachment or
other process until the restrictions imposed herein on the transfer of the
Restricted Shares shall lapse as provided in Section 4 hereof.

If and when the restrictions imposed herein on the transfer of Restricted
Shares shall have lapsed as provided in Section 4 hereof, such shares shall be
delivered to the Employee. Until such restrictions have lapsed, any certificates
representing any Restricted Shares shall be held in custody by the Company.

     4. Lapse of Restrictions.

          (a) The interest of the Employee in the Restricted Shares shall vest
as to 1/3, 1/3 and 1/3 shares of such Restricted Shares on each of < >,
< >, and < >, so as to be 100% vested on < >, so long as the Employee continues to be employed by the Company, its
Affiliates and Subsidiaries on each such date.

          (b) If the Employee's employment with the Company or any of its
Affiliates or Subsidiaries is terminated for any reason which does not give rise
to 100% vesting of the Restricted Shares, the balance of the Restricted Shares
subject to the provisions of this Agreement which have not vested at the time of
the Employee's termination of employment shall be forfeited by the Employee and
ownership shall be transferred back to the Company.

          (c) Notwithstanding Section 4(a) hereof, in the event of a Change in
Control, the restrictions on transfer imposed by Section 3 on the Restricted
Shares shall lapse.

     5. Transferability. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to
the contrary, Restricted Shares are not transferable or assignable by the
Employee until the restrictions thereon have lapsed.

     6. Adjustment Provisions. If, during the term of this Agreement, there
shall be any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, stock
dividend, stock split, extraordinary distribution with respect to the Common
Stock, or other change in corporate structure affecting the Common Stock, the
Committee shall make or cause to be made an appropriate and equitable
substitution or adjustment with respect to the Restricted Shares, including a
substitution or adjustment in the aggregate number or kind of shares subject to
this Agreement, notwithstanding that the Restricted Shares are subject to the
restrictions on transfer imposed by Section 3 above.

     7. Taxes. As a condition precedent to the receipt of any Restricted Shares
hereunder, Employee agrees to pay to the Company, at such times as the Company
shall determine, such amounts as the Company shall deem necessary to satisfy any
withholding taxes due on income that Employee recognizes as a result of the
award of the Restricted Shares hereunder. The obligations of the Company under
this Agreement and the 2003 Plan shall be conditional on such payment or
arrangements, and the Company, its Affiliates and Subsidiaries shall, to the
extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any
payment otherwise due to the Employee.

     8. Registration. This grant is subject to the condition that if at any time
the Committee shall determine, in its discretion, that the listing of the shares
of Common Stock subject hereto on any securities exchange, or the registration
or qualification of such shares under any federal or state law, or the consent
or approval of any regulatory body, shall be necessary or desirable as a
condition of, or in connection with, the grant, receipt or delivery of shares
hereunder, such grant, receipt or delivery will not be effected unless and until
such listing,

-2-

registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or
obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee. The Company
agrees to make every reasonable effort to effect or obtain any such listing,
registration, qualification, consent or approval.

     9. Rights of Employee. In no event shall the granting of the Restricted
Shares or the other provisions hereof or the acceptance of the Restricted Shares
by Employee interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company, an
Affiliate or Subsidiary to terminate Employee's employment at any time, nor
confer upon Employee any right to continue in the employ of the Company, an
Affiliate or Subsidiary for any period of time or to continue their present or
any other rate of compensation.

     10. Construction.

          (a) Successors. This Agreement and all the terms and provisions hereof
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and
their respective legal representatives, heirs and successors, except as
expressly herein otherwise provided.

          (b) Entire Agreement; Modification. This Agreement contains the entire
understanding between the parties with respect to the matters referred to
herein. Subject to Section 15 of the 2003 Plan, this Agreement may be amended by
the Committee.

          (c) Capitalized Terms; Headings; Pronouns; Governing Law. Capitalized
terms used and not otherwise defined herein are deemed to have the same meanings
as in the 2003 Plan. The descriptive headings of the respective Sections and
subsections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and
shall not be deemed to modify or construe the provisions which follow them. Any
use of any masculine pronoun shall include the feminine and vice-versa and any
use of a singular, the plural and vice-versa, as the context and facts may
require. The construction and interpretation of this Agreement shall be governed
in all respects by the laws of the State of Delaware.

          (d) Notices. All communications between the parties shall be in
writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given as of the date and time of
hand delivery or three days after mailing via certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, proper postage prepaid to the following or such other
addresses of which the parties shall from time to time notify one another.

          (1) If to the Company:  General Growth Properties, Inc.
                                  110 North Wacker Drive
                                  Chicago, Illinois 60606

          (2) If to the Employee: < > < >
                                  c/o General Growth Properties, Inc.
                                  110 North Wacker Drive
                                  Chicago, Illinois 60606

-3-

(e) Severability. Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement
shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under
applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement or the application
thereof to any party or circumstance shall be prohibited by or invalid under
applicable law, such provision shall be ineffective to the minimal extent of
such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement or the application
of such provision to other parties or circumstances.

          (f) Counterpart Execution. This Agreement may be executed in
counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which, when
taken together, shall constitute the entire document.

          Dated as of the ____ day of __________, 2006.

                                        GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.

By:
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            John Bucksbaum
                                            Chief Executive Officer

EMPLOYEE

----------------------------------------
                                        < > < >

-4-

</EX-10.31>

<EX-21>
 28
 c02442exv21.txt
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit 21

FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF ACTIVE SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT. CERTAIN
SUBSIDIARIES THAT ARE INACTIVE, HAVE INSIGNIFICANT ASSETS OR EXIST SOLELY TO
PROTECT BUSINESS NAMES BUT DO NOT CONDUCT BUSINESS HAVE BEEN OMITTED. THE
OMITTED SUBSIDIARIES, CONSIDERED IN THE AGGREGATE, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A
SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARY.

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
10 CCC BUSINESS TRUST                                                MARYLAND
10000 WEST CHARLESTON BOULEVARD, LLC                                 NEVADA
10450 WEST CHARLESTON BOULEVARD, LLC                                 NEVADA
1450 CENTER CROSSING DRIVE, LLC                                      DELAWARE
1451 CENTER CROSSING DRIVE, LLC                                      DELAWARE
1551 HILLSHIRE DRIVE, LLC                                            DELAWARE
1645 VILLAGE CENTER CIRCLE, LLC                                      DELAWARE
170 RETAIL ASSOCIATES, LTD.                                          TEXAS
20 CCC BUSINESS TRUST                                                MARYLAND
30 CCC BUSINESS TRUST                                                MARYLAND
500 WEST ASSOCIATES, LLC                                             UTAH
A/T ROUSE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, THE                                   DELAWARE
ACB PARKING BUSINESS TRUST                                           MARYLAND
ALAMEDA MALL ASSOCIATES                                              ILLINOIS
ALAMEDA MALL, L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
ALDERWOOD MALL  L.L.C.                                               DELAWARE
ALDERWOOD MALL HOLDING, L.L.C.                                       DELAWARE
ALTAMONTE MALL VENTURE                                               FLORIDA
ALTAMONTE SPRINGS MALL II, L.P.                                      DELAWARE
ALTAMONTE SPRINGS MALL L.L.C.                                        DELAWARE
ALTAMONTE SPRINGS MALL, L.P.                                         DELAWARE
AMERICAN CITY COMPANY, LLC, THE                                      MARYLAND
AU MANAGEMENT COMPANY, LLC                                           TEXAS
AUGUSTA MALL PARTNERSHIP                                             GEORGIA
AUGUSTA MALL, LLC                                                    MARYLAND
AUSTIN MALL LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                      DELAWARE
AUSTIN MALL, LLC                                                     MARYLAND
BAKERSFIELD MALL LLC                                                 DELAWARE
BAKERSFIELD MALL, INC.                                               DELAWARE
BALTIMORE CENTER ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                      MARYLAND
BALTIMORE CENTER GARAGE ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP               MARYLAND
BALTIMORE CENTER, LLC                                                DELAWARE
BAY CITY MALL ASSOCIATES L.L.C.                                      MICHIGAN
BAY SHORE MALL II L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
BAY SHORE MALL PARTNERS                                              CALIFORNIA
BAY SHORE MALL, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
BAYBROOK ANCHOR ACQUISITION, LLC                                     DELAWARE
BAYBROOK ANCHOR ACQUISITION, LP                                      DELAWARE
BAYBROOK MALL, L.P.                                                  DELAWARE
BAYSIDE CENTER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                   MARYLAND
BEACHWOOD PLACE GP SPE L.L.C.                                        DELAWARE
BEACHWOOD PLACE GP, L.L.C.                                           DELAWARE
BEACHWOOD PLACE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                  OHIO

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
BEACHWOOD PLACE LP, L.L.C.                                           DELAWARE
BEACHWOOD PLACE, LLC                                                 MARYLAND
BEACHWOOD PROPERTY HOLDINGS, LLC                                     MARYLAND
BELLIS FAIR PARTNERS                                                 WASHINGTON
BENSON PARK BUSINESS TRUST                                           MARYLAND
BEVERAGE OPERATIONS, INC.                                            TEXAS
BEXAR MCCRELESS L.L.C.                                               DELAWARE
BIRCHWOOD MALL PARTNERS L.L.C.                                       MICHIGAN
BIRCHWOOD MALL, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
BOISE MALL, LLC                                                      DELAWARE
BOISE TOWN SQUARE ANCHOR ACQUISITION, LLC                            DELAWARE
BOISE TOWNE PLAZA L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
BOSSIER OUTPARCEL, L.P.                                              DELAWARE
BOULEVARD ASSOCIATES                                                 NEVADA
BOULEVARD MALL I LLC                                                 NEVADA
BOULEVARD MALL II LLC                                                NEVADA
BOULEVARD MALL, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
BRIDGELAND GP, LLC                                                   DELAWARE
BRIDGEWATER COMMONS MALL DEVELOPMENT, LLC                            MARYLAND
BRIDGEWATER COMMONS MALL II, LLC                                     DELAWARE
BRIDGEWATER COMMONS MALL, LLC                                        MARYLAND
BROOKSIDE/COLUMBIA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                               MARYLAND
BTS PROPERTIES L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
BURLINGTON ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                            MARYLAND
BURLINGTON TOWN CENTER II LLC                                        DELAWARE
BURLINGTON TOWN CENTER LLC, THE                                      DELAWARE
C.V. CENTER, INC.                                                    DELAWARE
CALEDONIAN HOLDING COMPANY, INC.                                     DELAWARE
CAPITAL MALL L.L.C.                                                  DELAWARE
CAPITAL MALL, INC.                                                   DELAWARE
CAROLINA PLACE L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
CAYAPAS EMPREENDIMENTOS IMOBILIARIOS LTDA                            BRAZIL
CENTER POINTE PLAZA LLC                                              NEVADA
CENTURY PLAZA L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
CENTURY PLAZA, INC.                                                  DELAWARE
CHAMPAIGN MARKET PLACE L.L.C.                                        DELAWARE
CHAMPAIGN MARKET PLACE, INC.                                         DELAWARE
CHAPEL HILLS MALL L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
CHATTANOOGA MALL, INC.                                               DELAWARE
CHESAPEAKE INVESTORS, LLC                                            DELAWARE
CHICO MALL L.L.C.                                                    DELAWARE
CHICO MALL, L.P.                                                     DELAWARE
CHRISTIANA ACQUISITION LLC                                           DELAWARE
CHRISTIANA HOLDINGS I LLC                                            DELAWARE
CHRISTIANA MALL LLC                                                  DELAWARE
CLACKAMAS MALL L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
CLOVER ACQUISITIONS LLC                                              DELAWARE

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
CM THEATRE BUSINESS TRUST                                            MARYLAND
CMA ACCESS COMPANY, LLC                                              MARYLAND
CM-H BUSINESS TRUST                                                  MARYLAND
CMI CORPORATE PARKING BUSINESS TRUST                                 MARYLAND
CM-N BUSINESS TRUST                                                  MARYLAND
COASTLAND CENTER, INC.                                               DELAWARE
COASTLAND CENTER, L.P.                                               DELAWARE
COLLIN CREEK MALL, LP                                                TEXAS
COLLIN CREEK PLANO, LLC                                              MARYLAND
COLLIN CREEK, LLC                                                    DELAWARE
COLONY SQUARE LAND L.L.C.                                            DELAWARE
COLONY SQUARE MALL L.L.C.                                            DELAWARE
COLUMBIA CROSSING, LLC                                               MARYLAND
COLUMBIA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, THE                                MARYLAND
COLUMBIA GATEWAY, LLC                                                MARYLAND
COLUMBIA LAND HOLDINGS, INC.                                         MARYLAND
COLUMBIA MALL BUSINESS TRUST                                         MARYLAND
COLUMBIA MALL L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
COLUMBIA MALL SPE, LLC                                               MARYLAND
COLUMBIA MALL, INC.                                                  MARYLAND
COLUMBIA MANAGEMENT, INC.                                            MARYLAND
CORONADO CENTER HOLDING L.L.C.                                       DELAWARE
CORONADO CENTER L.L.C.                                               DELAWARE
CROCKER DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATES                              FLORIDA
CROCKER MIZNER PARK III, LTD.                                        FLORIDA
CROCKER MIZNER PARK IV, LTD.                                         FLORIDA
CROSSROADS MALL LAND, INC., THE                                      DELAWARE
DAYJAY ASSOCIATES                                                    OKLAHOMA
DELTA INVESTMENTS LTD.                                               NEVADA
DESARROLLOS COMERCIALES DEL OESTE GSG, SRL                           COSTA RICA
DK BURLINGTON TOWN CENTER LLC                                        DELAWARE
EAGLE RIDGE MALL, INC.                                               DELAWARE
EAGLE RIDGE MALL, L.P.                                               DELAWARE
EAST MESA LAND L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
EAST MESA MALL L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
EASTRIDGE SHOPPING CENTER L.L.C.                                     DELAWARE
EASTRIDGE SHOPPING CENTER, INC.                                      DELAWARE
ECHELON ACQUISITION LLC                                              MARYLAND
ECHELON MALL JOINT VENTURE                                           NEW JERSEY
ECHELON MALL LLC                                                     MARYLAND
EDEN PRAIRIE ANCHOR BUILDING L.L.C.                                  DELAWARE
EDEN PRAIRIE MALL L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
EDEN PRAIRIE MALL, INC.                                              DELAWARE
EIGHTY COLUMBIA CORPORATE CENTER, INC.                               MARYLAND
EIGHTY COLUMBIA CORPORATE CENTER, LLC                                MARYLAND
ELK GROVE TOWN CENTER L.L.C.                                         DELAWARE
ELK GROVE TOWN CENTER, L.P.                                          DELAWARE

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
EMERSON LAND BUSINESS TRUST                                          MARYLAND
EMERSON LAND, LLC                                                    DELAWARE
FAIRWOOD COMMERCIAL FRONT FOOT BENEFIT COMPANY, LLC                  MARYLAND
FAIRWOOD-ENDEAVOR FRONT-FOOT BENEFIT COMPANY, LLC                    MARYLAND
FAIRWOOD-FOUR FRONT-FOOT BENEFIT COMPANY, LLC                        MARYLAND
FAIRWOOD-GGP FRONT-FOOT BENEFIT COMPANY LLC                          MARYLAND
FAIRWOOD-PROMISE FRONT-FOOT BENEFIT COMPANY, LLC                     MARYLAND
FAIRWOOD-PROSPECT FRONT-FOOT BENEFIT COMPANY, LLC                    MARYLAND
FAIRWOOD-THREE FRONT-FOOT BENEFIT COMPANY, LLC                       MARYLAND
FALLBROOK SQUARE PARTNERS II, L.P.                                   DELAWARE
FALLBROOK SQUARE PARTNERS L.L.C.                                     DELAWARE
FALLBROOK SQUARE PARTNERS LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                        CALIFORNIA
FALLBROOK SQUARE, INC.                                               DELAWARE
FANEUIL HALL BEVERAGE, LLC                                           MARYLAND
FANEUIL HALL MARKETPLACE, LLC                                        DELAWARE
FASHION PLACE, LLC                                                   DELAWARE
FASHION SHOW DEVELOPMENT LLC                                         NEVADA
FASHION SHOW MALL LLC                                                DELAWARE
FBC & G LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                          MARYLAND
FIFTY COLUMBIA CORPORATE CENTER, INC.                                MARYLAND
FIFTY COLUMBIA CORPORATE CENTER, LLC                                 MARYLAND
FLORENCE MALL L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
FORTY COLUMBIA CORPORATE CENTER, INC.                                MARYLAND
FORTY COLUMBIA CORPORATE CENTER, LLC                                 MARYLAND
FOUR OWINGS MILL CORPORATE CENTER ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP     MARYLAND
FOUR OWINGS MILL CORPORATE CENTER LAND LIMITED PARTNERSHIP           MARYLAND
FOUR OWINGS MILLS CORPORATE CENTER, LLC                              MARYLAND
FOUR STATE FACILITY CORPORATION                                      DELAWARE
FOUR STATE PROPERTIES, LLC                                           DELAWARE
FOX RIVER PLAZA NORTH L.L.C.                                         DELAWARE
FOX RIVER SHOPPING CENTER L.L.P.                                     WISCONSIN
FRANKLIN PARK MALL COMPANY, LLC                                      MARYLAND
FRANKLIN PARK MALL, LLC                                              DELAWARE
FS ENTERTAINMENT LLC                                                 NEVADA
FS ENTERTAINMENT, INC.                                               NEVADA
GALLERY AT MARKET EAST LLC                                           DELAWARE
GATEWAY CROSSING L.L.C.                                              DELAWARE
GATEWAY INVESTOR, LLC                                                MARYLAND
GATEWAY RETAIL CENTER, LLC                                           MARYLAND
GEAPE III, INC.                                                      MARYLAND
GEAPE III, LLC                                                       MARYLAND
GEAPE LAND HOLDINGS II, INC.                                         MARYLAND
GEAPE LAND HOLDINGS, INC.                                            MARYLAND
GEAPE LAND HOLDINGS, LLC                                             MARYLAND
GENERAL GROWTH - WESTLAKE (GP), INC.                                 DELAWARE
GENERAL GROWTH - WESTLAKE, L.P.                                      DELAWARE
GENERAL GROWTH 170 (GP), LLC                                         DELAWARE

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
GENERAL GROWTH 170, LP                                               DELAWARE
GENERAL GROWTH BAYBROOK MALL, INC.                                   DELAWARE
GENERAL GROWTH FINANCE SPE, INC.                                     DELAWARE
GENERAL GROWTH MANAGEMENT, INC.                                      DELAWARE
GENERAL GROWTH OAK VIEW MALL, INC.                                   DELAWARE
GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES, INC.                                      DELAWARE
GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES-NATICK II, INC.                            DELAWARE
GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES-NATICK LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                 DELAWARE
GENERAL GROWTH SUGAR LAND MALL, INC.                                 DELAWARE
GENERAL GROWTH WILLOWBROOK L.L.C.                                    DELAWARE
GENERAL GROWTH WOODLANDS ONE, INC.                                   TEXAS
GENERAL GROWTH WOODLANDS TWO, INC.                                   DELAWARE
GG DR, L.L.C.                                                        ILLINOIS
GGMI MALLIBU, INC.                                                   DELAWARE
GGP - BRIDGELAND, LP                                                 MARYLAND
GGP 110 HOLDING L.L.C.                                               DELAWARE
GGP 110 L.L.C.                                                       DELAWARE
GGP 110, INC.                                                        DELAWARE
GGP ACQUISITION, L.L.C.                                              DELAWARE
GGP ALA MOANA HOLDINGS L.L.C.                                        DELAWARE
GGP ALA MOANA L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
GGP ALA MOANA, INC.                                                  DELAWARE
GGP AMERICAN HOLDINGS INC.                                           DELAWARE
GGP AMERICAN PROPERTIES INC.                                         DELAWARE
GGP BOSSIER MALL, INC.                                               DELAWARE
GGP BRASIL PARTICIPACOES LTDA.                                       BRAZIL
GGP BRAZIL I L.L.C.                                                  DELAWARE
GGP BRAZIL II L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
GGP FINANCE SUB, INC.                                                DELAWARE
GGP GENERAL I, INC.                                                  DELAWARE
GGP GENERAL II, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
GGP HOLDING II SERVICES, INC.                                        DELAWARE
GGP HOLDING II, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
GGP HOLDING SERVICES, INC.                                           DELAWARE
GGP HOLDING, INC.                                                    DELAWARE
GGP INTERNATIONAL, LLC                                               DELAWARE
GGP IVANHOE II, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
GGP IVANHOE III SERVICES, INC.                                       DELAWARE
GGP IVANHOE IV SERVICES, INC.                                        DELAWARE
GGP IVANHOE IV, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
GGP IVANHOE SERVICES, INC.                                           DELAWARE
GGP IVANHOE, INC.                                                    DELAWARE
GGP JORDAN CREEK L.L.C.                                              DELAWARE
GGP KAPIOLANI DEVELOPMENT INC.                                       DELAWARE
GGP KAPIOLANI DEVELOPMENT, L.L.C.                                    DELAWARE
GGP KNOLLWOOD MALL, LP                                               DELAWARE
GGP LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                              DELAWARE

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
GGP MEADOWS MALL L.L.C.                                              DELAWARE
GGP MEZZANINE ONE L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
GGP MEZZANINE THREE L.L.C.                                           DELAWARE
GGP MEZZANINE TWO L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
GGP NATICK RESIDENCE LLC                                             DELAWARE
GGP TURKEY CONSORTIUM, LLC                                           DELAWARE
GGP TURKEY INVESTCO, LLC                                             DELAWARE
GGP TURKEY MANAGEMENT, LLC                                           DELAWARE
GGP VENTURES BRAZIL HOLDING L.L.C.                                   DELAWARE
GGP VENTURES COSTA RICA, L.L.C.                                      DELAWARE
GGP VILLAGE AT JORDAN CREEK L.L.C.                                   DELAWARE
GGP/H HOLDING, INC.                                                  DELAWARE
GGP/HOMART II L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
GGP/HOMART II SERVICES, INC.                                         DELAWARE
GGP/HOMART SERVICES, INC.                                            DELAWARE
GGP/HOMART, INC.                                                     DELAWARE
GGP-ARROWHEAD, INC.                                                  DELAWARE
GGP-BAY CITY ONE, INC.                                               DELAWARE
GGP-BRASS MILL, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
GGP-BUCKLAND HILLS ONE, INC.                                         DELAWARE
GGP-BURLINGTON L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
GGP-CANAL SHOPPES L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
GGP-CAROLINA PLACE, INC.                                             DELAWARE
GGP-COLUMBIANA TRUST                                                 DELAWARE
GGP-CONCORD LAND CO., INC.                                           DELAWARE
GGP-CUMBERLAND LAND L.L.C.                                           DELAWARE
GGP-DEERBROOK ONE, INC.                                              DELAWARE
GGP-DEERBROOK TWO, INC.                                              DELAWARE
GGP-DEERBROOK, L.P.                                                  DELAWARE
GGP-FOOTHILLS L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
GGP-FOOTHILLS LAND L.L.C.                                            DELAWARE
GGP-FOUR SEASONS L.L.C.                                              DELAWARE
GGP-GATEWAY MALL L.L.C.                                              DELAWARE
GGP-GATEWAY MALL, INC.                                               DELAWARE
GGP-GLENBROOK HOLDING L.L.C.                                         DELAWARE
GGP-GLENBROOK L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
GGP-GLENDALE, INC.                                                   DELAWARE
GGP-GRANDVILLE II L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
GGP-GRANDVILLE L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
GGP-GRANDVILLE LAND L.L.C.                                           DELAWARE
GGP-KENTUCKY, INC.                                                   KENTUCKY
GGP-LA PLACE, INC.                                                   DELAWARE
GGP-LA PLACE, L.P.                                                   DELAWARE
GGP-LAKELAND, INC.                                                   DELAWARE
GGP-LAKEVIEW SQUARE, INC.                                            DELAWARE
GGP-LANSING MALL, INC.                                               DELAWARE
GGP-LINCOLNSHIRE L.L.C.                                              DELAWARE

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
GGPLP L.L.C.                                                         DELAWARE
GGP-MAINE MALL HOLDING L.L.C.                                        DELAWARE
GGP-MAINE MALL L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
GGP-MAINE MALL LAND, L.L.C.                                          DELAWARE
GGP-MALL OF LOUISIANA II, L.P.                                       DELAWARE
GGP-MALL OF LOUISIANA, INC.                                          DELAWARE
GGP-MALL OF LOUISIANA, L.P.                                          DELAWARE
GGP-MINT HILL, L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
GGP-MORENO VALLEY, INC.                                              DELAWARE
GGP-NATICK SERVICES, INC.                                            DELAWARE
GGP-NATICK TRUST                                                     MASSACHUSETTS
GGP-NATICK WEST L.L.C.                                               DELAWARE
GGP-NESHAMINY TRUST                                                  DELAWARE
GGP-NEWGATE MALL, INC.                                               DELAWARE
GGP-NEWPARK L.L.C.                                                   DELAWARE
GGP-NEWPARK, INC.                                                    DELAWARE
GGP-NORTH POINT, INC.                                                DELAWARE
GGP-NORTHBROOK, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
GGP-OTAY RANCH L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
GGP-OTAY RANCH, L.P.                                                 DELAWARE
GGP-PARAMUS PARK MALL, LLC                                           DELAWARE
GGP-PARKS AT ARLINGTON ONE, INC.                                     DELAWARE
GGP-PARKS AT ARLINGTON TWO, INC.                                     DELAWARE
GGP-PECANLAND II, L.P.                                               DELAWARE
GGP-PECANLAND, INC.                                                  DELAWARE
GGP-PECANLAND, L.P.                                                  DELAWARE
GGP-PEMBROKE LAKES II, INC.                                          DELAWARE
GGP-PEMBROKE LAKES, INC.                                             DELAWARE
GGP-REDLANDS MALL L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
GGP-REDLANDS, MALL L.P.                                              DELAWARE
GGP-RIVERCHASE L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
GGP-ROCHESTER MALL, INC.                                             DELAWARE
GGP-ROGERS RETAIL L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
GGP-SHAVANO PARK, INC.                                               DELAWARE
GGP-SIKES SENTER L.L.C.                                              DELAWARE
GGP-SL L.L.C.                                                        DELAWARE
GGP-SLH L.L.C.                                                       DELAWARE
GGP-SOUTH SHORE PARTNERS, INC.                                       DELAWARE
GGP-STEEPLEGATE, INC.                                                DELAWARE
GGP-SUGAR LAND MALL, L.P.                                            DELAWARE
GGP-SUPERSTITION SPRINGS, INC.                                       DELAWARE
GGP-TOWN EAST MALL, INC.                                             DELAWARE
GGP-TRS L.L.C.                                                       DELAWARE
GGP-TRS SERVICES, INC.                                               DELAWARE
GGP-TUCSON LAND L.L.C.                                               DELAWARE
GGP-TUCSON MALL L.L.C.                                               DELAWARE
GGP-TYLER MALL L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
GGP-UC L.L.C.                                                        DELAWARE
GGP-VISTA RIDGE, INC.                                                DELAWARE
GGP-WESTWOOD MALL, INC.                                              DELAWARE
GGP-WILLOWBROOK, INC.                                                DELAWARE
GGP-WILLOWBROOK, L.P.                                                DELAWARE
GGP-WOODLANDS, L.P.                                                  DELAWARE
GLENDALE ANCHOR ACQUISITION, LLC                                     DELAWARE
GLENDALE HOLDING, INC.                                               DELAWARE
GLENDALE HOLDING, L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
GLENDALE I MALL ASSOCIATES, LLC                                      DELAWARE
GLENDALE II MALL ASSOCIATES, LLC                                     DELAWARE
GLENDALE OHRBACH'S ASSOCIATES, LLC                                   DELAWARE
GOVERNOR'S SQUARE PARTNERSHIP                                        FLORIDA
GOVERNOR'S SQUARE, LLC                                               FLORIDA
GRAND AVENUE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                     MARYLAND
GRAND CANAL SHOPS II, LLC                                            DELAWARE
GRAND TRAVERSE MALL HOLDING, INC.                                    DELAWARE
GRAND TRAVERSE MALL PARTNERS, LP                                     DELAWARE
GRANDVILLE MALL II, INC.                                             DELAWARE
GRANDVILLE MALL, INC.                                                DELAWARE
GREENGATE MALL, INC.                                                 PENNSYLVANIA
GREENWOOD MALL L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
GREENWOOD MALL, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
GSG DE COSTA RICA, SRL                                               BARBADOS
GUILFORD INDUSTRIAL CENTER, LLC                                      MARYLAND
HAMMOND BRANCH JOINT VENTURE                                         MARYLAND
HARBOR OVERLOOK LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                  MARYLAND
HARBOR PLACE ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                          MARYLAND
HARBORPLACE MANAGEMENT COMPANY, LLC                                  MARYLAND
HARBORPLACE, INC.                                                    MARYLAND
HARBORPLACE, LLC                                                     MARYLAND
HARPER'S CHOICE BUSINESS TRUST                                       MARYLAND
HAWKEYE PROPERTIES, INC.                                             NEVADA
HCTSS L.L.C.                                                         DELAWARE
HEAD ACQUISITION, LP                                                 DELAWARE
HEX HOLDING, LLC                                                     DELAWARE
HEXALON REAL ESTATE, INC.                                            DELAWARE
HHP GOVERNMENT SERVICES, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                         NEVADA
HICKORY GROVE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                    MARYLAND
HICKORY RIDGE VILLAGE CENTER, INC.                                   MARYLAND
HICKORY RIDGE VILLAGE CENTER, LLC                                    MARYLAND
HIGHLAND MALL JOINT VENTURE, THE                                     NEW YORK
HIGHLAND MALL LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                    TEXAS
HMF PROPERTIES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                   DELAWARE
HO RETAIL PROPERTIES I LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                           ILLINOIS
HO RETAIL PROPERTIES II LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                          ILLINOIS
HOCKER OXMOOR PARTNERS, LLC                                          KENTUCKY

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
HOCKER OXMOOR, LLC                                                   DELAWARE
HOOVER MALL HOLDING, L.L.C.                                          DELAWARE
HOOVER MALL LIMITED, L.L.C.                                          DELAWARE
HOWARD HUGHES CANYON POINTE Q4, LLC                                  NEVADA
HOWARD HUGHES CENTERPOINT, LLC                                       NEVADA
HOWARD HUGHES CORPORATION, THE                                       DELAWARE
HOWARD HUGHES PROPERTIES I, LLC                                      NEVADA
HOWARD HUGHES PROPERTIES II, LLC                                     NEVADA
HOWARD HUGHES PROPERTIES III, LLC                                    NEVADA
HOWARD HUGHES PROPERTIES IV, LLC                                     DELAWARE
HOWARD HUGHES PROPERTIES V, LLC                                      DELAWARE
HOWARD HUGHES PROPERTIES VII, LLC                                    NEVADA
HOWARD HUGHES PROPERTIES, INC.                                       NEVADA
HOWARD HUGHES PROPERTIES, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                        DELAWARE
HOWARD RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, THE                     MARYLAND
HOWARD RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT HOLDINGS CORPORATION, THE            MARYLAND
HOWARD RETAIL INVESTMENT COMPANY, LLC                                MARYLAND
HRD COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES, INC.                                      MARYLAND
HRD PARKING DECK BUSINESS TRUST                                      MARYLAND
HRD PARKING, INC.                                                    MARYLAND
HRD PARKING, LLC                                                     MARYLAND
HRD PROPERTIES, INC.                                                 MARYLAND
HRD REMAINDER, INC.                                                  MARYLAND
HRDHC, LLC                                                           MARYLAND
HRE FLANC, INC.                                                      DELAWARE
HRE KI PARTNERS, LP                                                  DELAWARE
HRE KI SMBT                                                          DELAWARE
HRE PENNSYLVANIA SMBT                                                DELAWARE
HRE-NS, LLC                                                          DELAWARE
H-TEX, INCORPORATED                                                  TEXAS
HUGHES CORPORATION, THE                                              DELAWARE
HUGHES PROPERTIES, INC.                                              NEVADA
HULEN GP LLC                                                         DELAWARE
HULEN MALL JOINT VENTURE                                             TEXAS
HULEN OWNER, LP                                                      DELAWARE
HUNT VALLEY TITLE HOLDING COMPANY, LLC                               MARYLAND
JPT LIMITED                                                          NEVADA
KALAMAZOO MALL L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
KALAMAZOO MALL, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
KENWOOD MALL HOLDING, LLC                                            DELAWARE
KENWOOD MALL L.L.C.                                                  DELAWARE
KING'S CONTRIVANCE VILLAGE CENTER, LLC                               MARYLAND
KNOLLWOOD MALL, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
LA CANTERA HOLDING GP, LLC                                           DELAWARE
LA CANTERA HOLDING, LP                                               DELAWARE
LA CANTERA RETAIL LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                TEXAS
LA PLACE SHOPPING, L.P.                                              DELAWARE

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
LAKE MEADE & BUFFALO PARTNERSHIP                                     NEVADA
LAKEFRONT NORTH PARKING, INC.                                        MARYLAND
LAKEFRONT NORTH PARKING, LLC                                         MARYLAND
LAKESIDE MALL PROPERTY LLC                                           DELAWARE
LAKESIDE MALL, LLC                                                   MICHIGAN
LAKEVIEW SQUARE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                  DELAWARE
LANCASTER TRUST                                                      ILLINOIS
LANDMARK MALL L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
LANDMARK MALL, INC.                                                  DELAWARE
LANSING MALL LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                     DELAWARE
LAND TRUST NO. 89433                                                 HAWAII
LAND TRUST NO. 89434                                                 HAWAII
LOCKPORT L.L.C.                                                      NEW YORK
LOT 48 BUSINESS TRUST                                                MARYLAND
LOT 49 BUSINESS TRUST                                                MARYLAND
LP ROUSE-HOUSTON, LLC                                                MARYLAND
LRVC BUSINESS TRUST                                                  MARYLAND
LYNNHAVEN HOLDING L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
LYNNHAVEN MALL L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
MADISON LAND L.L.C.                                                  DELAWARE
MAJESTIC PARTNERS-PROVO, LLC                                         UTAH
MALL ENTRANCES BUSINESS TRUST                                        MARYLAND
MALL IN COLUMBIA BUSINESS TRUST, THE                                 MARYLAND
MALL IN COLUMBIA HOLDING II, L.L.C., THE                             DELAWARE
MALL IN COLUMBIA HOLDING, L.L.C., THE                                DELAWARE
MALL OF THE BLUFFS PARTNERS L.L.C.                                   IOWA
MALL OF THE BLUFFS, INC.                                             DELAWARE
MALL ST. MATTHEWS COMPANY, LLC                                       DELAWARE
MALL ST. VINCENT, INC.                                               DELAWARE
MALL ST. VINCENT, L.P.                                               DELAWARE
MARKET PLACE OUTPARCEL L.L.C.                                        DELAWARE
MARKET PLACE OUTPARCEL, INC.                                         DELAWARE
MARKET STREET EAST JOINT VENTURE                                     PENNSYLVANIA
MAYFAIR PROPERTY INC.                                                DELAWARE
MERRICK PARK LLC                                                     MARYLAND
MERRICK PARK PARKING LLC                                             DELAWARE
MERRIWEATHER POST BUSINESS TRUST                                     MARYLAND
MIZNER PARK HOLDINGS I, LLC                                          DELAWARE
MIZNER PARK HOLDINGS II, LLC                                         DELAWARE
MIZNER PARK HOLDINGS III, LLC                                        DELAWARE
MIZNER PARK HOLDINGS IV, LLC                                         DELAWARE
MIZNER PARK HOLDINGS V, LLC                                          DELAWARE
MIZNER PARK VENTURE, LLC                                             DELAWARE
MJ, INC.                                                             NEVADA
MJF INVESTMENTS CORPORATION                                          NEVADA
MONDAWMIN BUSINESS TRUST                                             MARYLAND
MONDAWMIN, LLC                                                       MARYLAND

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
MONTCLAIR PLAZA L.L.C.                                               DELAWARE
MSM PROPERTY L.L.C.                                                  DELAWARE
NESHAMINY MALL JOINT VENTURE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                     ILLINOIS
NEW ORLEANS RIVERWALK ASSOCIATES                                     LOUISIANA
NEW ORLEANS RIVERWALK LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                            MARYLAND
NEW RIVER ASSOCIATES                                                 ARIZONA
NEW RIVER CENTER, LLC                                                FLORIDA
NEWPARK ANCHOR ACQUISITION, LLC                                      DELAWARE
NEWPARK MALL, L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
NORTH STAR ANCHOR ACQUISITION, LLC                                   DELAWARE
NORTH STAR ANCHOR ACQUISITION, LP                                    DELAWARE
NORTH STAR MALL II, LLC                                              MARYLAND
NORTH STAR MALL, LLC                                                 TEXAS
NORTHBROOK COURT I L.L.C.                                            DELAWARE
NORTHBROOK COURT II L.L.C.                                           DELAWARE
NORTHBROOK COURT L.L.C.                                              DELAWARE
NORTHGATE MALL L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
NORTHWEST ASSOCIATES                                                 MARYLAND
NORTHWEST OHIO MALL L.L.C.                                           DELAWARE
NS MALL GP LLC                                                       DELAWARE
NS MALL PROPERTY, LP                                                 DELAWARE
NSMJV, LP                                                            DELAWARE
O.M. INVESTMENT II LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                               MARYLAND
O.M. INVESTMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                  MARYLAND
O.M. LAND DEVELOPMENT, LLC                                           MARYLAND
O.M. MALL COMPANY, LLC                                               MARYLAND
OAK VIEW MALL L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
OAKBROOK FACILITIES CORPORATION                                      MARYLAND
OAKBROOK SHOPPING CENTER, LLC                                        DELAWARE
OAKBROOK URBAN VENTURE, LP                                           ILLINOIS
OAKLAND RIDGE COMMERCIAL GROUP, LLC                                  MARYLAND
OAKLAND RIDGE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION                     MARYLAND
OAKLAND RIDGE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT, LLC                            MARYLAND
OAKS MALL GAINESVILLE II, INC.                                       DELAWARE
OAKS MALL GAINESVILLE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                            DELAWARE
OAKWOOD HILLS MALL PARTNERS L.L.P.                                   WISCONSIN
OAKWOOD HILLS MALL, INC.                                             DELAWARE
OAKWOOD SHOPPING CENTER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                          LOUISIANA
OGLETHORPE MALL L.L.C.                                               DELAWARE
OKLAHOMA MALL L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
OKLAHOMA MALL, INC.                                                  DELAWARE
ONE OWINGS MILLS CORPORATE CENTER ASSOCIATES, LP                     MARYLAND
ONE OWINGS MILLS CORPORATE CENTER, LLC                               MARYLAND
ONE WILLOW COMPANY, LLC                                              DELAWARE
OWINGS MILLS LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                     MARYLAND
PACIFIC REALTY, INC.                                                 NEVADA
PARAMUS EQUITIES, LLC                                                TEXAS

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
PARAMUS MALL MANAGEMENT COMPANY, LLC                                 MARYLAND
PARAMUS PARK SHOPPING CENTER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                     NEW JERSEY
PARAMUS PARK, LLC                                                    MARYLAND
PARCEL C BUSINESS TRUST                                              MARYLAND
PARCEL D BUSINESS TRUST                                              MARYLAND
PARCIT-IIP LANCASTER VENTURE                                         ILLINOIS
PARCITY L.L.C.                                                       DELAWARE
PARCITY TRUST                                                        DELAWARE
PARIS PROPERTIES, INC.                                               NEVADA
PARK CITY HOLDING, INC.                                              DELAWARE
PARK MALL L.L.C.                                                     DELAWARE
PARK MALL, INC.                                                      DELAWARE
PARK SQUARE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                      MARYLAND
PARKS AT ARLINGTON, L.P.                                             DELAWARE
PARKSIDE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                         MARYLAND
PARKVIEW OFFICE BUILDING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                         MARYLAND
PAVILIONS AT BUCKLAND HILLS L.L.C.                                   CONNECTICUT
PC LANCASTER L.L.C.                                                  DELAWARE
PC LANCASTER TRUST                                                   DELAWARE
PDC COMMUNITY CENTERS L.L.C.                                         DELAWARE
PDC HOLDING, LLC                                                     DELAWARE
PDC-EASTRIDGE MALL L.L.C.                                            DELAWARE
PDC-RED CLIFFS MALL L.L.C.                                           DELAWARE
PEACHTREE MALL L.L.C                                                 DELAWARE
PEMBROKE LAKES MALL LTD.                                             FLORIDA
PERIMETER CENTER, LLC                                                MARYLAND
PERIMETER MALL FACILITIES, LLC                                       DELAWARE
PERIMETER MALL VENTURE, LLC                                          DELAWARE
PERIMETER MALL, LLC                                                  MARYLAND
PIEDMONT MALL L.L.C.                                                 VIRGINIA
PIERRE BOSSIER MALL, INC.                                            DELAWARE
PIERRE BOSSIER MALL, L.P.                                            DELAWARE
PINE RIDGE MALL L.L.C.                                               DELAWARE
PINES MALL PARTNERS                                                  IOWA
PIONEER OFFICE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                   MARYLAND
PIONEER PLACE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                    MARYLAND
PLANOLE STORE, LP                                                    TEXAS
PLYMOUTH MEETING PROPERTY LLC                                        DELAWARE
PRICE DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                       MARYLAND
PRICE FINANCING PARTNERSHIP, L.P.                                    DELAWARE
PRICE GP L.L.C.                                                      DELAWARE
PRICE JAMES COMPANY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                              UTAH
PRICE NT L.L.C.                                                      DELAWARE
PRICE SPOKANE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                    DELAWARE
PRICE-ASG L.L.C.                                                     DELAWARE
PRICE-BOISE COMPANY, LTD.                                            UTAH
PRICE-JAMES COMPANY                                                  UTAH

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
PRINCE KUHIO PLAZA, INC.                                             DELAWARE
PRINCETON LAND EAST, LLC                                             DELAWARE
PRINCETON LAND, LLC                                                  DELAWARE
PROVIDENCE PLACE HOLDING, LLC                                        DELAWARE
PROVO MALL DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, LTD.                                 UTAH
PROVO MALL L.L.C.                                                    DELAWARE
RASCAP REALTY, LTD.                                                  NEW YORK
RED ROCK INVESTMENT, LLC                                             NEVADA
REDLANDS LAND ACQUISITION COMPANY L.L.C.                             DELAWARE
REDLANDS LAND ACQUISITION COMPANY, L.P.                              DELAWARE
REDLANDS LAND HOLDING, L.L.C.                                        DELAWARE
RIDGEDALE CENTER, LLC                                                MARYLAND
RII HOLDING, LLC                                                     TEXAS
RIO WEST L.L.C.                                                      DELAWARE
RIVER HILL VILLAGE CENTER II, LLC                                    MARYLAND
RIVER HILLS MALL L.L.P.                                              MINNESOTA
RIVERS PARK ABC, LLC                                                 DELAWARE
RIVERSPARK ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                            MARYLAND
ROCHESTER MALL LLC                                                   DELAWARE
ROGERS RETAIL L.L.C.                                                 DELAWARE
ROGUE VALLEY MALL HOLDING L.L.C.                                     DELAWARE
ROGUE VALLEY MALL, L.L.C.                                            DELAWARE
ROUSE COLUMBUS SQUARE, LLC                                           MARYLAND
ROUSE COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES, LLC                                     MARYLAND
ROUSE COMPANY AT OWINGS MILLS, LLC, THE                              MARYLAND
ROUSE COMPANY BT, LLC, THE                                           MARYLAND
ROUSE COMPANY LP, THE                                                DELAWARE
ROUSE COMPANY OF FLORIDA, LLC, THE                                   FLORIDA
ROUSE COMPANY OF GEORGIA, LLC, THE                                   GEORGIA
ROUSE COMPANY OF LOUISIANA, LLC, THE                                 MARYLAND
ROUSE COMPANY OF MASSACHUSETTS, LLC, THE                             MARYLAND
ROUSE COMPANY OF MICHIGAN, LLC, THE                                  MARYLAND
ROUSE COMPANY OF MINNESOTA, LLC, THE                                 MARYLAND
ROUSE COMPANY OF NEW JERSEY, LLC, THE                                NEW JERSEY
ROUSE COMPANY OF NEW YORK, LLC, THE                                  NEW YORK
ROUSE COMPANY OF OHIO, LLC, THE                                      OHIO
ROUSE COMPANY OF OREGON, LLC, THE                                    MARYLAND
ROUSE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA, LLC, THE                              PENNSYLVANIA
ROUSE COMPANY OF TEXAS, LLC, THE                                     TEXAS
ROUSE COMPANY OF WASHINGTON, LLC, THE                                MARYLAND
ROUSE COMPANY OPERATING PARTNERSHIP LP, THE                          DELAWARE
ROUSE COMPANY PROTECTIVE TRUST, INC., THE                            DELAWARE
ROUSE F.S., LLC                                                      MARYLAND
ROUSE FASHION SHOW MANAGEMENT, LLC                                   MARYLAND
ROUSE HOLDING COMPANY OF ARIZONA, LLC, THE                           MARYLAND
ROUSE HOLDING COMPANY, LLC, THE                                      MARYLAND
ROUSE HOLDING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                    MARYLAND

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
ROUSE INVESTING COMPANY, LLC                                         MARYLAND
ROUSE INVESTMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                 MARYLAND
ROUSE IP, LLC                                                        MARYLAND
ROUSE LLC                                                            DELAWARE
ROUSE OAKBROOK, LLC                                                  DELAWARE
ROUSE OFFICE MANAGEMENT OF ARIZONA, LLC                              MARYLAND
ROUSE OFFICE MANAGEMENT OF OREGON, LLC                               MARYLAND
ROUSE OFFICE MANAGEMENT OF PENNSYLVANIA, LLC                         MARYLAND
ROUSE OFFICE MANAGEMENT, LLC                                         MARYLAND
ROUSE OWINGS MILLS MANAGEMENT COMPANY, LLC                           MARYLAND
ROUSE PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, INC.                                      MARYLAND
ROUSE PROVIDENCE LLC                                                 DELAWARE
ROUSE RIDGEDALE HOLDING, LLC                                         MARYLAND
ROUSE RIDGEDALE, LLC                                                 DELAWARE
ROUSE SI SHOPPING CENTER, LLC                                        MARYLAND
ROUSE SOUTHLAND, LLC                                                 MARYLAND
ROUSE TRANSPORTATION, LLC                                            MARYLAND
ROUSE TRI-PARTY MISCELLANEOUS, LLC                                   MARYLAND
ROUSE TRI-PARTY TRS, INC.                                            MARYLAND
ROUSE WESTIN, INC.                                                   MARYLAND
ROUSE WESTLAKE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP II                                DELAWARE
ROUSE-ABBEY, LLC                                                     MARYLAND
ROUSE-ARIZONA CENTER, LLC                                            MARYLAND
ROUSE-ARIZONA RETAIL CENTER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                      MARYLAND
ROUSE-BRIDGEWATER COMMONS, LLC                                       MARYLAND
ROUSE-BURLINGTON, LLC                                                MARYLAND
ROUSE-CORAL GABLES DEVELOPMENT, LLC                                  MARYLAND
ROUSE-EASTFIELD, LLC                                                 MARYLAND
ROUSE-FAIRWOOD DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION                               MARYLAND
ROUSE-FAIRWOOD DEVELOPMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                       MARYLAND
ROUSE-FORSYTH, LLC                                                   MARYLAND
ROUSE-GOVERNOR'S SQUARE, LLC                                         MARYLAND
ROUSE-HIGHLAND, LLC                                                  DELAWARE
ROUSE-MERCHANTWIRED, INC.                                            MARYLAND
ROUSE-MIAMI, LLC                                                     DELAWARE
ROUSE-MIZNER PARK, LLC                                               DELAWARE
ROUSE-NEW ORLEANS, LLC                                               MARYLAND
ROUSE-OAKWOOD SHOPPING CENTER, LLC                                   MARYLAND
ROUSE-OAKWOOD TWO, LLC                                               MARYLAND
ROUSE-ORLANDO, LLC                                                   DELAWARE
ROUSE-PARK MEADOWS HOLDING, LLC                                      MARYLAND
ROUSE-PARK MEADOWS, LLC                                              MARYLAND
ROUSE-PHOENIX CINEMA, LLC                                            MARYLAND
ROUSE-PHOENIX CORPORATE CENTER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                   MARYLAND
ROUSE-PHOENIX DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, LLC                               MARYLAND
ROUSE-PHOENIX HOTEL CORPORATION                                      MARYLAND
ROUSE-PHOENIX HOTEL PARKING, INC.                                    MARYLAND

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
ROUSE-PHOENIX HOTEL, LLC                                             MARYLAND
ROUSE-PHOENIX MASTER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                             MARYLAND
ROUSE-PHOENIX PARKING TWO, LLC                                       MARYLAND
ROUSE-PHOENIX PARKING, LLC                                           MARYLAND
ROUSE-PHOENIX THEATRE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                            MARYLAND
ROUSE-PHOENIX TWO CORPORATE CENTER, LLC                              MARYLAND
ROUSE-PORTLAND, LLC                                                  MARYLAND
ROUSE-RANDHURST SHOPPING CENTER, LLC                                 MARYLAND
ROUSE-RIVER HILL VILLAGE CENTER, INC.                                MARYLAND
ROUSE-SEATTLE, LLC                                                   DELAWARE
ROUSE-TOWSON TOWN CENTER, LLC                                        MARYLAND
ROUSE-TTC FUNDING, LLC                                               MARYLAND
ROUSE-URBAN ACQUISITION, LLC                                         MARYLAND
ROUSE-URBAN, LLC                                                     MARYLAND
ROUSE-WEST DADE, INC.                                                MARYLAND
ROUSE-WESTLAKE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                   MARYLAND
ROUSE-WINCOPIN, LLC                                                  MARYLAND
RREF HOLDING, LLC                                                    TEXAS
RS PROPERTIES INC.                                                   DELAWARE
RUNNING BROOK BUSINESS TRUST                                         MARYLAND
RV JOINT VENTURE                                                     FLORIDA
SAINT LOUIS GALLERIA HOLDING L.L.C.                                  DELAWARE
SAINT LOUIS GALLERIA L.L.C.                                          DELAWARE
SAINT LOUIS LAND L.L.C.                                              DELAWARE
SALEM MALL, LLC                                                      MARYLAND
SEAPORT MARKETPLACE THEATRE, LLC                                     MARYLAND
SEAPORT MARKETPLACE, LLC                                             MARYLAND
SEVENTY COLUMBIA CORPORATE CENTER LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                MARYLAND
SEVENTY COLUMBIA CORPORATE CENTER, INC.                              MARYLAND
SEVENTY COLUMBIA CORPORATE CENTER, LLC                               MARYLAND
SIKES SENTER, L.P.                                                   DELAWARE
SILVER CITY GALLERIA L.L.C.                                          DELAWARE
SIXTY COLUMBIA CORPORATE CENTER, INC.                                MARYLAND
SIXTY COLUMBIA CORPORATE CENTER, LLC                                 MARYLAND
SOONER FASHION MALL L.L.C.                                           DELAWARE
SOUTH SHORE PARTNERS, L.P.                                           WASHINGTON
SOUTH STREET SEAPORT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                             MARYLAND
SOUTHLAKE MALL L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
SOUTHLAKE MALL, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
SOUTHLAND CENTER HOLDING, LLC                                        MARYLAND
SOUTHLAND CENTER, LLC                                                DELAWARE
SOUTHLAND MALL, INC.                                                 DELAWARE
SOUTHLAND MALL, L.P.                                                 DELAWARE
SOUTHPOINT MALL, LLC                                                 DELAWARE
SOUTHWEST DENVER LAND L.L.C.                                         DELAWARE
SOUTHWEST PLAZA L.L.C.                                               DELAWARE
SPOKANE MALL DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                 UTAH

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
SPOKANE MALL L.L.C.                                                  DELAWARE
SPRING HILL MALL L.L.C.                                              DELAWARE
SPRING HILL MALL, INC.                                               DELAWARE
ST. CLOUD LAND L.LC.                                                 DELAWARE
ST. CLOUD MALL HOLDING L.L.C.                                        DELAWARE
ST. CLOUD MALL L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
STANSFIELD-LAUREL, INC.                                              MARYLAND
STERLING FINANCIAL, LTD.                                             NEVADA
STERRETT BUILDING BUSINESS TRUST                                     MARYLAND
STONE LAKE CORPORATION                                               MARYLAND
STONEBRIAR MALL (GP) L.L.C.                                          DELAWARE
STONEBRIAR MALL LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                  DELAWARE
STONEBRIAR MALL, INC.                                                DELAWARE
STONESTOWN SHOPPING CENTER HOLDING L.L.C.                            DELAWARE
STONESTOWN SHOPPING CENTER L.L.C.                                    DELAWARE
STONESTOWN SHOPPING CENTER, L.P.                                     DELAWARE
SUMMA CORPORATION                                                    DELAWARE
SUMMERLIN CENTRE, LLC                                                DELAWARE
SUMMERLIN CORPORATION                                                DELAWARE
TALLAHASSEE ASSOCIATES                                               MARYLAND
TAMPA NORTHWEST, LTD.                                                FLORIDA
TERRAPIN ACQUISITION, LLC                                            MARYLAND
THC-HRE, LLC                                                         MARYLAND
THREE OWINGS MILLS CORPORATE CENTER ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP   MARYLAND
THREE OWINGS MILLS CORPORATE CENTER LAND LIMITED PARTNERSHIP         MARYLAND
THREE OWINGS MILLS CORPORATE CENTER, LLC                             MARYLAND
THREE RIVERS MALL L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
THREE WILLOW COMPANY, LLC                                            DELAWARE
TOWN CENTER DEVELOPMENT COMPANY GP, LLC                              TEXAS
TOWN CENTER DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, LP                                  TEXAS
TOWN CENTER EAST BUSINESS TRUST                                      MARYLAND
TOWN CENTER EAST PARKING LOT BUSINESS TRUST                          MARYLAND
TOWN EAST MALL, L.P.                                                 DELAWARE
TOWSON TC, LLC                                                       MARYLAND
TRACY MALL PARTNERS I L.L.C.                                         DELAWARE
TRACY MALL PARTNERS II, L.P.                                         DELAWARE
TRACY MALL PARTNERS, L.P.                                            DELAWARE
TRACY MALL, INC.                                                     DELAWARE
TRAILS VILLAGE CENTER CO.                                            NEVADA
TRC CENTRAL, LLC                                                     MARYLAND
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 12 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 13 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 14 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 15 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 16 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 17 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 18 LLC                                            DELAWARE

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 19 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 20 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 21 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 22 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 23 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 24 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 25 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 26 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 27 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 28 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 29 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 30 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 31 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 32 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 33 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 34 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 35 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 36 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 37 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 38 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC EXTON PLYMOUTH 39 LLC                                            DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 1, LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 10, LLC                                   DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 11 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 12 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 13 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 14 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 15 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 16 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 17 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 18 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 19 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 2 LLC                                     DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 20 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 21 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 22 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 23 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 24 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 25 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 26 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 27 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 28 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 29 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 3 LLC                                     DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 30 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 31 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 32 LLC                                    DELAWARE

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 33 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 34 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 35 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 36 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 37 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 38 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 39 LLC                                    DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 4 LLC                                     DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 5 LLC                                     DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 6 LLC                                     DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 7 LLC                                     DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 8 LLC                                     DELAWARE
TRC GALLERY AT MARKET EAST 9 LLC                                     DELAWARE
TRC NJ HOLDING, LP                                                   DELAWARE
TRC PARKING BUSINESS TRUST                                           MARYLAND
TRC PROPERTY HOLDINGS, INC.                                          MARYLAND
TRC WILLOW, LLC                                                      MARYLAND
TRCGP, LLC                                                           MARYLAND
TRIANGLE BUSINESS CENTER I LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                       MARYLAND
TTC MEMBER, LLC                                                      MARYLAND
TTC SPE, LLC                                                         MARYLAND
TV INVESTMENT, LLC                                                   DELAWARE
TWC COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES, LLC                                       DELAWARE
TWC COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES, LP                                        DELAWARE
TWC LAND DEVELOPMENT, LLC                                            DELAWARE
TWC LAND DEVELOPMENT, LP                                             DELAWARE
TWC OPERATING HOLDINGS, INC.                                         DELAWARE
TWC OPERATING, LLC                                                   DELAWARE
TWC OPERATING, LP                                                    DELAWARE
TWCPC HOLDINGS GP, LLC                                               TEXAS
TWCPC HOLDINGS, L.P.                                                 TEXAS
TWLDC HOLDINGS GP, LLC                                               TEXAS
TWLDC HOLDINGS, LP                                                   TEXAS
TWO FRANKLIN PARK COMPANY, LLC                                       DELAWARE
TWO OWINGS MILLS CORPORATE CENTER ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP     MARYLAND
TWO OWINGS MILLS CORPORATE CENTER, LLC                               MARYLAND
TWO WILLOW COMPANY, LLC                                              DELAWARE
TYLER MALL LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                       DELAWARE
TYSONS GALLERIA L.L.C.                                               DELAWARE
U.K.-AMERICAN PROPERTIES, INC.                                       DELAWARE
U.K.-LASALLE, INC.                                                   DELAWARE
UC OAKBROOK GENPAR, LLC                                              DELAWARE
URBAN SHOPPING CENTERS, LP                                           ILLINOIS
VALLEY HILLS MALL L.L.C.                                             DELAWARE
VALLEY HILLS MALL, INC.                                              DELAWARE
VCK BUSINESS TRUST                                                   MARYLAND
VICTORIA WARD CENTER L.L.C.                                          DELAWARE

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
VICTORIA WARD ENTERTAINMENT CENTER L.L.C.                            DELAWARE
VICTORIA WARD SERVICES, INC.                                         DELAWARE
VICTORIA WARD, LIMITED                                               DELAWARE
VILLAGE OF CROSS KEYS, LLC, THE                                      MARYLAND
VISALIA MALL L.L.C.                                                  DELAWARE
VISALIA MALL, L.P.                                                   DELAWARE
VISTA RIDGE JOINT VENTURE, L.P.                                      DELAWARE
VISTA RIDGE MALL, INC.                                               DELAWARE
WATER TOWER JOINT VENTURE                                            ILLINOIS
WATER TOWER LLC                                                      DELAWARE
WECCR GENERAL PARTNERSHIP                                            TEXAS
WECCR, INC.                                                          TEXAS
WEEPING WILLOW RNA, LLC                                              DELAWARE
WEST KENDALL HOLDINGS, LLC                                           MARYLAND
WEST OAKS MALL TRUST                                                 DELAWARE
WESTCOAST ESTATES                                                    CALIFORNIA
WESTLAKE CENTER ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                       WASHINGTON
WESTLAKE RETAIL ASSOCIATES, LTD.                                     TEXAS
WESTROADS LAND L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
WESTROADS MALL II, INC.                                              DELAWARE
WESTROADS MALL L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
WESTWOOD LAND, L.L.C.                                                DELAWARE
WESTWOOD MALL LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                    DELAWARE
WHITE MARSH GENERAL PARTNERSHIP                                      MARYLAND
WHITE MARSH LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                      MARYLAND
WHITE MARSH MALL ASSOCIATES                                          MARYLAND
WHITE MARSH MALL, LLC                                                MARYLAND
WHITE MARSH PHASE II ASSOCIATES                                      MARYLAND
WHITELAND HOLDING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                MARYLAND
WILLOW SPE, LLC                                                      DELAWARE
WILLOWBROOK COMPANY, LLC, THE                                        MARYLAND
WILLOWBROOK II, LLC                                                  MARYLAND
WILLOWBROOK MALL COMPANY, LLC                                        DELAWARE
WILLOWBROOK MALL, LLC                                                DELAWARE
WILLOWBROOK MANAGEMENT COMPANY, LLC                                  MARYLAND
WINCOPIN RESTAURANT BUSINESS TRUST                                   MARYLAND
WOODBRIDGE CENTER PROPERTY, LLC                                      DELAWARE
WOODBRIDGE CENTER, LLC                                               MARYLAND
WOODLANDS ANCHOR ACQUISITION, LLC                                    DELAWARE
WOODLANDS ANCHOR ACQUISITION, LP                                     DELAWARE
WOODLANDS BEVERAGE, INC.                                             TEXAS
WOODLANDS BROKERAGE, LLC, THE                                        TEXAS
WOODLANDS COMMERCIAL BROKERAGE CO., LP, THE                          TEXAS
WOODLANDS COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES COMPANY, LP, THE                     TEXAS
WOODLANDS CORPORATION, THE                                           TEXAS
WOODLANDS CUSTOM SALES, LP, THE                                      TEXAS
WOODLANDS HOLDING HOTEL, LP, THE                                     TEXAS

ENTITY:                                                              PLACE OF FORMATION
- -------                                                              ------------------
                                                                    
WOODLANDS HOTEL GP, LLC, THE                                         TEXAS
WOODLANDS HOTEL, LP, THE                                             TEXAS
WOODLANDS LAND DEVELOPMENT CO., LP, THE                              TEXAS
WOODLANDS MALL ASSOCIATES, THE                                       ILLINOIS
WOODLANDS OFFICE EQUITIES-95, LTD.                                   TEXAS
WOODLANDS OPERATING COMPANY, L.P., THE                               TEXAS
WOODLANDS VTO 2000 COMMERCIAL, GP, LLC                               TEXAS
WOODLANDS VTO 2000 COMMERCIAL, LP                                    TEXAS
WV SUB, LLC                                                          DELAWARE

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 29
 c02442exv23w1.txt
 CONSENT

EXHIBIT 23.1

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos.
333-11067, 333-15907, 333-17021, Amendment No. 1 to 333-23035, 333-37247,
333-37383, 333-41603, 333-58045, 333-68505, 333-76379, 333-76757, 333-82134,
333-82569, 333-84419, 333-88813, 333-88819, Amendment No. 1 to 333-91621,
333-115693, 333-115694 and Amendment No. 1 to 333-120373 on Form S-3 and
Registration Statement Nos. 333-07241, 333-11237, 333-38449, 333-74461,
333-79737, 333-105882, and 333-125605 on Form S-8 of our reports dated March 31,
2006, relating to the consolidated financial statements and consolidated
financial statement schedule of General Growth Properties, Inc. and subsidiaries
(the "Company") and management's report on the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting (which report expresses an adverse opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting because
of material weaknesses), appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the
Company for the year ended December 31, 2005.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Chicago, Illinois
March 31, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 30
 c02442exv23w2.txt
 CONSENT

EXHIBIT 23.2

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors
General Growth Properties, Inc.:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements
(Nos. 333-11067, 333-15907, 333-17021, 333-23035, 333-37247, 333-37383,
333-41603, 333-58045, 333-68505, 333-76379, 333-76757, 333-82134, 333-82569,
333-84419, 333-88813, 333-88819, 333-91621, 333-115693, 333-115694 and
333-120373) on Form S-3 and the registration statements (Nos. 33-79372,
333-07241, 333-11237, 333-28449, 333-74461, 333-79737, 333-105882 and
333-125605) on Form S-8 of General Growth Properties, Inc. of our report dated
March 17, 2006, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of GGP/Homart,
Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related
consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, stockholders' equity
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2005, our report dated March 17, 2006, with respect to the consolidated
balance sheets of GGP/Homart II L.L.C. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005
and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive
income, members' capital and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2005, and our report dated March 17, 2006, with
respect to the consolidated balance sheet of GGP-TRS L.L.C. and subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statement of operations,
changes in members' capital and cash flows for the year ended December 31,2005,
which reports appear in the December 31, 2005 annual report on Form 10-K of
General Growth Properties, Inc.

KPMG LLP

Chicago, Illinois
March 31, 2006

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 31
 c02442exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO
SECTION 302 OF THE 

SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, John Bucksbaum, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
Form  10-K  of
General Growth Properties, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and  15d-15(e))  and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(f) 
and  15d-15(f))  for the
registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared; 

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and 

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/  John Bucksbaum

John Bucksbaum 

Chief Executive Officer  

Date: March 31, 2006

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 32
 c02442exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO
SECTION 302 OF THE 

SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, Bernard Freibaum, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
Form  10-K  of
General Growth Properties, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and  15d-15(e))  and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(f) 
and  15d-15(f))  for the
registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared; 

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting,
    or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and 

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/  Bernard Freibaum

Bernard Freibaum 

Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

Date: March 31, 2006

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 33
 c02442exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 

SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of General Growth
Properties, Inc. (the  Company ) on
Form  10-K  for the
period ending December 31, 2005, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
 Report ), I, John Bucksbaum, in my capacity as
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, do hereby certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13 (a) or 15 (d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company. 

/s/  John Bucksbaum

John Bucksbaum 

Chief Executive Officer  

March 31, 2006

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 34
 c02442exv32w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION

exv32w2 

EXHIBIT 32.2 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 

SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of General Growth
Properties, Inc. (the  Company ) on
Form  10-K  for the
period ending December 31, 2005, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
 Report ), I, Bernard Freibaum, in my capacity as
Chief Financial Officer of the Company, do hereby certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13 (a) or 15 (d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
    results of operations of the Company. 

/s/  Bernard Freibaum

Bernard Freibaum 

Chief Financial Officer  

March 31, 2006

</EX-32.2>

