<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_97148_0001104659-06-021307_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>924976</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>184298</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>28199</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>511127</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>12</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>2</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021307.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331162559
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021307
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			TEL OFFSHORE TRUST
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000097148
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	OIL ROYALTY TRADERS [6792]
		IRS NUMBER:				766004064
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			TX
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-06910
		FILM NUMBER:		06729232

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		TEXAS COMMERCE BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
		STREET 2:		712 MAIN STREET
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77002
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7132365712

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		712 MAIN STREET
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77002

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TENNECO OFFSHORE CO INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19830619

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 CHiLkC/THHhzVWD+MbrFD75+gIsBz7UFJ52yNzxP8uCFUj0Hotdi8qJsDrtiRB/Q
 jiDM5hv0BhIRcrltcim84g==

 0001104659-06-021307.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-1871_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

   (Mark One)   

   x                                  Annual
Report to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Act of 1934 

   for The Fiscal Year
Ended December 31, 2005   

   o                                     Transition
Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 

   for
the transition period
from                            
to                               

   Commission File Number 0-6910   

TEL OFFSHORE TRUST   

  (Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)  

Texas 

76-6004064   

(State
  or other jurisdiction of 
  incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S.
  Employer 
  Identification No.)  

JPMorgan Chase
  Bank, Trustee 
  700 Lavaca 
  Austin, Texas   

78701   

(Address
  of principal executive offices)  

(Zip
  Code)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:   (800) 852-1422    

  Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title
  of Each Class   

Name of Each Exchange on
  which Registered   

None  

None  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of
the Act:  

   Units of Beneficial
Interest   

  (Title of class)  

  Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act. Yes   o   No  x . 

  Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes   o   No  x . 

  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days. Yes   x   No  o  

  Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.   x  

  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer.  See definition of
 accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.  (Check one):  

  Large
accelerated filer   o     Accelerated
filer  o     Non-accelerated filer  x  

  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Act). Yes      No  x  

  The aggregate market value
of the 4,751,510 Units of Beneficial Interest in TEL Offshore Trust held by
non-affiliates as of the last business day of the registrant s most recently
completed second fiscal quarter was $47,372,555 based on a June 30,
2005 closing sales price of $9.97.  

  Indicate the number of
shares outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common stock, as of
the latest practicable date.  

  As of March 31, 2006,
4,751,510 Units of Beneficial Interest in TEL Offshore Trust.  

   Documents
Incorporated By Reference   : 
None 

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Page   

PART I    

Item 1.   

Business   

5  

Description of the Trust   

5  

General   

5  

History of the Trust   

8  

Description of the Units   

10  

Distributions   

10  

Possible Requirement that
  Units be Divested   

10  

Liability of Unit Holders   

11  

Federal Income Tax Matters   

12  

Tax-Exempt Organizations   

13  

State Law Considerations   

13  

Termination of the Trust   

14  

Royalty Income,
  Distributable Income and Total Assets   

14  

Description of Royalty
  Properties   

15  

Producing Acreage and Wells   

15  

Reserves   

16  

Operations and Production   

17  

Marketing   

25  

Gas Marketing   

25  

Oil Marketing   

26  

Competition and Regulation   

26  

Competition   

26  

Regulation General   

26  

FERC Regulations   

26  

State Regulation   

27  

Environmental Regulations   

27  

Item 1A.   

Risk Factors   

29  

Item 1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments   

33  

Item 2.   

Properties   

33  

Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings   

33  

Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a
  Vote of Security Holders   

33  

PART II    

Item 5.   

Market for the Registrant s
  Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters   

34  

Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data   

34  

Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and
  Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation   

35  

Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative
  Disclosures About Market Risk   

42  

Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary
  Data   

42  

Item 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
  Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

53  

Item 9A.   

Controls
  and Procedures   

53  

2     

PART III    

Item 10.   

Directors and Executive
  Officers of the Registrant   

53  

Item 11.   

Executive Compensation   

54  

Item 12.   

Security Ownership of
  Certain Beneficial Owners and Management   

54  

Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and
  Related Transactions   

54  

PART IV    

Item 14.   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

55  

Item 15.   

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

55  

SIGNATURES   

57  

3     

Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements   

  This Form 10-K
includes  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of Section 27A of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of
historical facts included in this Form 10-K are forward-looking
statements. Although the Working Interest Owners (as defined herein) have
advised the Trust that they believe that the expectations reflected in the
forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, no assurance can be
given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations ( Cautionary
Statements ) are disclosed in this Form 10-K, including without
limitation in conjunction with the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K.
Risks factors that may affect actual results and Trust distributions include,
without limitation:  

             Commodity
price fluctuations; 

             Uncertainty
of estimates of oil and gas production; 

             Uncertainty
of future production and development costs; 

             Operating
risks for Working Interest Owners, including drilling and environmental risks; 

             Delays
and costs in connection with repairs and replacements of hurricane-damaged
facilities and pipelines, including third-party transportation systems; 

             Regulatory
changes; 

             Decisions
by and at the discretion of Working Interest Owners not to perform additional
development projects or to abandon properties; and 

             Uncertainties
inherent in estimating proved oil and natural gas reserves and in projecting
future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. 

  Should any event or circumstances contemplated by the
risks or uncertainties described above or elsewhere in this Form 10-K
occur, or should any material underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual
results may differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the
forward-looking statements. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements
attributable to the Trust or persons acting on its behalf are expressly
qualified in their entirety by the Cautionary Statements. See Item 1A Risk
Factors below in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for a summary description
of principal risk factors.  

4  

PART I   

     Item     1.                       Business  . 

     DESCRIPTION OF THE TRUST   

     General   

  The TEL Offshore Trust ( Trust ), created under the
laws of the State of Texas, maintains its offices at the office of the
Corporate Trustee, JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan
Bank) ( Corporate Trustee ), 700 Lavaca, Austin, Texas 78701. The telephone
number of the Corporate Trustee is 1-800-852-1422. JPMorgan
Chase Bank was formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank and is the successor
by mergers to the original name of the Corporate Trustee, Texas Commerce Bank
National Association. George Allman, Jr., Gary C. Evans and Jeffrey S.
Swanson serve as individual trustees ( Individual Trustees ) of the Trust. The
Individual Trustees and the Corporate Trustee may be referred to hereinafter
collectively as the  Trustees.   

  The Trustee does not maintain a website for filings by
the Trust with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Electronic
filings by the Trust with the SEC are available free of charge through the SEC s
website at   www.sec.gov  .  

  The principal asset of the Trust consists of a 99.99%
interest in the TEL Offshore Trust Partnership ( Partnership ). Chevron U.S.A., Inc.
( Chevron ) owns the remaining .01% interest in the Partnership. The
Partnership owns an overriding royalty interest ( Royalty ), equivalent to a
25% net profits interest, in certain oil and gas properties (the  Royalty
Properties ) located offshore Louisiana.  

  On October 31, 1986, Exploration I was dissolved
and the oil and gas properties of Exploration I were distributed to Tenneco
subject to the Royalty. Tenneco, who was then serving as the Managing General
Partner of the Partnership, assumed the obligations of Exploration I, including
its obligations under the instrument conveying the Royalty to the Partnership
(the  Conveyance ). The dissolution of Exploration I had no impact on future
cash distributions to holders of units of beneficial interests.  

  On November 18, 1988, Chevron acquired most of
the Gulf of Mexico offshore oil and gas properties of Tenneco Oil Company ( Tenneco ),
including all the Royalty Properties. As a result of the acquisition, Chevron
replaced Tenneco as the Working Interest Owner and Managing General Partner of
the Partnership. Chevron also assumed Tenneco s obligations under the Conveyance.  

  On October 30, 1992, PennzEnergy Company ( PennzEnergy )
(which merged with and into Devon Energy Production Company L.P. effective January 1,
2000) acquired certain oil and gas producing properties from Chevron, including
four of the Royalty Properties. The four Royalty Properties acquired by
PennzEnergy were East Cameron 354, Eugene Island 348, Eugene
Island 367 and Eugene Island 208. As a result of such acquisition,
PennzEnergy replaced Chevron as the Working Interest Owner of these properties
on October 30, 1992. PennzEnergy also assumed Chevron s obligations under
the Conveyance with respect to these properties.  

  On December 1, 1994, Texaco Exploration and
Production Inc. ( TEPI ) acquired two of the Royalty Properties from
Chevron. The Royalty Properties acquired by Texaco were West Cameron 643
and East Cameron 371/381. As a result of such acquisition, TEPI replaced
Chevron as the Working Interest Owner of such properties on December 1,
1994. TEPI also assumed Chevron s obligations under the Conveyance with respect
to these properties.  

  On October 1, 1995, SONAT Exploration Company ( SONAT )
acquired the East Cameron 354 property from PennzEnergy. In addition, on October 1,
1995, Amoco Production Company ( Amoco ) acquired the Eugene Island 367
property from PennzEnergy. As a result of such acquisitions, SONAT and Amoco
replaced PennzEnergy as the Working Interest Owners of the East
Cameron 354 and Eugene   

5     

Island 367 properties,
respectively, on October 1, 1995 and also assumed PennzEnergy s
obligations under the Conveyance with respect to these properties.  

  Effective January 1, 1998, Energy Resource
Technology, Inc. ( ERT ) acquired the East Cameron 354 property from
SONAT. As a result of this acquisition, ERT replaced SONAT as the Working
Interest Owner of the East Cameron 354 property effective January 1,
1998, and also assumed SONAT s obligations under the Conveyance with respect to
such property. In October 1998, Amerada Hess Corporation ( Amerada )
acquired the East Cameron 354 property from ERT effective January 1, 1998.
As a result of such acquisition, Amerada replaced ERT as the Working Interest
Owner of the East Cameron 354 property effective January 1, 1998, and
also assumed ERT s obligations under the Conveyance with respect to this
property.  

  Effective January 1, 2000, PennzEnergy and Devon
Energy Corporation (Nevada) merged into Devon Energy Production Company L.P. ( Devon ).
As a result of this merger, Devon replaced PennzEnergy as the Working Interest
Owner of Eugene Island 348 and Eugene Island 208 properties effective
January 1, 2000, and also assumed PennzEnergy s obligations under the
Conveyance with respect to these properties.  

  On October 9, 2001, a wholly owned subsidiary of
Chevron Corporation, a Delaware corporation, merged (the  Merger ) with and
into Texaco Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Texaco ), pursuant to an
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 15, 2000. As a result of
the Merger, Texaco Inc. became a wholly owned subsidiary of Chevron
Corporation, and Chevron Corporation changed its name to  ChevronTexaco
Corporation  in connection with the Merger (ChevronTexaco Corporation is
referred to herein as  ChevronTexaco ). Accordingly, the properties referred to
herein by Chevron and Texaco are each now controlled by subsidiaries of
ChevronTexaco.  

  On May 1, 2002, TEPI assigned all of its
interests in West Cameron 643 and East Cameron 371/381 to Chevron.
Accordingly, pursuant to the Conveyance of the Royalty Properties, Net Proceeds
will be calculated for the collective Royalty Properties owned by Chevron after
this date.  

  On June 6, 2003, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation ( Anadarko )
acquired, among other interests, a 25% Working Interest in the East
Cameron 354 field subject to the Royalty from Amerada effective April 1,
2003. As a result of this transaction, Anadarko replaced Amerada as the Working
Interest Owner of East Cameron 354 effective July 1, 2003 and also
assumed Amerada s obligation under the Conveyance with respect to this property.  

  Effective October 1, 2004, Apache Corporation ( Apache )
acquired Anadarko s interests in East Cameron 354 and assumed Anadarko s
obligation under the Conveyance with respect to this property.  

  All of the Royalty Properties continue to be subject
to the Royalty, and it is anticipated that the Trust and Partnership, in
general, will continue to operate as if the above-described sales of the
Royalty Properties had not occurred.  

  Unless the context in which such terms are used
indicates otherwise, the terms  Working Interest Owner  and  Working Interest
Owners  generally refer to the owner or owners of the Royalty Properties
(Tenneco Exploration I through October 31, 1986; Tenneco for periods from October 31,
1986 until November 18, 1988; Chevron with respect to all Royalty
Properties for periods from November 18, 1988 until October 30, 1992,
and with respect to all Royalty Properties except East Cameron 354, Eugene
Island 348, Eugene Island 367 and Eugene Island 208 for periods
from October 30, 1992 until December 1, 1994, and with respect to the
same properties except West Cameron 643 thereafter; PennzEnergy/Devon with
respect to East Cameron 354, Eugene Island 348, Eugene
Island 367 and Eugene/Devon Island 208 for periods from October 30,
1992 until October 1, 1995, and with respect to Eugene Island 348 and
Eugene Devon Island 208 thereafter; TEPI with respect to West
Cameron 643 and East Cameron 371/381 for periods beginning on or
after December 1, 1994 until May 1, 2002; SONAT with respect to East
Cameron 354 for periods on or after October 1, 1995; Amoco with
respect to Eugene Island 367 for   

6     

periods beginning on or
after October 1, 1995; Amerada with respect to East Cameron 354 for
periods beginning on or after January 1, 1998 until July 1, 2003;
Chevron with respect to West Cameron 643 and East Cameron 371/381 on
and after May 1, 2002; Anadarko with respect to East Cameron 354 on
and after July 1, 2003 until October 1, 2004, and Apache with respect
to East Cameron 354 after October 1, 2004).  

  A total of 4,751,510 units of beneficial interest in
the Trust ( Units ) are issued and outstanding. The Trust Units have been
traded on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market since August 31, 2001. Previously the
Trust Units were traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. The Trust Units were also
traded on pink sheets. From inception of the Trust to December 31, 2005,
distributions to Unit holders totaled approximately $114,434,000 or
approximately $24.08 per Unit.  

  The terms of the TEL Offshore Trust Agreement (the  Trust
Agreement ) provide, among other things, that: (1) the Trust is a passive
entity whose activities are generally limited to the receipt of revenues
attributable to the Trust s interest in the Partnership and the distribution of
such revenues, after payment of or provision for Trust expenses and
liabilities, to the owners of the Units; (2) the Trustees may sell all or
any part of the Trust s interest in the Partnership or cause the sale of all or
any part of the Royalty by the Partnership with the approval of a majority of
the Unit holders; (3) the Trustees can establish cash reserves and can
borrow funds to pay liabilities of the Trust and can pledge the assets of the
Trust to secure payment of such borrowings; (4) to the extent cash
available for distribution exceeds liabilities or reserves therefore
established by the Trust, the Trustees will cause the Trust to make quarterly
cash distributions to the Unit holders in January, April, July and October of
each year; and (5) the Trust will terminate upon the first to occur of the
following events: (i) total future net revenues attributable to the
Partnership s interest in the Royalty, as determined by independent petroleum
engineers, as of the end of any year, are less than $2 million or (ii) a
decision to terminate the Trust by the affirmative vote of Unit holders
representing a majority of the Units. Total future net revenues attributable to
the Partnership s interest in the Royalty were estimated at $48.0 million
as of October 31, 2005 based on the reserve study of DeGolyer and
MacNaughton, independent petroleum engineers. (See  Termination of the Trust 
and Note 9 of the Notes to Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K
for further information regarding estimated future net revenues.) Upon
termination of the Trust, the Trustees will sell for cash all the assets held
in the Trust estate and make a final distribution to Unit holders of any funds
remaining after all Trust liabilities have been satisfied.  

  The terms of the Agreement of General Partnership of
the Partnership (the  Partnership Agreement ) provide that the Partnership
shall dissolve upon the occurrence of any of the following: (1) December 31,
2030, (2) the election of the Trust to dissolve the Partnership, (3) the
termination of the Trust, (4) the bankruptcy of the Managing General
Partner of the Partnership, or (5) the dissolution of the Managing General
Partner or its election to dissolve the Partnership; however, the Managing
General Partner has agreed not to dissolve or to elect to dissolve the
Partnership and shall be liable for all damages and costs to the Trust if it
breaches this agreement.  

  Under the Conveyance and the Partnership Agreement,
the Trust is entitled to its share (99.99%) of 25% of the Net Proceeds, as
hereinafter defined, realized from the sale of the oil, gas and associated
hydrocarbons when produced from the Royalty Properties. See  Description of
Royalty Properties.  The Conveyance provides that the Working Interest Owners
will calculate, for each quarterly period commencing the first day of February,
May, August and November, an amount equal to 25% of the Net Proceeds from
its oil and gas properties for the period.  Net Proceeds  means for each
quarterly period, the excess, if any, of the Gross Proceeds, as hereinafter
defined, for such period over Production Costs, as hereinafter defined, for
such period.  Gross Proceeds  means the amounts received by the Working
Interest Owners from the sale of oil, gas and associated hydrocarbons produced
from the properties burdened by the Royalty, subject to certain adjustments.
Gross Proceeds do not include amounts received by the Working Interest Owners
as advance gas payments,  take-or-pay  payments or similar payments unless and
until such payments are extinguished or repaid through the future delivery of
gas.  Production   

7     

Costs  means, generally,
costs incurred on an accrual basis by the Working Interest Owners in operating
the Royalty Properties, including capital and non-capital costs. In general,
Net Proceeds are computed on an aggregate basis and consist of the aggregate
proceeds to the Working Interest Owners from the sale of oil and gas from the
Royalty Properties less (1) all direct costs, charges and expenses
incurred by the Working Interest Owners in exploration, production,
development, drilling and other operations on the Royalty Properties (including
secondary recovery operations); (2) all applicable taxes (including
severance and ad valorem taxes) excluding income taxes; (3) all operating
charges directly associated with the Royalty Properties; (4) an allowance
for costs, computed on a current basis at a rate equal to the prime rate of JPMorgan
Chase Bank plus 0.5% on all amounts by which, and for only so long as, costs
and expenses for the Royalty Properties incurred for any quarter have exceeded
the proceeds of production from such Royalty Properties for such quarter; (5) applicable
charges for certain overhead expenses as provided in the Conveyance; (6) the
management fees and expense reimbursements owing the Working Interest Owners;
and (7) a special cost reserve for the future costs to be incurred by the
Working Interest Owners to plug and abandon wells and dismantle and remove
platforms, pipelines and other production facilities from the Royalty
Properties and for future drilling projects and other estimated future capital
expenditures on the Royalty Properties. The Trustees are not obligated to
return any royalty income received in any period, but future amounts otherwise
payable shall be reduced by the amount of any prior overpayments of such
royalty income. The Working Interest Owners are required to maintain books and
records sufficient to determine amounts payable under the Royalty. The Working
Interest Owners are also required to deliver to the Managing General Partner on
behalf of the Partnership a statement of the computation of Net Proceeds no
later than the tenth business day prior to the quarterly record date.  

  The Royalty Properties are required to be operated in
accordance with standards applicable to a prudent oil and gas operator. The
Working Interest Owners are free to transfer their working interest in any of
the Royalty Properties (burdened by the Royalty) to third parties. The Working
Interest Owners are also free to enter into farm-out agreements whereby a
Working Interest Owner would transfer a portion of its interest (unburdened by
the Royalty) while retaining a lesser interest (burdened by the Royalty) in
return for the transferee s obligation to drill a well on the Royalty
Properties. The Working Interest Owners have the right to abandon any well or
lease, and upon termination of any lease, the part of the Royalty relating
thereto will be extinguished. The Royalty Properties are primarily operated by
the Working Interest Owners although certain other parties operate some of the
Royalty Properties.  

  The discussions of terms of the Trust Agreement,
Partnership Agreement and Conveyance contained herein are qualified in their
entirety by reference to the Trust Agreement, Partnership Agreement and
Conveyance themselves, which are exhibits to this Form 10-K and are
available upon request from the Corporate Trustee.  

  The Trust has no
employees. Administrative functions of the Trust are performed by the Corporate
Trustee.  

     History of the Trust   

  Tenneco Offshore Company, Inc. ( Tenneco Offshore )
created the Trust effective January 1, 1983, pursuant to a Plan of
Dissolution ( Plan ), which was approved by Tenneco Offshore s stockholders on December 22,
1982. In accordance with the Plan, the assets of Tenneco Offshore were
transferred to the Trust as of January 1, 1983, and Units were exchanged
for shares of common stock of Tenneco Offshore on the basis of one Unit for
each share of common stock held by stockholders of record on January 14,
1983. Additionally, the Partnership was formed, in which the Trust owned a
99.99% interest and Tenneco initially owned a .01% interest. The Partnership
was formed solely for the purpose of owning the Royalty, receiving the proceeds
from the Royalty, paying the liabilities and expenses of the Partnership and
disbursing remaining revenues to the Trust and the Managing General Partner of
the Partnership in accordance with their interests. The Plan was effected by
transferring an overriding royalty interest   

8     

equivalent to a 25% net
profits interest in the oil and gas properties of Tenneco
Exploration, Ltd. ( Exploration I ) located offshore Louisiana to the
Partnership, contributing the common stock of Tenneco Offshore II Company ( Offshore
II ) to the Trust, and issuing certificates evidencing Units in liquidation and
cancellation of Tenneco Offshore s common stock.  

  On October 31, 1986, Exploration I was dissolved
and the oil and gas properties of Exploration I were distributed to
Tenneco subject to the Royalty. Tenneco, who was then serving as the Managing
General Partner of the Partnership, assumed the obligations of
Exploration I, including its obligations under the Conveyance. The
dissolution of Exploration I had no impact on future cash distributions to
holders of units of beneficial interest.  

  As discussed above, on November 18,
1988, Chevron replaced Tenneco as the Working Interest Owner and Managing General
Partner of the Partnership and assumed Tenneco s obligations under the
Conveyance. On October 30, 1992, PennzEnergy acquired certain oil and gas
producing properties from Chevron, including four of the Royalty Properties.
The four Royalty Properties acquired by PennzEnergy were East Cameron 354,
Eugene Island 348, Eugene Island 367 and Eugene Island 208. As a
result of such acquisition, PennzEnergy replaced Chevron as the Working
Interest Owner of such properties and assumed Chevron s obligations under the
Conveyance with respect to such properties on October 30, 1992. On December 1,
1994, TEPI acquired two of the Royalty Properties from Chevron. The Royalty
Property acquired by TEPI is West Cameron 643 and East
Cameron 371/381. As a result of such acquisition, TEPI replaced
Chevron as the Working Interest Owner of such property and assumed Chevron s
obligations under the Conveyance with respect to such property on December 1,
1994. On October 1, 1995, SONAT and Amoco acquired the East
Cameron 354 and Eugene Island 367 properties, respectively, from
PennzEnergy. As a result of such acquisitions, SONAT and Amoco replaced
PennzEnergy as the Working Interest Owners of the East Cameron 354 and
Eugene Island 367 properties, respectively, and also assumed PennzEnergy s
obligations under the Conveyance with respect to such properties on October 1,
1995. Effective January 1, 1998 ERT acquired the East Cameron 354
property from SONAT. As a result of such acquisition, ERT replaced SONAT as the
Working Interest Owner of the East Cameron 354 property and also assumed
SONAT s obligations under the Conveyance with respect to such property
effective January 1, 1998. In October 1998, Amerada acquired the East
Cameron 354 property from ERT effective January 1, 1998. As a result
of this acquisition, Amerada replaced ERT as the Working Interest Owner of the
East Cameron 354 property effective January 1, 1998, and also assumed
ERT s obligations under the Conveyance with respect to this property. Effective
January 1, 2000, PennzEnergy and Devon Energy Corporation (Nevada) merged
into Devon Energy Production Company L.P. ( Devon ). As a result of such
merger, Devon replaced PennzEnergy as the Working Interest Owner of Eugene
Island 348 and Eugene Island 208 properties effective January 1,
2000, and also assumed PennzEnergy s obligations under the Conveyance with
respect to these properties. On October 9, 2001, a wholly owned subsidiary
of Chevron Corporation, a Delaware corporation, merged (the  Merger ) with and
into Texaco Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Texaco ), pursuant to an
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 15, 2000. As a result of
the Merger, Texaco Inc. became a wholly owned subsidiary of Chevron
Corporation, and Chevron Corporation changed its name to  ChevronTexaco
Corporation  in connection with the Merger (ChevronTexaco Corporation is
referred to herein as  ChevronTexaco ). Accordingly, the properties referred to
herein by Chevron and Texaco are each now controlled by subsidiaries of
ChevronTexaco. On May 1, 2002, TEPI assigned all of its interests in West
Cameron 643 and East Cameron 371/381 to Chevron. Accordingly,
pursuant to the Conveyance of the Royalty Properties, net proceeds will be
calculated for the collective Royalty Properties owned by Chevron after this
date. On June 6, 2003, Anadarko acquired, among other interests, a 25%
Working Interest in the East Cameron 354 field subject to The Royalty from
Amerada effective April 1, 2003. As a result of this transaction, Anadarko
replaced Amerada as the Working Interest Owner of East Cameron 354
effective July 1, 2003 and also assumed Amerada s obligation under the
Conveyance with respect to this property. Effective   

9     

October 1,
2004, Apache acquired Anadarko s interest in East Cameron 354 and assumed
Anadarko s obligations under the Conveyance with respect to this property.  

     DESCRIPTION OF THE UNITS   

  Each Unit is evidenced by
a transferable certificate issued by the Corporate Trustee. Each unit ranks
equally as to distributions, has one vote on any matter submitted to Unit
holders and represents an undivided interest in the Trust, which in turn owns a
99.99% interest in the Partnership.  

     Distributions   

  The Trustees distribute the Trust s income pro rata
for each calendar quarter within 10 days after the end of each calendar
quarter. Distributions of the Trust s income are made to Unit holders of record
on the Quarterly Record Date, which is the last business day of each quarterly
period, or such later date as the Trustees determine is required to comply with
legal requirements. The Trustees determine for each quarterly period the amount
available for distribution. Such amount (the  Quarterly Income Amount )
consists of the cash received from the Royalty during the quarterly period plus
any other cash receipts of the Trust, less the obligations of the Trust paid
during the quarterly period, and adjusted for changes made by the Trust during
the quarter in any cash reserves established for the payment of contingent or
future obligations of the Trust. For a discussion of the cash reserves being
established by the Trust, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources 
in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.  

  Within 90 days of the
close of each year, the net federal taxable income of the Trust for each
quarterly period ending in such year is reported by the Trustees for federal
tax purposes to the Unit holder of record to whom the Quarterly Income Amount
was distributed.  

     Possible
Requirement That Units Be Divested   

  The Trust Agreement imposes no restrictions based on
nationality or other status of the persons or other entities who are eligible
to hold Units. However, the Trust Agreement provides that if at any time the
Trust or any of the Trustees are named as a party in any judicial or
administrative or other governmental proceeding which seeks the cancellation or
forfeiture of any interest in any property located in the United States in
which the Trust has an interest because of the nationality or any other status
of any one or more owners of Units, or if at any time the Trustees in their
reasonable discretion determine that such a proceeding is threatened or likely
to be asserted and the Trust has received an opinion of counsel stating that
the party asserting or likely to assert the claims has a reasonable probability
of succeeding in such claim, the following procedures will be applicable:  

  (a)    The
Trustees, in their discretion, may seek from an investment banking firm to be
selected by the Trustees an opinion as to whether it is in the Trust s best
interest for the Trustees to take the actions permitted by (b)(i) through (iii) below.  

  (b)   The
Trustees may take no action with respect to the potential cancellation or
forfeiture or may seek to avoid such cancellation or forfeiture by the
following procedure:  

  (i)    The
Trustees will promptly give written notice ( Notice ) to each record owner of
Units as to the existence of or probable assertion of such controversy. The
Notice will contain a reasonable summary of such controversy, will include
materials which will permit an owner of Units to promptly confirm or deny to
the Trustees that such owner is a person whose nationality or other status is
or would be an issue in such a proceeding ( Ineligible Holder ) and will
constitute a demand to each Ineligible Holder that he dispose of his units, to
a party who would not be an Ineligible Holder, within 30 days after the
date of the Notice.  

10     

(ii)   If an
Ineligible Holder fails to dispose of his Units as required by the Notice, the
Trustees will have the right to redeem and will redeem, during the 90 days
following the termination of the 30-day period specified in the Notice,
any Unit not so transferred for a cash price equal to the mean between the
closing bid and ask prices of the Units in the over-the-counter market or, if
the Units are then listed on a stock exchange, the closing price of the Units
on the largest stock exchange on which the Units are listed, on the last
business day prior to the expiration of the 30-day period stated in the
Notice. The procedures for any such purchase are more fully described in the
Trust Agreement. The Trustee shall cancel any Units acquired in accordance with
the foregoing procedures thereby increasing the proportionate interest in the
Trust of other holders of Units.  

  (iii)  The Trustees may, in their sole discretion,
cause the Trust to borrow any amounts required to purchase Units in accordance
with the procedures described above.  

     Liability of Unit Holders   

  It is the intention of the Working Interest Owners and
the Trustees that the Trust be an  express trust  under the Texas Trust Act.
Under Texas law, beneficiaries of an express trust are not personally liable
for the obligations of the trust, even if the assets of the trust are
insufficient to discharge its obligations. However, it is unclear under Texas
law whether the Trust will be held to constitute an express trust and, if it is
not held to be an express trust, whether the holders of Units would be jointly
and severally liable for the obligations of the Trust as would general partners
of a partnership.  

  Under current judicial decisions, the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission ( FERC ) is not considered to be empowered to compel refunds
from overriding royalty interest owners with respect to gas price overcharges.
However, future laws, regulations or judicial decisions might permit the FERC
or other governmental agencies to require such refunds from overriding royalty
interest owners or create filing, reporting or certification obligations with
respect to a trust created for such overriding royalty interest owners.
Moreover, other parties, such as oil or gas purchasers, may be able to
instigate private lawsuits or other legal action to compel refunds from
overriding royalty interest owners with respect to oil or gas pricing
overcharges.  

  The Working Interest Owners have agreed that they will
not seek to recover from the Unit holders the amount of any refunds they are
required to make except out of future revenues payable to the Trust. The
Trustees will be liable to the Unit holders if the Trustees allow any liability
to be incurred without taking any and all action necessary to ensure that such
liability will be satisfiable only out of the Trust assets (regardless of
whether the assets are adequate to satisfy the liability) and will be
non-recourse to the Unit holders. However, the Trustees will not be liable to
the Unit holders for state or federal income taxes or for refunds, fines, penalties
or interest relating to oil or gas pricing overcharges under state or federal
price controls. The Trustees will be indemnified from the Trust assets, to the
extent that the Trustees  actions do not constitute gross negligence, bad faith
or fraud.  

  Each Unit holder should
consider, in weighing the possible exposure to liability in the event the Trust
were not classified as an express trust, (1) the substantial value and
passive nature of the Trust assets, (2) the restrictions on the power of
the Trustees to incur liabilities on behalf of the Trust and (3) the
limited activities to be conducted by the Trustees.  

11  

Federal Income Tax
Matters   

  This section is a summary
of federal income tax matters of general application which addresses the
material tax consequences of the ownership and sale of the Units. Except where
indicated, the discussion below describes general federal income tax
considerations applicable to individuals who are citizens or residents of the
United States. Accordingly, the following discussion has limited application to
domestic corporations and persons subject to specialized federal income tax treatment,
such as regulated investment companies and insurance companies. It is
impractical to comment on all aspects of federal, state, local and foreign laws
that may affect the tax consequences of the transactions contemplated hereby
and of an investment in the units as they relate to the particular
circumstances of every Unit holder.   Each Unit
holder is encouraged to consult his own tax advisor with respect to his
particular circumstances.    

  This summary is based on
current provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ),
existing and proposed Treasury regulations thereunder and current
administrative rulings and court decisions, all of which are subject to changes
that may or may not be retroactively applied. Some of the applicable provisions
of the Code have not been interpreted by the courts or the Internal Revenue
Service ( IRS ). No assurance can be provided that the statements set forth
herein (which do not bind the IRS or the courts) will not be challenged by the
IRS or will be sustained by a court if so challenged.  

   Ownership of Units   

  The IRS has ruled that the
Trust is a grantor trust and that the Partnership is a partnership for federal
income tax purposes. Thus, the Trust will incur no federal income tax liability
and each Unit holder will be treated as owning an interest in the Partnership.  

   Income and Depletion   

  Each Unit holder of record
as of the last business day of each quarter will be allocated a share of the
income and deductions of the Trust, including the Trust s share of the income
and deductions of the Partnership, computed on an accrual basis, for that
quarter. Royalty income is portfolio income. Since all income from the
Partnership is royalty income, this amount, net of depletion and severance
taxes, is portfolio income and, subject to certain exceptions and transitional
rules, this royalty income cannot be offset by passive losses. Additionally,
interest income is portfolio income. Administrative expense is an investment
expense.  

  The IRS has also ruled
that the Royalty is a non-operating economic interest giving rise to income
subject to depletion. The Trustees will treat the Royalty as a single property
giving rise to income subject to depletion, although the computation of
depletion will be made by each Unit holder based upon information provided by
the Trustees. Each Unit holder will be entitled to compute cost depletion with
respect to his share of income from the Royalty based on his basis in the
Royalty. A Unit holder will have a basis in the Royalty equal to the basis in
his units. Unit holders who acquired units after October 11, 1990, are
entitled to percentage depletion on Royalty income attributable to those units.  

   Backup Withholding   

  Distributions from the
Trust are generally subject to backup withholding at a rate of 28% of these
distributions. Backup withholding will not normally apply to distributions to a
Unit holder, however, unless the Unit holder fails to properly provide to the
Trust his taxpayer identification number or the IRS notifies the Trust that the
taxpayer identification number provided by the Unit holder is incorrect.  

   Sale of Units   

  Generally, except for
recapture items, the sale, exchange or other disposition of a unit will result
in capital gain or loss measured by the difference between the tax basis in the
unit and the amount realized.   

12     

Effective
for property placed in service after December 31, 1986, the amount of
gain, if any, realized upon the disposition of oil and gas property is treated
as ordinary income to the extent of the intangible drilling and development
costs incurred with respect to the property and depletion claimed with respect
to the property to the extent it reduced the taxpayer s basis in the property.
Under this provision, depletion attributable to a unit acquired after 1986 will
be subject to recapture as ordinary income upon disposition of the unit or upon
disposition of the oil and gas property to which the depletion is attributable.
The balance of any gain or any loss will be capital gain or loss if the unit
was held by the Unit holder as a capital asset, either long-term or short-term
depending on the holding period of the unit. This capital gain or loss will be
long-term if a Unit holder s holding period for the units exceeds one year at
the time of sale or exchange. A long-term capital gains rate of 15% applies to
most capital assets sold or exchanged with a holding period of more than one
year. Capital gain or loss will be short-term if the unit has not been held for
more than one year at the time of sale on exchange.  

   Non-U.S. Unit
holders   

  In general, a Unit holder who is a nonresident alien
individual or which is a foreign corporation, each a  non-U.S. Unit holder  for
purposes of this discussion, will be subject to tax on the gross income
produced by the Royalty at a rate equal to 30%, or if applicable, at a lower
treaty rate. This tax will be withheld by the Trustees and remitted directly to
the United States Treasury. A non-U.S. Unit holder may elect to treat the
income from the Royalty as effectively connected with the conduct of a United
States trade or business under provisions of the Code, or pursuant to any
similar provisions of applicable treaties. Upon making this election a non-U.S.
Unit holder is entitled to claim all deductions with respect to that income,
but he must file a United States federal income tax return to claim those
deductions. This election once made is irrevocable, unless an applicable treaty
allows the election to be made annually. However, that effectively connected
income is subjected to withholding equal to the highest applicable tax rate 35%
for individual non-U.S. Unit holders and 35% for corporate non-U.S. Unit holders.  

  The Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder treat
the publicly traded Trust as if it were a United States real property holding
corporation. Accordingly, non-U.S. Unit holders may be subject to United States
federal income tax on the gain on the disposition of their units.  

  Federal income taxation of
a non-U.S. Unit holder is a highly complex matter which may be affected by many
other considerations. Therefore, each non-U.S. Unit holder is encouraged to
consult its own tax adviser with respect to his ownership of units.  

     Tax-exempt Organizations   

  Investments in publicly
traded grantor trusts are treated the same as investments in partnerships for
purposes of the rules governing unrelated business taxable income. The
Royalty and interest income should not be unrelated business taxable income so
long as, generally, a Unit holder did not incur debt to acquire a unit or
otherwise incur or maintain a debt that would not have been incurred or
maintained if that unit had not been acquired. Legislative proposals have been
made from time to time which, if adopted, would result in the treatment of
Royalty income as unrelated business taxable income. Each tax-exempt Unit
holder should consult its own tax advisor with respect to the treatment of
Royalty income.  

     State Law Considerations   

  The Trust and the
Partnership have been structured so as to cause the units to be treated for
certain state law purposes essentially the same as other securities, that is,
as interests in intangible personal property rather than as interests in real
property. However, in the absence of controlling legal precedent, there is a
possibility that under certain circumstances a Unit holder could be treated as
owning an interest in real property under the laws of Louisiana. In that event,
the tax, probate, devolution of title and   

13     

administration
laws of Louisiana or other states applicable to real property may apply to the
units, even if held by a person who is not a resident thereof. Application of
these laws could make the inheritance and related matters with respect to the
units substantially more onerous than had the units been treated as interests
in intangible personal property. Unit holders should consult their legal and
tax advisers regarding the applicability of these considerations to their
individual circumstances.  

     TERMINATION OF THE TRUST   

  The terms of the TEL Offshore Trust Agreement provide
that the Trust will terminate upon the first to occur of the following events: (1) total
future net revenues attributable to the Partnership s interest in the Royalty,
as determined by independent petroleum engineers, as of the end of any year,
are less than $2 million or (2) a decision to terminate the Trust by
the affirmative vote of Unit holders representing a majority of the Units.
Total future net revenues attributable to the Partnership s interest in the
Royalty were estimated at $48.0 million as of October 31, 2005, based
on the reserve study of DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum
engineers, discussed herein. Based on the DeGolyer and MacNaughton reserve
study, as of October 31, 2005 in order to correspond with distributions to
the Trust, it is estimated that approximately 71% of future net revenues from
the Royalty Properties are expected to be received by the Trust during the next
3 years. Because the Trust will terminate in the event estimated future
net revenues fall below $2.0 million, it would be possible for the Trust to
terminate even though some or all of the Royalty Properties continued to have
remaining productive lives. Upon termination of the Trust, the Trustees will
sell for cash all of the assets held in the Trust estate and make a final
distribution to Unit holders of any funds remaining after all Trust liabilities
have been satisfied. The estimates of future net revenues discussed above are
subject to the limitations described in the DeGolyer and MacNaughton reserve
study. The reserve study is limited to reserves classified as proved;
therefore, future capital expenditures for recovery of reserves not classified
as proved by DeGolyer and MacNaughton are not included in the calculation of
estimated future net revenues. In addition, the estimates of future net revenues
discussed above are subject to large variances from year to year and should not
be construed as exact. There are numerous uncertainties present in estimating
future net revenues for the Royalty Properties. The estimate may vary depending
on changes in market prices for crude oil and natural gas, the recoverable
reserves, annual production and costs assumed by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. In
addition, future economic and operating conditions as well as results of future
drilling plans may cause significant changes in such estimate. The discussion
set forth above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Trust
Agreement itself, which is an exhibit to this Form 10-K and is
available upon request from the Corporate Trustee.  

  In addition, in the event
of a dissolution of the Partnership (which could occur under the circumstances
described above under  Description of the Trust ) and a subsequent winding up
and termination thereof, the assets of the Partnership (i.e., the Royalty)
could either (1) be distributed in kind ratably to the Trust and the
Managing General Partner or (2) be sold and the proceeds thereof
distributed ratably to the Trust and the Managing General Partner. In the event
of a sale of the Royalty and a distribution of the cash proceeds thereof to the
Trust and the Managing General Partner, the Trustee would make a final
distribution to Unit holders of the Trust s portion of such cash proceeds plus
any other cash held by the Trust after payment of or provision for all
liabilities of the Trust, and the Trust would be terminated.  

     ROYALTY INCOME, DISTRIBUTABLE INCOME AND TOTAL ASSETS   

  Reference is made to Items 6, 7 and 8 of this Form 10-K
for financial information relating to the Trust.  

14  

DESCRIPTION OF ROYALTY PROPERTIES   

     Producing Acreage and Wells   

  The
Partnership s interest consists of an overriding royalty interest, equivalent
to a 25% net profits interest, in the Royalty Properties as follows:  

(1)        As of October 31,
2005, there were 2 wells in the process of drilling. See  Operations  under
Item 7 of this report for a discussion of drilling activity during 2005.  

  (2)        As of October 31,
2005, there were 101 producing completions.  

  (3)        Multiple
completions are counted as one well. South Timbalier 37 has 5 multiple
completion wells and Ship Shoal 182/183 has 2 multiple completion wells.  

  (4)        These
percentages represent the working interest owner s interest subject to the
Partnership s net proceeds.  

  (5)        Apache
purchased this working interest from Anadarko effective October 1, 2004.
This lease expired in 2005. Wells will be plugged and abandoned in 2006.  

  (6)        Eugene
Island 339 C-17 and C-18 wells are producing in this property but
are not included here; they are not subject to the Partnership s net proceeds
until they pay out.  

  (7)        This
lease expired in 2004.  

  (8)        This
lease expired in 1996.  

    (9)        This lease expired in November 2002, and all wells
on the lease had been abandoned as of November 2003.  

15     

(10)      This lease expired on May 30, 1996. It was leased
again as OCS-G 19800 effective July 1, 1998. Neither Chevron nor any
affiliates of ChevronTexaco have an interest in OCS-G-19800.  

     Reserves   

  A study of the proved oil and gas reserves
attributable to the Partnership, in which the Trust has a 99.99% interest, has
been made by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum engineering consultants,
as of October 31, 2005. The following letter summarizes such reserve
study. Such study reflects estimated production, reserve quantities and future
net revenue based upon estimates of the future timing of actual production
without regard to when received by the Trust, which differs from the manner in
which the Trust recognizes its royalty income. See Notes 2 and 9 in the Notes
to Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

  There are numerous uncertainties inherent in
estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting the future rates of
production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors
beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data in the DeGolyer and
MacNaughton letter represent estimates only and should not be construed as
being exact. The discounted present values shown by the DeGolyer and
MacNaughton letter should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated
gas and oil reserves attributable to the Royalty Properties or the costs that
would be incurred to obtain equivalent reserves, since a market value
determination would include many additional factors. In accordance with
applicable regulations of the SEC, estimated future net revenues were based,
generally, on current prices and costs, whereas actual future prices and costs
may be materially greater or less. In addition, because the reserve study is
limited to proved reserves, future capital expenditures for recovery of
reserves not classified as proved by DeGolyer and MacNaughton are not included
in the calculation of estimated future net revenues. Reserve assessment is a
subjective process of estimating the recovery from underground accumulations of
gas and oil that cannot be measured in an exact way, and estimates of other
persons might differ materially from those of DeGolyer and MacNaughton.
Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of
hydrocarbons that are ultimately recovered.  

  The Partnership s share of gas sales are recorded by
the Working Interest Owners on the cash method of accounting or based on actual
production. When revenues are reported on actual production, there is no gas
imbalance created. Under the cash method, revenues are recorded based on actual
gas volumes sold, which could be more or less than the volumes the Working
Interest Owners are entitled to based on their ownership interests. Total
future net revenues attributable to the Partnership s interest in the Royalty
were estimated at $48.0 million as of October 31, 2005 based on the
reserve study of DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The Partnership s Royalty income for
a period reflects the actual gas sold during the period.  

  While estimates of reserves attributable to the Royalty
are shown in order to comply with requirements of the SEC, there is no precise
method of allocating estimates of physical quantities of reserves to the
Partnership and the Trust, since the Royalty is not a working interest and the
Partnership does not own and is not entitled to receive any specific volume of
reserves from the Royalty. Reserve quantities in the DeGolyer and MacNaughton
reserve study have been allocated based on a revenue formula described in the
foregoing letter. The quantities of reserves indicated by such formula will be
affected by future changes in various economic factors utilized in estimating
future gross and net revenues from the Royalty Properties. Therefore, the
estimates of reserves set forth in the DeGolyer and MacNaughton letter are to a
large extent hypothetical and differ in significant respects from estimates of
reserves attributable to a working interest. For a further discussion of
reserves, reference is made to Note 9 in the Notes to Financial Statements
under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

  The future net revenues contained in the DeGolyer and
MacNaughton letter have not been reduced for future costs and expenses of the
Trust, which are expected to approximate $600,000 annually. The costs   

16     

and expenses of the Trust
may increase in future years, depending on increases in accounting,
engineering, legal and other professional fees, as well as other factors.  

  In addition, because the DeGolyer and MacNaughton
reserve study is limited to proved reserves, future capital expenditures for
recovery of reserves not classified as proved by DeGolyer and MacNaughton are
not included in the calculation of future net revenues. These capital
expenditures could have a significant effect on the actual future net revenues
attributable to the Partnership s interest in the Royalty.  

  The Trust Agreement provides that the Trust will
terminate in the event total future net revenues attributable to the
Partnership s interest in the Royalty as determined by independent petroleum
engineers, as of the end of any year, are less than $2.0 million. See  Business Termination
of the Trust .  

  The Working Interest
Owners have advised the Trust that there have been no events subsequent to October 31,
2005 that have caused a significant change in the estimated proved reserves
referred to in the DeGolyer and MacNaughton letter.  

     Operations and Production   

  Reference is made to the Section entitled  Operations 
under Item 7 of this Form 10-K for information concerning
operations and production.  

17  

DEGOLYER AND MACNAUGHTON 
4925 GREENVILLE AVENUE, SUITE 400 
ONE ENERGY SOUARE 
DALLAS, TEXAS 75206  

    LETTER REPORT 
 as of 
OCTOBER 31, 2005 
on 
RESERVES and REVENUE 
  of 
CERTAIN PROPERTIES owned by the 
TEL OFFSHORE TRUST PARTNERSHIP 

   SEC CASE   

18  

DEGOLYER AND
MACNAUGHTON 
4925 GREENVILLE AVENUE, SUITE 400 
ONE ENERGY SOUARE 
DALLAS, TEXAS 75206   

     January 31,
2006   

  Chevron U.S.A. Inc. 
Chevron Place 
935 Gravier Street 
New Orleans, Louisiana 70012  

  Gentlemen:  

  Pursuant to your request, we have prepared estimates,
as of October 31, 2005, of the extent and value of the proved crude oil,
condensate, and natural gas reserves of a net profits interest owned by TEL
Offshore Trust Partnership (the Trust Partnership). This net profits interest
(the Trust Partnership Interest) is in certain offshore leases owned by Chevron
U.S.A. Inc. (Chevron), as successor in title to Tenneco Oil Company (Tenneco),
by Pennzoil Petroleum Company (Pennzoil), as successor in title to Chevron, and
by Texaco Exploration and Production, Inc. (Texaco), as successor in title
to Chevron. The interest appraised consists of a 25-percent net profits
interest in 17 leases (the Subject Properties), which are located in the
Gulf of Mexico offshore from Louisiana. Before acquisition by Chevron, the Subject
Properties had been transferred to Tenneco upon the dissolution of Tenneco
Exploration Ltd. (Exploration I), a limited partnership formerly consisting of
Tenneco and Tenneco West Inc. Exploration I conveyed the net profits interest
to the Trust Partnership, which is 99.99-percent owned by TEL Offshore
Trust, by the Conveyance of Overriding Royalty Interests effective January 1,
1983. The Subject Properties were acquired by Chevron on November 18,
1988. Certain of the Subject Properties were subsequently acquired by Pennzoil
effective July 1, 1992, and certain others were acquired by Texaco
effective December 1, 1994. One of the Pennzoil Subject Properties was
subsequently acquired by SONAT Exploration Company (SONAT) and certain other
Pennzoil Subject Properties were acquired by Amoco Production Company (Amoco),
both effective October 1, 1995. The SONAT property was subsequently
acquired by Amerada Hess Corporation (Amerada Hess) effective January 1,
1998, which property was then acquired by Anadarko Petroleum Corporation
(Anadarko) effective June 1, 2003 and subsequently acquired by Apache
Corporation (Apache) effective October 1, 2004. Another of the Pennzoil
Subject Properties was acquired by Devon Energy Production Co. (Devon)
effective December 29, 1999. Chevron Corporation, of which Chevron is a
wholly owned subsidiary, and Texaco Inc., of which Texaco is a wholly owned
subsidiary, merged on October 9, 2001. As a result of the merger, Texaco
became a wholly owned subsidiary of Chevron Corporation. Subsequent to the
merger, Texaco assigned the interests in its properties to Chevron. These
companies mentioned herein are hereinafter referred to as the Owners. The
Managing Partner of the Trust Partnership is Chevron.  

  Information used in the preparation of this report was
obtained from the Owners. During this investigation, we consulted freely with
the officers and employees of the Owners and were given access to such
accounts, records, geological and engineering reports, and other data as were
desired for examination. In the preparation of this report we have relied,
without independent verification, upon information furnished by the Owners with
respect to property interests owned by the Trust Partnership, production from
such properties, current costs of operation and development, current prices for
production, agreements relating to current and future operations and sale of
production, and various other information and data that were accepted as
represented. It was not considered necessary to make a field examination of the
physical condition and operation of the Subject Properties. Additionally, this
information includes data supplied by Petroleum Information/Dwights LLC;
Copyright 2005 Petroleum Information/Dwights LLC.  

19     

Our reserves estimates are based on a detailed study
of the Subject Properties and were prepared by the use of standard geological
and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry. The
method or combination of methods used in the analysis of each reservoir was
tempered by experience with similar reservoirs, consideration of the stage of
development of the reservoir, and the quality and completeness of basic data.  

  Reserves estimated herein are expressed as gross and
net reserves. Gross reserves are defined as the total estimated petroleum to be
produced from the Subject Properties after October 31, 2005. Combined net
reserves are defined as those reserves remaining after deducting royalties and
interests owned by others from gross reserves. Net reserves are defined as that
portion of the combined net reserves attributable to the interests owned by the
Trust Partnership. Gas volumes are expressed as sales-gas reserves at a
temperature of 60 degrees Fahrenheit and at a legal pressure base of 14.73
pounds per square inch absolute. Sales gas is defined as the total gas to be
produced from the reservoirs, measured at the point of delivery, after
reduction for fuel usage, flare, and shrinkage resulting from field separation
and processing. Condensate reserves estimated herein are those to be obtained
by normal separator recovery.  

  Petroleum reserves included in this report are
classified as proved and are judged to be economically producible in future
years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions
and assuming continuation of current regulatory practices using conventional
production methods and equipment. In the analyses of production-decline curves,
reserves were estimated only to the limit of economic rates of production under
existing economic and operating conditions using prices and costs as of the
date the estimate is made, including consideration of changes in existing
prices provided only by contractual arrangements but not including escalations
based upon future conditions. The petroleum reserves are classified as follows:  

    Proved       Reserves    that have
been proved to a high degree of certainty by analysis of the producing history
of a reservoir and/or by volumetric analysis of adequate geological and
engineering data. Commercial productivity has been established by actual
production, successful testing, or in certain cases by favorable core analyses
and electrical-log interpretation when the producing characteristics of
the formation are known from nearby fields. Volumetrically, the structure,
areal extent, volume, and characteristics of the reservoir are well defined by
a reasonable interpretation of adequate subsurface well control and by known
continuity of hydrocarbon-saturated material above known fluid contacts, if
any, or above the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons. 

    Developed       Reserves    that are
recoverable from existing wells with current operating methods and expenses. 

  Developed reserves include
both producing and nonproducing reserves. Estimates of producing reserves
assume recovery by existing wells producing from present completion intervals
with normal operating methods and expenses. Developed nonproducing reserves are
in reservoirs behind the casing or at minor depths below the producing zone and
are considered proved by production from other wells in the field, by
successful drill-stem tests, or by core analyses from the particular zones.
Nonproducing reserves require only moderate expense to be brought into
production.  

    Undeveloped       Reserves    that are
recoverable from additional wells yet to be drilled. 

  Undeveloped reserves are
those considered proved for production by reasonable geological interpretation
of adequate subsurface control in reservoirs that are producing or proved by
other wells but are not recoverable from existing wells. This classification of
reserves requires drilling of additional wells, major deepening of existing
wells, or installation of enhanced recovery or other facilities.  

  All of the proved reserves estimated herein are
classified as proved developed. There are no proved undeveloped reserves for
the properties evaluated in this report.  

20     

The properties evaluated consist of 17 leases located
offshore from Louisiana. These 17 leases include 9 productive properties
(including 2 leases covering separate portions of the south half of Ship Shoal
Block 183) and 8 leases to which no reserves have been assigned. Devon,
Pennzoil, Apache, and Amoco own an interest in one property each, none of which
are productive. Chevron owns an interest in the remaining 13 properties,
including 4 to which no reserves have been assigned.  

  The
reserves volumes and revenue values shown in this report were estimated from
projections of reserves and revenue attributable to the  Combined Interests, 
defined herein as the Trust Partnership Interests and the interests retained in
the Subject Properties by Chevron, Pennzoil, Apache, Amoco, or Devon. Net
reserves attributable to the Trust Partnership Interests were estimated by
allocating to the Trust Partnership a portion of the estimated combined net
reserves of the Subject Properties based on future revenue. The formula used to
estimate the net reserves attributable to the Trust Partnership Interest is as
follows:  

Trust Partnership Interest
  net reserves =  

Trust Partnership
  Interest 
  future net revenue  

Combined net reserves 

Combined future
  gross revenue  

This formula was applied separately to the Pennzoil,
Apache, Amoco, and Devon groups of properties and then to the Chevron
(remaining properties) group; the results were then added together to obtain
the total reserves for the Trust Partnership Interest. Because the net reserves
volumes attributable to the Trust Partnership Interest are estimated using an
allocation of reserves based on estimates of future revenue, a change in prices
or costs will result in changes in the estimated net reserves. Therefore, the
estimated net reserves attributable to the Trust Partnership Interest will vary
if different future price and cost assumptions are used. Trust Partnership
Interest net revenue and net reserves estimates included in this report have
been estimated from reserves and revenue attributable to the Combined Interests
using procedures and calculation methods as specified by Chevron and represented
by Chevron to be in accordance with the Conveyance of Overriding Royalty
Interests.  

  Units have been formed for several common reservoirs
that underlie the Subject Properties and adjacent leases. In those cases, the
estimated gross reserves of the entire reservoir are shown and the resulting
combined Trust Partnership and Chevron, Pennzoil, Apache, Amoco, or Devon
interests in the reservoir unit are used to estimate these Combined Interests
net reserves.  

  Data available from wells drilled on the appraised properties
through October 2005 were used in estimating gross ultimate recovery.
Gross production through October 31, 2005, was deducted from the gross
ultimate recovery to arrive at estimates of gross reserves. Production from
some of the properties was halted in the third quarter of 2005 as a result of
hurricanes. Production is expected to resume in the first quarter of 2006.  

21  

Estimated
net proved reserves attributable to the Trust Partnership Interest, as of October 31,
2005, are summarized as follows, expressed in barrels (bbl) and thousands of
cubic feet (Mcf):  

(1)             Production was estimated
based on the ratio as of October 31, 2004, of the Trust Partnership
Interest net reserves to the Combined Interests net reserves. This ratio was
then applied to the production net to the Combined Interests for the period
from November 1, 2004 through October 31, 2005. 

  Revenue values in this report are expressed in terms
of estimated combined future net revenue, future net revenue attributable to
the Trust Partnership Interest, and present worth of these future net revenues.
Future gross revenue is that revenue which will accrue from the production and
sale of the estimated combined net reserves. Combined future net revenue values
were calculated by deducting operating expenses and capital costs from the
future gross revenue of the Combined Interests. These monthly values for the
aggregate of the Combined Interests in the Subject Properties were reduced by a
trust overhead charge furnished by Chevron. Capital and abandonment costs for
longer-life properties were accrued at the end of each quarter in amounts
specified by Chevron beginning in January 2006. The future accrual or
escrow amounts for each of the five groups of properties were deducted from the
combined future net revenue at the end of each quarter, as specified by
Chevron. Interest on the balance of the accrued capital and abandonment costs
at the rate of 1.98 percent per year as specified by Chevron was credited
monthly. The adjusted revenue resulting from subtracting the overhead charge
and accrued capital and abandonment costs was multiplied by a factor of
25 percent to arrive at the future net revenue attributable to the Trust Partnership
Interest. The above calculations were made monthly for each of the five groups
of the properties (Chevron, Pennzoil, Apache, Amoco, and Devon). Interest was
charged monthly on the net profits deficit balances (costs not recovered
currently) at the rate of 1.98 percent per year as specified by Chevron.
Present worth is defined as future net revenue discounted at a specified
arbitrary discount rate compounded monthly over the expected period of
realization; in this report, present worth values using a discount rate of 10
percent are reported. Future income tax expenses were not taken into account in
estimating future net revenue and present worth. No deductions were made in the
foregoing reserves estimates for any outstanding production payments.  

22     

Revenue
values in this report were estimated using the initial prices and costs
provided by Chevron. Future prices were estimated using guidelines established
by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB). These guidelines require the use of prices
for oil and condensate in effect on October 31, 2005. The following
assumptions were used for estimating future prices and costs:  

     Oil and Condensate Prices   

  Oil and condensate prices
were furnished by Chevron and were the prices in effect on October 31,
2005. These prices were used as initial prices with no increases based on
inflation.  

     Natural Gas Prices   

  Initial gas prices
furnished by Chevron were prices in effect on October 31, 2005. These
initial prices were held constant for the life of the properties.  

     Operating Expenses and Capital
Costs   

  Current estimates of
operating expenses were used for the life of the properties with no increases
in the future based on inflation. Future capital expenditures were estimated
using 2005 values and were not adjusted for inflation. Abandonment costs have
been estimated as capital costs for all properties, including the eight leases
which are considered depleted and to which no reserves have been assigned.  

  A
summary of estimated revenue and costs attributable to the Combined Interests
in proved reserves of the Subject Properties and the future net revenue and
present worth attributable to the Trust Partnership Interest, as of October 31,
2005, is as follows:  

(1)             Includes abandonment
costs. 

  (2)             Future income tax
expenses were not taken into account in the preparation of these estimates. 

23     

In our opinion, the information relating to estimated
proved reserves, estimated future net revenue from proved reserves, and present
worth of estimated future net revenue from proved reserves of oil, condensate,
and gas contained in this report has been prepared in accordance with
Paragraphs 10 13, 15 and 30(a) (b) of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 69 (November 1982) of the FASB and Rules 4-10(a) (1)-(13)
of Regulation S-X and Rule 302(b) of Regulation S-K of the SEC;
provided, however, future income tax expenses have not been taken into account
in estimating the future net revenue and present worth values set forth herein.  

  To the extent the above-enumerated rules, regulations,
and statements require determinations of an accounting or legal nature or
information beyond the scope of this report, we are necessarily unable to
express an opinion as to whether the above-described information is in
accordance therewith or sufficient therefor.  

  In our
opinion, we have made the investigations necessary to enable us to estimate the
petroleum reserves reported herein. Estimates of oil, condensate, and gas
reserves and future net revenue should be regarded only as estimates that may
change as further production history and additional information become
available. Not only are such reserves and revenue estimates based on that
information which is currently available, but such estimates are also subject
to the uncertainties inherent in the application of judgmental factors in
interpreting such information.  

Submitted, 

DeGOLYER and MacNAUGHTON  

Thomas A. Schob,
  P.E.  

Senior
  Vice President   

DeGolyer and
  MacNaughton  

24  

MARKETING   

  The amount of cash distributions by the Trust is
dependent on, among other things, the sales prices for oil and gas produced
from the Royalty Properties and the quantities of oil and gas sold.  

  It should be noted that
substantial uncertainties exist with regard to future oil and gas prices, which
are subject to material fluctuations due to changes in production levels and
pricing and other actions taken by major petroleum producing nations, as well
as the regional supply and demand for gas, weather, industrial growth,
conservation measures, competition and other variables.  

     Gas Marketing   

  During the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005,
all of Chevron s natural gas and natural gas liquids relative to the Trust s
Royalty Properties were committed and sold to Chevron Texaco Natural Gas at
spot market prices. Prior to April 2003, all of Chevron s natural gas and
natural gas liquids relative to the Trust s Royalty Properties had been
committed and sold to Dynegy, Inc. ( Dynegy ) at spot market prices. See  Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions  under Item 13 of this Form 10-K.  

  During 2003, Dynegy made a strategic decision to exit
the natural gas marketing and trading business and requested Chevron to
consider early termination of the existing contracts. In January 2003,
Chevron and a subsidiary of Dynegy agreed to terminate those contracts which
had been scheduled to run through August 2006. In April 2003, Chevron
formed a new division, ChevronTexaco Natural Gas, to market its production to
various third party purchasers under a mix of term and spot agreements.  

  It should be noted that the Conveyance provides that
amounts received by the producer pursuant to  take-or-pay  provisions are not
included within the Royalty payable to the Trust unless and until gas is
actually delivered pursuant to the  make-up  provisions, if any, of the
applicable contract. Accordingly, amounts received by the Working Interest
Owners as  take-or-pay  payments are not included in the calculation of the
Royalty payable, and the income received by the Trust is restricted to amounts
paid for gas actually delivered.  

  Due to the seasonal nature of demand for natural gas
and its effects on sales prices and production volumes, the amount of gas sold
with respect to the Royalty Properties may vary. Generally, production volumes
and prices are higher during the first and fourth quarters of each calendar
year. Because of the time lag between the date on which the Working Interest
Owners receive payment for production from the Royalty Properties and the date
on which distributions are made to Unit holders, the seasonality that generally
affects production volumes and prices is generally reflected in distributions
to the Trust in later periods.  

  The following paragraphs discuss the marketing of gas
from the principal Royalty Properties.  

    West
Cameron 643.          West
Cameron 643 contributed approximately 21% of the revenues from natural gas
sales from the Royalty Properties in 2005. The average price received for
natural gas from all of the Working Interest Owner s purchasers on West Cameron
643 during 2005 was $6.97 per Mcf. 

   East     Cameron
371/381.         East
Cameron 371/381 has negative revenues from natural gas sales during 2005 as a
result of adjustments made by the Working Interest Owner. 

   Ship     Shoal 182/183.         Ship Shoal 182/183 contributed
approximately 39% of the revenues from gas sales from the Royalty Properties in
2005. The average price received for natural gas from all of the Working
Interest Owner s purchasers on Ship Shoal 182/183 during 2005 was $7.23 per
Mcf. 

   Eugene     Island 339.         Eugene Island 339 contributed approximately
40% of the revenues from natural gas sales from the Royalty Properties in 2005.
The average price received for natural gas from all of the Working Interest
Owner s purchasers on Eugene Island 339 during 2005 was $7.55 per Mcf. 

25     

Oil Marketing   

  Crude oil purchases by
ChevronTexaco, accounted for approximately 99% of total crude oil revenues from
the Royalty Properties during both 2004 and 2005.  

  During 2002 and through March 2003,
Equiva Trading Company (Texaco s crude marketing joint venture) purchased crude
oil pursuant to TEPI s tendering program based on the prices TEPI received from
third parties under a competitive bidding procedure. Beginning in April 2003,
Chevron began marketing the crude oil through its downstream company, Global
Trading.  

  The Supply and
Distribution Department of Chevron currently purchases crude oil at prices
based on its own published pricing bulletins with an adjustment for gravity and
transportation charges. Average monthly prices for fiscal year 2005 ranged from
$44.58 per barrel to $59.92 per barrel.  

     COMPETITION AND
REGULATION   

     Competition   

  The Working Interest
Owners experience competition from other oil and gas companies in all phases of
its operations. Numerous companies participate in the exploration for and
production of oil and gas. The Working Interest Owners have advised the Trust
that they believe that their competitive positions are affected by price and
contract terms. Business is affected not only by such competition, but also by
general economic developments, governmental regulations and other factors.  

     Regulation General   

  The production of oil and
gas by the Working Interest Owners is affected by many state and federal
regulations with respect to allowable rates of production, drilling permits,
well spacing, marketing, environmental matters and pricing. Future regulations
could change allowable rates of production or the manner in which oil and gas
operations may be lawfully conducted. Sales of natural gas in interstate
commerce for resale and the transportation of natural gas in interstate
commerce are subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
( FERC ) under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, as amended (the  Natural Gas Act ).  

  The operations of the
Working Interest Owners under federal oil and gas leases offshore the United
States are subject to regulations of the United States Department of Interior
which currently impose absolute liability upon lessees for the cost of cleanup
of pollution resulting from their operations.  

     FERC Regulation   

  In general, the FERC
regulates the tansportation of natural gas in interstate commerce by interstate
pipelines. Over the course of approximately the previous decade, the FERC
adopted regulations resulting in a restructuring of the natuni gas industry.
The principal elements of this restructuring were the requirement that
interstate pipelines separate, or  unbundle,  into individual components the
various services offered on their systems, with all transportation services to
be provided on a non-discriminatory basis, and the prohibition against an
interstate pipeline providing gas sales services except through
separately-organized affiliates. In various rulemaking proceedings following
its initial unbundling requirement, the FERC has refined its regulatory program
applicable to interstate pipelines in various respects, and it has announced
that it will continue to monitor these regulations to detennine whether further
changes are needed. As to these various developments, the working interest
owners have advised the Trust that the on-going and evolving nature of these
regulatory initiatives makes it impossible to predict their ultimate impact on
the prices, markets or teims of sale of namral gas related to the Trust.  

26     

State and Other Regulation   

  State regulation of gathering facilities generally
includes various safety, environmental, and in some circumstances,
non-discriminatory take requirements. Some states have implemented more
stringent legislation in recent years to regulate gathering rates charged by
gas gathering companies, but to date the effect on the Working Interests Owners
in connection with the Trust has been minimal.  

  Natural gas pipeline
facilities used for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce
are subject to Federal minimum safety requirements. These requirements,
however, are not applicable to,   inter alia  ,:
(1) onshore gathering facilities outside: (i) the limits of any
incorporated or unincorporated city, town, or village; and (ii) any
designated residential or commercial area; or (2) pipeline facilities on
the Outer Continental Shelf ( OCS ) upstream of the point at which operating
responsibility transfers from a producing operator to a transporting operator.   See   49 C.F.R.   192.1(b). We are
informed that the Royalty Properties are located in Federal waters on the OCS.
The standards governing pipeline safety have undergone recent changes and it is
possible that future changes in the regulations and statutes may occur which
may increase the stringency of the standards or expand the applicability of the
standards to facilities not currently covered.  

     Environmental Regulations   

   General   

  The Working Interest Owners  oil and gas activities on
the Royalty Properties are subject to existing and evolving federal, state and
local environmental laws and regulations. The Working Interest Owners have
advised the Trust that they believe that their operations and facilities are in
general compliance with applicable health, safety, and environmental laws and
regulations that have taken effect at the federal, state and local levels. In
addition, events in recent years have heightened environmental concerns about
the oil and gas industry generally, and about offshore operations in
particular. The Working Interest Owners  operation of federal offshore oil and
gas leases is subject to extensive governmental regulation, including
regulations that may, in certain circumstances, impose absolute liability upon
lessees for cost of removal of pollution and for pollution damages resulting
from their operations, and require lessees to suspend or cease operations in
the affected areas.  

  Under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended by the
Coast Guard Authorization Act of 1996, (collectively,  OPA ), parties
responsible for offshore facilities must establish and maintain evidence of
oil-spill financial responsibility ( OSFR ) for costs attributable to potential
oil spills. OPA requires a minimum of $35 million in OSFR for offshore
facilities located on the OCS. This amount is subject to upward regulatory
adjustment up to $150 million. Responsible parties for more than one
offshore facility are required to provide OSFR only for their offshore facility
requiring the highest OSFR. In 1998, the Minerals Management Service adopted
regulations for establishing the amount of OSFR required for particular
facilities. The amount of OSFR increases as the volume of a facility s
worst-case oil spill increases. Accordingly, for facilities with worst-case
spills of less than 35,000 barrels, only $35 million in OSFR is required;
for worst-case spills of over 35,000 barrels, $70 million is required; for
worst-case spills of over 70,000 barrels, $105 million is required; and
for worst-case spills of over 105,000 barrels, $150 million is required.
In addition, all OSFR below $150 million remains subject to upward
regulatory adjustment if warranted by the particular operational,
environmental, human health or other risks involved with a facility. The
Working Interest Owners are currently maintaining their required OSFR. Although
the Working Interest Owners have advised the Trust that current environmental
regulation has had no material adverse effect on the Working Interest Owners 
present method of operations, future environmental regulatory developments such
as stricter environmental regulation and enforcement policies cannot presently
be quantified.  

27     

The Working Interest
Owners  operations are subject to regulation, principally under the following
federal statutes, along with their analogous state statutes.  

   Water   

  The Federal Water
Pollution Control Act of 1972, as amended, and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990
impose certain liabilities and penalties upon persons and entities, such as the
Working Interest Owners, for any discharges of petroleum products in reportable
quantities, for the costs of removing an oil spill, and for natural resource
damages. State laws for the control of water pollution also provide varying
civil and criminal penalties and liabilities in the case of a release of
petroleum or its derivatives in surface waters. The federal NPDES permits
prohibit the discharge of produced water, sand and other substances related to
the oil and gas industry to coastal waters of Louisiana and Texas. The Working
Interest Owners have advised the Trust that these costs have not had a material
adverse impact on their operations.  

   Air Emissions   

  Amendments to the federal
Clean Air Act were enacted in late 1990 and require most industrial operations
in the United States, including offshore operations, to incur capital
expenditures for air emission control equipment in connection with maintaining
and obtaining operating permits and approvals addressing other air emission
related issues. The Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) and state
environmental agencies have been developing regulations to implement these
requirements. Some of the Working Interest Owners  facilities are included
within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources which will be affected
by these regulations and these regulations could make operation of the Royalty
Properties more costly.  

   Solid Waste   

  The Working Interest
Owners  operations may generate wastes that are subject to the federal Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ) and comparable state statutes. The EPA
has limited disposal options for certain hazardous wastes and may adopt more
stringent disposal standards for nonhazardous wastes. Furthermore, it is
possible that some wastes that are currently classified as nonhazardous,
perhaps including wastes generated during drilling and production operations,
may in the future be designated as  hazardous wastes.  Such changes in the
regulations would result in more rigorous and costly disposal requirements
which could result in increased operating expenses on the Royalty Properties.  

   Norm   

  Oil and gas exploration
and production activities have been identified as generators of low-level
naturally-occurring radioactive materials ( NORM ). The generation, handling
and disposal of NORM in the course of offshore oil and gas exploration and
production activities is currently regulated in federal and state waters. These
regulations could result in an increase in operating expenses on the Royalty
Properties.  

   Superfund   

  The Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ( CERCLA ), also known
as the  Superfund  law, imposes liability, without regard to the fault or the
legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that
contributed to the release of a  hazardous substance  into the environment.
These persons include the current or previous owner and operator of a facility
and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous
substance found at a facility. CERCLA also authorizes the EPA and, in some
cases, private parties to take actions in response to threats to the public
health or the environment and to seek recovery from such responsible classes of
persons of   

28     

the
costs, which can be substantial, of such action. Although  petroleum  is
excluded from CERCLA s definition of a  hazardous substance , in the course of
their operations, the Working Interest Owners may generate wastes that fall
within CERCLA s definition of  hazardous substances.  The Working Interest
Owners may be responsible under CERCLA for all or part of the costs to clean up
facilities at which such substances have been disposed. Such clean-up costs may
make operation of the Royalty Properties more expensive for the Working
Interest Owners.  

   Offshore Operations   

  Offshore oil and gas
operations are subject to regulations of the United States Department of the
Interior, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the Outer Continental
Shelf Lands Act, which impose liability upon a lessee, such as the Working
Interest Owners, under a federal lease for the cost of clean-up of pollution
resulting from a lessee s operations. In the event of a serious incident of
pollution, the Department of the Interior may require a lessee under federal
leases to suspend or cease operations in the affected areas.  

     Item 1A.       Risk Factors.     

  Although risk factors are
described elsewhere in this Form 10-K together with specific
forward-looking statements, the following is a summary of the principal risks
associated with an investment in Units in the Trust.  

   Natural gas and oil
prices fluctuate due to a number of factors, and lower prices will reduce net
proceeds available to the Trust and distributions to Trust Unit holders.   

  The Trust s quarterly
distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of
natural gas and oil. Natural gas and oil prices can fluctuate widely on a
month-to-month basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the
control of the Trust and the Working Interest Owners. Factors that contribute
to price fluctuation include, among others:  

             political
conditions worldwide, in particular political disruption, war and other armed
conflict in oil producing regions such as Iraq; 

             worldwide
economic conditions; 

             weather
conditions; 

             the
supply and price of foreign natural gas; 

             the
level of consumer demand; 

             the
price and availability of alternative fuels; 

             the
proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; and 

             the
effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. 

  Moreover, government regulations, such as regulation
of natural gas and oil transportation and price controls, can affect product
prices in the long term.  

29  

Lower natural gas and oil
prices may reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that is economic to produce
and reduce net profits available to the Trust. The volatility of energy prices
reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to Unit holders. A
significant percentage of the natural gas and natural gas liquids produced from
the Royalty Properties is currently being sold to various third party
purchasers under a mix of term and spot agreements by ChevronTexaco Natural
Gas. A majority of crude oil produced by the Royalty Properties is being sold
to subsidiaries of ChevronTexaco in competitive bidding or based on pricing
bulletins.  

   Increased
production and development costs for the Royalty will result in decreased Trust
distributions.   

  Production and development costs attributable to the
Royalty are deducted in the calculation of the Trust s share of net proceeds.
Accordingly, higher or lower production and development costs, without
concurrent increases in revenues, directly decrease or increase the amount
received by the Trust for the Royalty.  

  During 2005, Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita
caused significant damage to various platforms and third-party transportation
systems. The extensive damage caused by these hurricanes has led to significant
demand for services and supplies for repairs in the offshore Gulf of Mexico.
These incurred costs may reduce Royalty income.  

  If development and
production costs of the Royalty exceed the proceeds of production from the
Royalty Properties, the Trust will not receive net proceeds for those
properties until future proceeds from production exceed the total of the excess
costs plus accrued interest during the deficit period. Development activities
may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay the costs.  

   Trust reserve estimates depend on many assumptions
that may prove to be inaccurate, which could cause both estimates of reserves
and estimated future revenues to be too high or too low.   

  The value of the
Units depends upon, among other things, the amount of reserves attributable to
the Royalty and the estimated future value of the reserves. Estimating reserves
is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and
expenditures for the underlying properties will vary from estimates and those variations
could be material. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make
assumptions in estimating reserves. Those factors and assumptions include:  

             historical
production from the area compared with production rates from similar producing
areas; 

             the
assumed effect of governmental regulation; and 

             assumptions
about future commodity prices, production and development costs, severance and
excise taxes, and capital expenditures. 

  Changes in these assumptions can materially change
reserve estimates.  

  The reserve quantities
attributable to the Royalty and revenues are based on estimates of reserves and
revenues for the underlying properties. The method of allocating a portion of
those reserves to the Trust is complicated because the Trust, indirectly through
the Partnership, holds an interest in the Royalty and does not own a specific
percentage of the natural gas reserves.  

  The Trustee also relies
entirely on reserve estimates and related information prepared by Chevron and
the independent reserve engineer engaged by the Trust.  While the Trustee has no reason to believe
the reserve estimates included in this report are not accurate, to the extent
additional information exists that could affect their reserve estimates, the
estimated reserves in these reports could also be too low.  

30     

Operating risks for
the Working Interest Owners  interests in the Royalty Properties can adversely
affect Trust distributions.   

  The occurrence of drilling, production or
transportation accidents and other natural disasters at any of the Royalty
Properties will reduce Trust distributions by the amount of uninsured costs.
These occurrences include blowouts, cratering, explosions and other
environmental damage. Offshore activities are also subject to a variety of
additional operating risks, such as hurricanes and other weather disturbances.
These accidents may result in personal injuries, property damage, damage to
productive formations or equipment and environmental damages. Any uninsured
costs would be deducted as a production cost in calculating net proceeds
payable to the Trust.  

  As described in this report, Hurricanes Katrina and
Rita caused significant damage during 2005. Even if platforms and facilities on
the Royalty Properties are restored in a timely manner during 2006, delays in
repairs on third-party transportation systems may continue to limit production
and Royalty income from the Royalty Properties.  

   The operators of the working interests are subject to
extensive governmental regulation.   

  Offshore oil and gas
operations have been, and in the future will be, affected by federal, state and
local laws and regulations and other political developments, such as price or
gathering rate controls and environmental protection regulations. These
regulations and changes in regulations could have a material adverse effect on
Royalty income payable to the Trust.  

   None of the
Trustees, the Trust nor its Unit holders control the operation or development
of the Royalty Properties and have little influence over operation or
development.   

  Neither the Trustees nor the Unit holders can
influence or control the operation or future development of the underlying
properties. The Royalty Properties are owned by independent Working Interest
Owners. The Working Interest Owners manage the underlying properties and handle
receipt and payment of funds relating to the Royalty Properties and payments to
the Trust for the Royalty.  

  Information regarding operations provided by the
Working Interest Owners has been subject to errors and adjustments, some of which
have been significant. Accordingly, the Trustees cannot assure Unit holders
that other errors or adjustments by Working Interest Owners, whether historical
or future, will not affect future Royalty income and distributions by the
Trust.  

  The current Working
Interest Owners are under no obligation to continue operating the properties.
Neither the Trustees nor the Unit holders have the right to replace an
operator.  

   The Trustee relies
upon the working interests owners and managing general partner for information
regarding the Royalty Properties.   

  The Trustee relies on the
working interest owners and managing general partner for information regarding
the Royalty Properties.  The working
interest owners alone control (i) historical operating data, including
production volumes, marketing of products, operating and capital expenditures,
environmental and other liabilities, effects of regulatory changes and the
number of producing wells and acreage, (ii) plans for future operating and
capital expenditures, (iii) geological data relating to reserves, as well as
related projections regarding production, operating expenses and capital
expenses used in connection with the preparation of the reserve report, (iv)
forward-looking information relating to production and drilling plans and (v)
information regarding the Royalty Properties responsive to litigation
claims.  While the Trustee requests
material information for use in periodic reports as part of its disclosure
controls and procedures, the Trustee does not control this information and
relies entirely on the working interest owners to  provide accurate and timely information when
requested for use in the Trust s periodic reports.  The Trustee also relies on the managing
general partner of the Partnership to collect certain information   

31     

from the
working interest owners and does not have any direct contact with the working
interest owners other than the managing general partner.  Under the terms of the Trust Indenture, the
Trustee is entitled to rely, and in fact relies, on certain experts in good
faith.  While the Trustee has no reason
to believe its reliance on experts is unreasonable, this reliance on experts
and limited access to information may be viewed as a weakness as compared to
the management and oversight to entity forms other than trusts.  

   The owner of any Royalty
Property may abandon any property, terminating the related Royalty.   

  The Working Interest Owners may at any time transfer
all or part of the Royalty Property to another unrelated third party. Unit
holders are not entitled to vote on any transfer, and the Trust will not
receive any proceeds of any such transfer. Following any transfer, the Royalty
Properties will continue to be subject to the Royalty, but the net proceeds
from the transferred property would be calculated separately and paid by the
transferee. The transferee would be responsible for all of the obligations
relating to calculating, reporting and paying to the Trust the Royalty on the
transferred portion of the Royalty Properties, and the current owner of the
Royalty Properties would have no continuing obligation to the Trust for those
properties.  

  The current Working
Interest Owners or any transferee may abandon any well or property if it
reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce in
commercially economic quantities. This could result in termination of the
Royalty relating to the abandoned well.  

   The Royalty can be
sold and the Trust can be terminated.   

  The Trust will be terminated and the Trustees must sell
the Royalty if holders of a majority of the Units approve the sale or vote to
terminate the Trust, or if the total future net revenues attributable to the
Royalty, determined by the independent reserve engineer as of December 31 of
the prior year, are less than $2 million. Following any such termination and
liquidation, the net proceeds of any sale will be distributed to the Unit
holders and Unit holders will receive no further distributions from the Trust.
We cannot assure you that any such sale will be on terms acceptable to all Unit
holders. For a more complete description of these matters, see   Termination of
the Trust  under Item 1 of this Form 10 K.  

   Trust assets are
depleting assets and, if the Working Interest Owners or other operators of the
Royalty Properties do not perform additional development projects, the assets
may deplete faster than expected.   

  The net proceeds payable
to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets. Accordingly, the
portion of the distributions to Unit holders attributable to depletion may be
considered a return of capital. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a
common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects on the
Royalty Properties will affect the quantity of proved reserves. The timing and
size of these projects will depend on the market prices of natural gas. If
operators of the Royalty Properties do not implement additional maintenance and
development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves
may be higher than the rate currently expected by the Trust. For federal income
tax purposes, depletion is reflected as a deduction, which is dependent upon
the purchase price of a Units. Please see the section entitled   Description of
the Units Federal Income Tax Matters  under Item 1 of this Form 10-K.  

   Unit holders have
limited voting rights   

  Voting rights as a Unit holder are more limited than
those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no
requirement for annual meetings of Unit holders or for an annual or other
periodic re-election of the Trustees. Unlike corporations which are generally
governed by boards of directors elected by their equity holders, the Trust is
administered by a Corporate Trustee and three   

32     

Individual Trustees in
accordance with the Trust Agreement and other organizational documents. The
Trustees have extremely limited discretion in their administration of the
Trust.  

   Unit holders have
limited ability to enforce the Trust s rights against the current or future
owners of the Royalty Properties.   

  The Trust Agreement and
related trust law permit the Trustees and the Trust to sue the Working Interest
Owners to compel them to fulfill the terms of the Conveyance of the Royalty. If
the Trustees do not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the
Conveyance, the recourse of a Unit holder would likely be limited to bringing a
lawsuit against the Trustees to compel the Trustees to take specified actions.
Unit holders probably would not be able to sue the Working Interest Owners
directly.  

     Item 1B.       Unresolved Staff Comments.     

         There were no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission
comments as of December 31, 2005.  

     Item 2  .                               Properties . 

  Reference
is made to Item 1 of this Form 10-K.  

     Item 3  .                               Legal
Proceedings . 

  Currently, there are not
any legal proceedings pending.  

     Item 4  .                               Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders . 

  There were no matters submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of 2005.  

33  

PART II   

     Item 5.          Market for the Registrant s Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters     

  The Trust Units are traded
on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. At December 31, 2005, the 4,751,510 Units
outstanding were held by 2,488 Unit Holders of record. The high and low sales
price as reported by the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, and distributions for each
quarter for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows:  

Item 6.          Selected Financial Data.     

34     

Item 7.          Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations.     

     Critical Accounting Policies   

  The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on
the following basis:  

  (a)             Royalty income is
recorded when received, including the effect of overtaken or undertaken
positions and negative or positive adjustments, by the Corporate Trustee on the
last business day of each calendar quarter. In addition, Royalty income
includes amounts related to funds deposited or released from the Special Cost
Escrow account see (c); and 

  (b)            Trust general and
administrative expenses are recorded when paid, except for the cash reserved
for future general and administrative expenses. 

  (c)             The funds deposited or
released from the Special Cost Escrow account are recorded at the time of
payment or receipt. The Special Cost Escrow account is an account of the
Working Interest Owners and is not reflected in the financial statements of the
Trust. 

  This manner of reporting income and expenses is
considered to be the most meaningful because the quarterly distributions to
Unit holders are based on net cash receipts received from the Working Interest
Owners. The financial statements of the Trust differ from financial statements
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because,
under such principles, Royalty income and Trust general and administrative
expenses for a quarter would be recognized on an accrual basis. In addition,
amortization of the net overriding royalty interest, calculated on a
units-of-production basis, is charged directly to Trust corpus since such amount
does not affect distributable income.  

  The Trustees, including the Corporate Trustee, have no
authority over, have not evaluated and make no statement concerning, the
internal control over financial reporting of the Working Interest Owner.  

     Liquidity and Capital Resources   

  The Trust s source of capital is the Royalty Income
received from its share of the Net Proceeds from the Royalty Properties.
Reference is made to Note 9 in the Notes to Financial Statements under
Item 8 of this Form 10-K, which contains certain unaudited
supplemental reserve information, for an estimate of future Royalty income
attributable to the Partnership, of which the Trust has a 99.99% interest.  

  Substantial uncertainties exist with regard to future
oil and gas prices, which are subject to material fluctuations due to changes
in production levels and pricing and other actions taken by major petroleum
producing nations, as well as the regional supply and demand for gas, weather,
industrial growth, conservation measures, competition and other variables.  

  In accordance with the provisions of the Trust
Agreement, generally all Net Proceeds received by the Trust, net of Trust
general and administrative expenses and any cash reserves established for the
payment of contingent or future obligations of the Trust, are distributed
currently to the Unit holders. In 1994, in anticipation of future periods when
the cash received from the Royalty may not be sufficient for payment of Trust
expenses, the Trust determined, in accordance with the Trust Agreement, to
begin further increasing the Trust s cash reserve each quarter. In the first
quarter of 1998, the Trust determined that the Trust s cash reserve was
currently sufficient to provide for future administrative expenses in
connection with the winding up of the Trust. The Trust determined that a cash
reserve equal to three times the average expenses of the Trust during each of
the past three years was sufficient at this time to provide for future
administrative expenses in connection with the winding up of the Trust.  

  The reserve amount at December 31, 2004 and 2005
was $1,341,014 and $1,364,203, respectively. During the first and second
quarters of 2004, the Trust used $148,798 and $56,333, respectively, from the
Trust s cash reserve account to pay the Trust s general and administrative
expenses when insufficient Royalty income was received by the Trust.  

35     

Operations   

  The following operational information has been based
on information provided to the Corporate Trustee by Chevron as the Managing
General Partner of the Partnership and by the applicable Working Interest
Owners. The Trustees have no control over these operations or internal controls
relating to this information.  

  At the end of October
2005, approximately half of Chevron oil-equivalent production in the Gulf of
Mexico remained shut in due to damages from hurricanes in the third quarter.
The time it will take to resume this production is uncertain, and some of the
volumes may not be sufficiently economic to restore. The impact to the Trust
properties is estimated to be a 68% reduction in production. Eugene Island 339
remains shut-in, but production is currently expected to resume later in 2006
after a new sales platform is built by the operator to replace the Eugene Island
338 sales platform destroyed by Hurricane Rita, and assuming transportation
availability is fully restored on a third-party transmission pipeline that
incurred significant hurricane-related damages. The operator of this pipeline
has advised that hurricane-related damages on their pipeline are more extensive
than previously thought, and the Working Interest Owner has advised the Trustee
that it is currently evaluating various alternatives for transportation as
production is also restored. On Ship Shoal 182/183, gas production remains
shut-in due to the Tennessee Gas pipeline being down. Major repairs are
underway and gas production on Ship Shoal 182/183 is expected to resume in the
second quarter of 2006. On West Cameron 643, production has remained shut-in
since September 2005 following Hurricane Rita s major damage to various
platforms, but gas production on this field is expected to resume in mid-2006.  

   Years 2005 and 2004   

  Royalty income increased approximately 65% from
$5,987,936 in 2004 to $9,854,531 in 2005 primarily due to an increase in gas
revenues and crude oil and condensate revenues as discussed below.  

  For 2005 and 2004, the Trust had no undistributed net
income or loss. Undistributed net income represents positive Net Proceeds
generated during the period that were applied to an existing loss carryforward.
Undistributed net loss represents negative Net Proceeds generated during the
respective period. An undistributed net loss is carried forward and offset, in
future periods, by positive Net Proceeds earned by the related Working Interest
Owner(s).  

  Volumes and dollar amounts
discussed below represent amounts recorded by the Working Interest Owners
unless otherwise specified.  

   Natural Gas and Gas
Products   

  Natural gas revenues and gas products decreased 4%
from $17,002,431 in 2004 to $16,337,625 in 2005, partially offset by a 22%
increase in the average price received for natural gas from $6.07 per Mcf in
2004 to $7.31 Mcf in 2005. Natural gas and gas products volumes decreased 21%
from 2,907,514 Mcf in 2004 to 2,287,314 Mcf in 2005.  

  The Working Interest Owners of the East
Cameron 371/381 property advised the Trust that, as of October 31,
2004, 26,891 Mcf had been overtaken by the Working Interest Owners from
those properties. In addition, the Working Interest Owners of the East Cameron
353 and the West Cameron 643 properties advised the Trust that, as of
October 31, 2004, 518 Mcf and 23,340 Mcf respectively, had been
undertaken from these properties. The Partnership s share of revenues related
to the overtaken gas was included in the Partnership s Royalty income in the
periods during which the gas was sold. During 2005, all cumulative gas
imbalances with the Trust were settled with the Working Interest Owner.  

36  

During the first quarter of 2004, Chevron informed the
Trustees that it would make downward adjustments to revenues and production
based on an improper credit to the Trust of revenues and production on Eugene
Island 339. This improper credit relates to production credited from wells
in which the Trust has no interest from as early as June 2002 through
October 2003. The aggregate amount of these adjustments are expected to be
approximately 236,650 barrels of oil or $6,449,000 for oil revenues, as well as
91,000 Mcf or $505,000 for gas revenues. Recovery by Chevron of these
amounts, as well as certain capital expenditures discussed below, affected
Royalty income and distributable income in the first and second quarters of
2004.  

   Crude Oil and
Condensate   

  Crude oil and condensate revenues increased 44% from
$22,332,005 in 2004 to $32,051,988 in 2005, due primarily to a 10% increase in
crude oil and condensate volumes from 589,647 barrels in 2004 to 650,466
barrels in 2005. Additionally, average crude oil and condensate prices
increased by 30% from $37.87 in 2004 to $49.28 in 2005.  

   Operating and
Capital Expenditures   

  Operating expenses paid by the Working Interest Owners
decreased 12% from $4,852,591 in 2004 to $4,257,481 in 2005.  

  Capital expenditures paid
by the Working Interest Owners decreased 88% from $21,673,290 in 2004 to
$2,587,321 in 2005.  

   Special Cost Escrow
Account   

  The special cost escrow account is an account of the
Working Interest Owners, and it is described herein for information purposes
only. The Conveyance provides for the reserve of funds for estimated future  Special
Costs  of plugging and abandoning wells, dismantling platforms and other costs
of abandoning the Royalty Properties, as well as for the estimated amount of
future drilling projects and other capital expenditures on the Royalty
Properties. As provided in the Conveyance, the amount of funds to be reserved
is determined based on factors, including estimates of aggregate future
production costs, aggregate future Special Costs, aggregate future net revenues
and actual current net proceeds. Deposits into this account reduce current
distributions and are placed in an escrow account and invested in short-term
certificates of deposit. Such account is herein referred to as the  Special
Cost Escrow Account . The Trust s share of interest generated from the Special
Cost Escrow Account, $115,520 and $66,700 in 2005 and 2004, respectively serves
to reduce the Trust s share of allocated production costs. Special Cost Escrow
funds will generally be utilized to pay Special Costs to the extent there are
not adequate current net proceeds to pay such costs. Special Costs that have
been paid are no longer included in the Special Cost Escrow calculation.
Deposits to the Special Cost Escrow Account will generally be made when the
balance in the Special Cost Escrow Account is less than 125% of future Special
Costs and there is a Net Revenues Shortfall (a calculation of the excess of
estimated future costs over estimated future net revenues pursuant to a formula
contained in the Conveyance). When there is not a Net Revenues Shortfall,
amounts in the Special Cost Escrow account will generally be released, to the
extent that Special Costs have been incurred. Amounts in the Special Cost Escrow
account will also be released when the balance in such account exceeds 125% of
estimated future Special Costs. The discussion of the terms of the Conveyance
and Special Cost Escrow account contained herein is qualified in its entirety
by reference to the Conveyance itself, which is an exhibit to this Form 10-K
and is available upon request from the Corporate Trustee.  

  Chevron, in its capacity as Managing General Partner
of the Partnership, has advised the Trust that additional deposits to the
Special Cost Escrow account may be required in future periods in connection
with other production costs, other abandonment costs, other capital
expenditures and changes on the estimates and factors described above. Such
deposits could result in a significant reduction on Royalty   

37     

income on the periods in
which such deposits are made, including the possibility that no Royalty income
would be received in such periods.  

  In the first quarter of 2006, there was a net deposit
of funds to the Special Cost Escrow Account of approximately $876,000.  

  In 2005, the Working Interest Owners deposited a net
amount to the Trust of $239,000 from the Special Cost Escrow Account. The lower
net deposits compared to 2003 were primarily due to a continued decrease in the
estimate of projected capital expenditures, production costs and abandonment
costs of the Royalty Properties. As of December 31, 2005, approximately
$5,616,000 remained in the Special Cost Escrow Account.  

  In 2004, the Working Interest Owners released a net
amount to the Trust of $3,268,000 from the Special Cost Escrow Account. The
release was made primarily due to a decrease in the estimate of projected
capital expenditures, production costs and abandonment costs of the Royalty
Properties. As of December 31, 2004, approximately $5,376,000 remained in
the Special Cost Escrow Account.  

  Additional deposits to the
Special Cost Escrow Account may be required in future periods in connection
with other production costs, other abandonment costs, other capital
expenditures and changes in the estimates and factors described above. Such
deposits could result in a significant reduction in Royalty income in the
periods in which such deposits are made.  

   Summary By Property   

  Listed below is a summary
of 2005 operations as compared to 2004 of the four principal Royalty Properties
based on gross revenues generated during these periods combined.  

   Eugene Island 339   

  Eugene Island 339 crude oil revenues increased
$7,828,063, from $6,864,643 in 2004 to $14,692,706 in 2005 primarily due to an
increase in production. Crude oil production increased from 163,131 barrels in
2004 to 312,252 barrels in 2005. The average price of crude oil increased from
$42.08 per barrel in 2004 to $47.05 per barrel in 2005. Gas revenues increased
$2,740,898, from $4,303,452 in 2004 to $7,044,350 in 2005 primarily due to an
increase in the average price received for natural gas from $6.36 per Mcf in
2004 to $7.55 per Mcf in 2005. Gas production increased from 764,093 Mcf
in 2004 to 974,036 Mcf in 2005. Capital expenditures decreased from
$11,290,421 in 2004 to $931,625 in 2005. Operating expenses decreased from
$1,560,278 in 2004 to $1,388,428 in 2005.  

  Chevron has advised the
Trust that the foregoing comparison does not give effect to an improper credit
of revenues and production and a miscalculation of capital expenditures that
was allocated during the first quarter of 2004 and recovered by Chevron during
that period and in the second quarter. The aggregate amount of these
adjustments for improper credits of production and revenues from as early as June 2002
through October 2003 were approximately 236,650 barrels of oil or
$6,449,000 for oil revenues, as well as 91,000 Mcf or $505,000 for gas
revenues. The comparison above is included without adjustment as Royalty income
for these periods was calculated and paid based on these amounts.  

   Ship Shoal 182/183   

  Ship Shoal 182/183
crude oil revenues increased from $15,408,655 in 2004 to $16,962,280 in 2005,
partially offset by a decrease in crude oil production from 426,449 barrels in
2004 to 330,512 barrels in 2005. The average crude oil price increased from
$36.13 per barrel in 2004 to $51.32 per barrel in 2005. Gas revenues decreased
from $11,179,380 in 2004 to $6,095,350 in 2005 due to a decrease in gas volumes
from 1,872,307 Mcf in 2004 to 859,925 Mcf in 2005. The average
natural gas sales price increased from   

38     

$6.05
per Mcf in 2004 to $7.23 per Mcf in 2005. Capital expenditures decreased from
$10,292,460 in 2004 to $1,525,562 in 2005. Operating expenses decreased from
$2,565,505 in 2004 to $1,507,792 in 2005.  

   West Cameron 643   

  West Cameron 643 gas
revenues increased from $1,100,793 in 2004 to $3,163,457 in 2005 due primarily
to an increase in gas volumes from 193,978 Mcf in 2004 to 453,674 Mcf in 2005.
The average natural gas sales price increased from $5.67 per Mcf in 2004 to
$6.97 per Mcf in 2005. Operating expenses increased from $592,357 in 2004 to
$1,324,101 in 2005, capital expenditures increased from $19,680 in 2004 to
$86,286 in 2005.  

   East Cameron
371/381   

  East Cameron 371/381
gas revenues decreased from $119,196 in 2004 to ($99,126) in 2005 due primarily
to a decrease in gas volumes from 24,665 Mcf in 2004 to (20,463) Mcf
in 2005. Partially offset by a decrease in the average price for natural gas
from $5.49 in 2004 to $4.47 in 2005. Crude oil revenues decreased from $36,215
in 2004 to ($42,171) in 2005 due primarily to a decrease in crude oil and
condensate volumes. Capital expenditures decreased from $1,497 in 2004 to
($1,560) in 2005 and operating expenses decreased from $58,638 in 2004 to
($11,116) in 2005. East Cameron 371/381 has negative revenues, capital
expenditures and operating expenses during 2005 as a result of adjustments made
by the Working Interest Owner.  

   Years 2004 and 2003   

  Royalty income increased approximately 43% from
$4,174,682 in 2003 to $5,987,936 in 2004 primarily due to an increase in gas
revenues and crude oil and condensate revenues as discussed below.  

  For 2004, the Trust had no undistributed net income or
loss, compared to undistributed net income of $43,468 in 2003.  

  Volumes and dollar amounts
discussed below represent amounts recorded by the Working Interest Owners
unless otherwise specified.  

   Natural Gas and Gas
Products   

  Gas revenues increased 92% from $8,854,319 in 2003 to
$17,002,431 in 2004, partially due to a 9% increase in the average price
received for natural gas from $5.44 per Mcf in 2003 to $6.07 per Mcf in 2004.
The increase in gas revenue was also due to a 76% increase in gas volumes from
1,650,603 Mcf in 2003 to 2,907,514 Mcf in 2004. The increase in gas
volumes were primarily due to a new well on Ship Shoal 182/183 that came
online in January 2004 partially offset by wells sanding upon West
Cameron 643.  

  During the first quarter of 2004, Chevron informed the
Trustees that it would make downward adjustments to revenues and production
based on an improper credit to the Trust of revenues and production on Eugene
Island 339. This improper credit relates to production credited from wells
in which the Trust has no interest from as early as June 2002 through October 2003.
The aggregate amount of these adjustments are expected to be approximately
236,650 barrels of oil or $6,449,000 for oil revenues, as well as
91,000 Mcf or $505,000 for gas revenues. Recovery by Chevron of these amounts,
as well as certain capital expenditures discussed below, affected Royalty
income and distributable income in the first and second quarters of 2004.  

  The Working Interest
Owners of the East Cameron 371/381 property have advised the Trust that,
as of October 31, 2004, 26,891 Mcf had been overtaken by the Working
Interest Owners from those properties. In addition, the Working Interest Owners
of the East Cameron 353 and the West Cameron 643 properties have advised
the Trust that, as of October 31, 2004, 518 Mcf and 23,340 Mcf
respectively, had   

39     

been
undertaken from these properties. The Partnership s share of revenues related
to the overtaken gas was included in the Partnership s Royalty income in the
periods during which the gas was sold. Chevron has advised the Trust that it
believes sufficient gas reserves exist on East Cameron 353 and West Cameron 643
for underproduced parties to recoup their share of the gas imbalance on these
properties.  

   Crude Oil and
Condensate   

  Crude oil and condensate
revenues decreased 37% from $35,660,352 in 2003 to $22,332,005 in 2004, due
primarily to a 52% decrease in crude oil and condensate volumes from 1,231,268
barrels in 2003 to 589,647 barrels in 2004. Additionally, average crude oil and
condensate prices increased by 31% from $28.96 in 2003 to $37.87 in 2004.  

   Operating and
Capital Expenditures   

  Operating expenses paid by the Working Interest Owners
increased 90% from $2,550,959 in 2003 to $4,852,591 in 2004.  

  Capital expenditures paid
by the Working Interest Owners increased 157% from 8,417,420 in 2003 to
$21,673,290 in 2004, due primarily to costs associated with drilling the new F-3
well on Ship Shoal 182/183 in the first quarter, and drilling costs on the
C-20 and C-21 wells on Eugene Island 339 in the first quarter.  

   Special Cost Escrow
Account   

  The special cost escrow account is an account of the
Working Interest Owners, and it is described herein for information purposes
only. The Conveyance provides for the reserve funds for estimated future  Special
Costs  of plugging and abandoning wells, dismantling platforms and other costs
of abandoning the Royalty Properties, as well as for the estimated amount of
future drilling projects and other capital expenditures on the Royalty
Properties. As provided in the Conveyance, the amount of funds to be reserved
is determined based on factors, including estimates of aggregate future
production costs, aggregate future Special Costs, aggregate future net revenues
and actual current net proceeds. Deposits into this account reduce current
distributions and are placed in an escrow account and invested in short-term
certificates of deposit. Such account is herein referred to as the  Special
Cost Escrow Account . The Trust s share of interest generated from the Special
Cost Escrow Account, $66,700 and $55,800 in 2004 and 2003, respectively serves
to reduce the Trust s share of allocated production costs. Special Cost Escrow
Account funds will generally be utilized to pay Special Costs to the extent
there are not adequate current net proceeds to pay such costs. Special Costs
that have been paid are no longer included in the Special Cost Escrow Account
calculation. Deposits to the Special Cost Escrow Account will generally be made
when the balance in the Special Cost Escrow Account is less than 125% of future
Special Costs and there is a Net Revenues Shortfall (a calculation of the
excess of estimated future costs over estimated future net revenues pursuant to
a formula contained in the Conveyance). When there is not a Net Revenues Shortfall,
amounts in the Special Cost Escrow Account will generally be released, to the
extent that Special Costs have been paid. Amounts in the Special Cost Escrow
account will also be released when the balance in such account exceeds 125% of
future Special Costs. The discussion of the terms of the Conveyance and Special
Cost Escrow Account contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference
to the Conveyance itself, which is an exhibit to this Form 10-K and
is available upon request from the Corporate Trustee.  

  In the first quarter of 2005, there was a net deposit
of funds to the Special Cost Escrow Account of approximately $1,922,788.  

  In 2004, the Working Interest Owners released a net
amount to the Trust of $3,267,975 from the Special Cost Escrow Account. The
release was made primarily due to a decrease in the estimate of projected
capital expenditures, production costs and abandonment costs of the Royalty
Properties. As of December 31, 2004, approximately $5,376,000 remained in
the Special Cost Escrow Account.  

40     

In 2003, the Working Interest Owners deposited a net
amount of $3,812,816 into the Special Cost Escrow Account. The deposit was made
primarily due to an increase in the estimate of projected capital expenditures,
production costs and abandonment costs of the Royalty Properties. As of December 31,
2003, approximately $8,573,000 remained in the Special Cost Escrow Account.  

  Additional deposits to the
Special Cost Escrow Account may be required in future periods in connection
with other production costs, other abandonment costs, other capital
expenditures and changes in the estimates and factors described above. Such
deposits could result in a significant reduction in Royalty income in the
periods in which such deposits are made.  

   Summary By Property   

  Listed below is a summary
of 2004 operations as compared to 2003 of the four principal Royalty Properties
based on gross revenues generated during these periods combined.  

   Eugene Island 339   

  Eugene Island 339 crude oil revenues decreased
$9,777,942, from $16,642,585 in 2003 to $6,864,643 in 2004 primarily due to a
decrease in production. Crude oil production decreased from 583,943 barrels in
2003 to 163,131 barrels in 2004. The average price of crude oil increased from
$28.50 per barrel in 2003 to $42.08 per barrel in 2004. Gas revenues increased
$1,245,226, from $3,058,226 in 2003 to $4,303,452 in 2004 primarily due to an
increase in the average price received for natural gas from $5.22 per Mcf in
2003 to $6.36 in 2004. Gas production increased from 597,596 Mcf in 2003
to 764,093 Mcf in 2004. Capital expenditures increased from $2,866,910 in
2003 to $11,290,421 in 2004 primarily due to costs associated with drilling the
new C-20 and C-21 wells in the first quarter. Operating expenses
increased from $493,984 in 2003 to $1,560,278 in 2004 due to an increase in
production volumes as well as the October 2003 facility charge that was
not allocated in the fourth quarter of 2003.  

  Chevron has advised the
Trust that the foregoing comparison does not give effect to an improper credit
of revenues and production and a miscalculation of capital expenditures that
was allocated during the first quarter of 2004 and recovered by Chevron during
that period and in the second quarter. The aggregate amount of these
adjustments for improper credits of production and revenues from as early as June 2002
through October 2003 were approximately 236,650 barrels of oil or
$6,449,000 for oil revenues, as well as 91,000 Mcf or $505,000 for gas
revenues. The comparison above is included without adjustment as Royalty income
for these periods was calculated and paid based on these amounts.  

   Ship Shoal 182/183   

  Ship Shoal 182/183
crude oil revenues decreased from $18,011,043 in 2003 to $15,408,655 in 2004,
due to a decrease in crude oil production from 614,412 barrels in 2003 to
426,449 barrels in 2004. The average crude oil price increased from $29.31 per
barrel in 2003 to $36.13 per barrel in 2004. Gas revenues increased from
$1,720,257 in 2003 to $11,179,380 in 2004 due to an increase in gas volumes
from 319,431 Mcf in 2003 to 1,872,307 Mcf in 2004. Additionally, the
average natural gas sales price increased from $5.53 per Mcf in 2003 to $6.05
in 2004. Capital expenditures increased from $5,206,517 in 2003 to $10,292,460
in 2004 due to drilling costs on the F-3 well in the first quarter of
2004. Operating expenses increased from $1,233,467 in 2003 to $2,565,505 in
2004 due to higher allocated volumetric charges.  

   West Cameron 643   

  West Cameron 643 gas
revenues decreased from $3,047,851 in 2003 to $1,100,793 in 2004 due primarily
to a decrease in gas volumes from 543,552 Mcf in 2003 to 193,978 Mcf in 2004.
The average natural gas sales price increased from $5.61 per Mcf in 2003 to
$5.67 per Mcf in 2004. Operating expenses   

41     

decreased
from $634,994 in 2003 to $592,357 in 2004, capital expenditures decreased from
$1,077,578 in 2003 to $19,680 in 2004.  

   East Cameron
371/381   

  East Cameron 371/381 gas revenues decreased from
$170,419 in 2003 to $119,196 in 2004 due primarily to a decrease in gas volumes
from 38,654 Mcf in 2003 to 24,665 Mcf in 2004 offset by an increase
in the average price for natural gas during 2004. Crude oil revenues decreased
from $72,174 in 2003 to $36,215 in 2004 due primarily to a decrease in crude
oil and condensate volumes. Capital expenditures decreased from $6,136 in 2003
to $1,497 in 2004 and operating expenses increased from $34,478 in 2003 to
$58,638 in 2004.  

  The
following schedule provides a summary of the volumes and weighted average
prices for crude oil and condensate and natural gas recorded by the Working
Interest Owners for the Royalty Properties, as well as the Working Interest
Owners  calculations of the net proceeds and royalties paid to the Trust during
the periods indicated. Net proceeds due to the Trust are calculated for each
three month period commencing on the first day of February, May, August and
November.  

(1)             Amounts represent actual
production for the twelve-month period ended on October 31 of each year,
respectively. 

  (2)             Undistributed
net loss represents negative Net Proceeds generated during the respective
period. An undistributed net loss is carried forward and offset, in future
periods, by positive Net Proceeds, earned by the related Working Interest
Owner(s). Undistributed net income represents positive Net Proceeds, generated
during the respective period, that were applied to an existing loss
carryforward. As of December 31, 2005, the loss carryforward was $0. 

     Item 7A.                      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk   

  Reference is made to
Item 1 of this Form 10-K.  

     Item 8.                              Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

42  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM   

  To the Trustees and Unit Holders of TEL Offshore
Trust:  

  We have audited the accompanying statements of assets,
liabilities and trust corpus of TEL Offshore Trust (the  Trust ) as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, and the related statements of distributable income and changes
in trust corpus for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2005. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Trustees. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. The Trust is not required to have, nor were we engaged to
perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit
included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis
for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Trust s
internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such
opinion  .   An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by the Trustees, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  As described in Note 3 to the financial statements,
these financial statements were prepared on a comprehensive basis of accounting
other than accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.  

  In our opinion, such
financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the assets,
liabilities and trust corpus of TEL Offshore Trust as of December 31, 2005
and 2004, and its distributable income and changes in trust corpus for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, on the
comprehensive basis of accounting described in Note 3.  

   DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Houston, Texas 
March 31, 2006  

43  

TEL OFFSHORE TRUST   

     STATEMENTS
OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND TRUST CORPUS   

STATEMENTS
OF DISTRIBUTABLE INCOME   

STATEMENTS
OF CHANGES IN TRUST CORPUS   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements     44  

TEL OFFSHORE TRUST  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

     (1)       Trust
Organization and Provisions 

  Tenneco Offshore Company, Inc. ( Tenneco Offshore )
created the TEL Offshore Trust ( Trust ) effective January 1, 1983,
pursuant to the Plan of Dissolution ( Plan ) approved by Tenneco Offshore s
stockholders on December 22, 1982. In accordance with the Plan, the TEL
Offshore Trust Partnership ( Partnership ) was formed in which the Trust owns a
99.99% interest and Tenneco Oil Company ( Tenneco ) initially owned a .01%
interest. In general, the Plan was effected by transferring an overriding
royalty interest ( Royalty ) equivalent to a 25% net profits interest in the
oil and gas properties (the  Royalty Properties ) of Tenneco
Exploration, Ltd. ( Exploration I ) located offshore Louisiana to the
Partnership and issuing certificates evidencing units of beneficial interest in
the Trust in liquidation and cancellation of Tenneco Offshore s common stock.  

  On October 31, 1986, Exploration I was dissolved
and the oil and gas properties of Exploration I were distributed to Tenneco
subject to the Royalty. Tenneco, who was then serving as the Managing General
Partner of the Partnership, assumed the obligations of Exploration I, including
its obligations under the Conveyance. The dissolution of Exploration I had no
impact on future cash distributions to holders of units of beneficial
interests.  

  On November 18, 1988, Chevron U.S.A. Inc. ( Chevron )
acquired most of the Gulf of Mexico offshore oil and gas properties of Tenneco,
including all the Royalty Properties. As a result of the acquisition, Chevron
replaced Tenneco as the Working Interest Owner and Managing General Partner of
the Partnership. Chevron also assumed Tenneco s obligations under the
Conveyance.  

  On October 30, 1992, PennzEnergy Company ( PennzEnergy )
(which merged with and into Devon Energy Production Company L.P. effective January 1,
2000) acquired certain oil and gas producing properties from Chevron, including
four of the Royalty Properties. The four Royalty Properties acquired by
PennzEnergy were East Cameron 354, Eugene Island 348, Eugene
Island 367 and Eugene Island 208. As a result of such acquisition,
PennzEnergy replaced Chevron as the Working Interest Owner of these properties
on October 30, 1992. PennzEnergy also assumed Chevron s obligations under
the Conveyance with respect to these properties.  

  On December 1, 1994, Texaco Exploration and
Production Inc. ( TEPI ) acquired two of the Royalty Properties from
Chevron. The Royalty Properties acquired by Texaco were West Cameron 643
and East Cameron 371/381. As a result of such acquisition, TEPI replaced
Chevron as the Working Interest Owner of such properties on December 1,
1994. TEPI also assumed Chevron s obligations under the Conveyance with respect
to these properties.  

  On October 1, 1995, SONAT Exploration Company ( SONAT )
acquired the East Cameron 354 property from PennzEnergy. In addition, on October 1,
1995, Amoco Production Company ( Amoco ) acquired the Eugene Island 367
property from PennzEnergy. As a result of such acquisitions, SONAT and Amoco replaced
PennzEnergy as the Working Interest Owner of the East Cameron 354 and
Eugene Island 367 properties, respectively, on October 1, 1995, and
also assumed PennzEnergy s obligations under the Conveyance with respect to
these properties.  

  Effective January 1, 1998 Energy Resource
Technology, Inc. ( ERT ) acquired the East Cameron 354 property from
SONAT. As a result of this acquisition, ERT replaced SONAT as the Working
Interest Owner of the East Cameron 354 property effective January 1,
1998, and also assumed SONAT s obligations under the Conveyance with respect to
such property. In October 1998, Amerada Hess Corporation ( Amerada )
acquired the East Cameron 354 property from ERT effective January 1,
1998.   

45     

TEL OFFSHORE TRUST  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

As a result of such
acquisition, Amerada replaced ERT as the Working Interest Owner of the East
Cameron 354 property effective January 1, 1998, and also assumed
Energy s obligations under the Conveyance with respect to this property.  

  Effective January 1, 2000, PennzEnergy and Devon
Energy Corporation (Nevada) merged into Devon Energy Production Company L.P. ( Devon ).
As a result of this merger, Devon replaced PennzEnergy as the Working Interest
Owner of Eugene Island 348 and Eugene Island 208 properties effective January 1,
2000, and also assumed PennzEnergy s obligations under the Conveyance with
respect to these properties.  

  On October 9, 2001, a wholly owned subsidiary of
Chevron Corporation, a Delaware corporation, merged (the  Merger ) with and
into Texaco Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Texaco ), pursuant to an
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 15, 2000. As a result of
the Merger, Texaco Inc. became a wholly owned subsidiary of Chevron
Corporation, and Chevron Corporation changed its name to  ChevronTexaco
Corporation  in connection with the Merger (ChevronTexaco Corporation is
referred to herein as  ChevronTexaco ). Accordingly, references herein to
Chevron and Texaco are properties or entities each now controlled by
subsidiaries of ChevronTexaco.  

  On May 1, 2002, TEPI assigned all of its
interests in West Cameron 643 and East Cameron 371/381 to Chevron.
Accordingly, pursuant to the Conveyance of the Royalty Properties, Net Proceeds
will be calculated for the collective Royalty Properties owned by Chevron after
this date.  

  On June 6, 2003 Anadarko Petroleum Corporation ( Anadarko )
acquired, among other interests, a 25% Working Interest in the East Cameron 354
field subject to The Royalty from Amerada effective April 1, 2003. As a
result of this transaction, Anadarko replaced Amerada as the Working Interest
Owner of East Cameron 354 effective July 1, 2003 and also assumed Amerada s
obligations under the Conveyance with respect to this property.  

  Effective October 1, 2004, Apache Corporation
( Apache ) acquired Anadarko s interest in East Cameron 354 and assumed
Anadarko s obligations under the Conveyance with respect to this property.  

  All of the Royalty Properties continue to be subject
to the Royalty, and it is anticipated that the Trust and Partnership, in
general, will continue to operate as if the above-described sales of the
Royalty Properties had not occurred.  

  Unless the context in which such terms are used
indicates otherwise, in these Notes to Financial Statements the terms  Working
Interest Owner  and  Working Interest Owners  generally refer to the owner or
owners of the Royalty Properties (Tenneco Exploration I through October 31,
1986; Tenneco for periods from October 31, 1986 until November 18,
1988; Chevron with respect to all Royalty Properties for periods from November 18,
1988 until October 30, 1992, and with respect to all Royalty Properties
except East Cameron 354, Eugene Island 348, Eugene Island 367
and Eugene Island 208 for periods from October 30, 1992 until December 1,
1994, and with respect to the same properties except West Cameron 643
thereafter; PennzEnergy/Devon with respect to East Cameron 354, Eugene
Island 348, Eugene Island 367 and Eugene/Devon Island 208 for
periods from October 30, 1992 until October 1, 1995, and with respect
to Eugene Island 348 and Eugene Island 208 thereafter; TEPI with
respect to West Cameron 643 and East Cameron 371/381 for periods
beginning on or after December 1, 1994 until May 1, 2002; SONAT with
respect to East Cameron 354 for periods beginning on or after October 1,
1995; and Amoco with respect to Eugene Island 367 for periods beginning on
or after October 1, 1995; Amerada with respect to East Cameron 354
for periods beginning on or after January 1, 1998; Chevron with respect to
West Cameron 643 and East Cameron 371/381 on and after May 1,
2002; Anadarko with respect to East   

46     

TEL OFFSHORE TRUST  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Cameron 354 on and
after July 1, 2003) until October 1, 2004; and Apache with respect to
East Cameron 354 after October 1, 2004.  

  On January 14, 1983, Tenneco Offshore distributed
units of beneficial interest ( Units ) in the Trust to holders of Tenneco
Offshore s common stock on the basis of one Unit for each common share owned on
such date.  

  The terms of the
Trust Agreement, dated January 1, 1983, provide, among other things, that:  

  (a)    the Trust
is a passive entity and cannot engage in any business or investment activity or
purchase any assets;  

  (b)   the
interest in the Partnership can be sold in part or in total for cash upon
approval of a majority of the Unit holders;  

  (c)    the
Trustees, as defined below, can establish cash reserves and borrow funds to pay
liabilities of the Trust and can pledge the assets of the Trust to secure
payments of the borrowings. At December 31, 2005 the reserve amount was
$1,364,203. During the first and second quarters of 2004, the Trust used
$148,798 and $56,333, respectively, from the Trust s cash reserve account to
pay the Trust s general and administrative expenses, when insufficient Royalty
income was received by the Trust. At December 31, 2004 the reserve amount
was $1,341,014 .  

  (d)   the
Trustees will make cash distributions to the Unit holders in January, April, July and
October of each year as discussed in Note  and  

  (e)    the Trust
will terminate upon the first to occur of the following events: (i) total
future net revenues attributable to the Partnership s interest in the Royalty,
as determined by independent petroleum engineers, as of the end of any year,
are less than $2.0 million or (ii) a decision to terminate the Trust
by the affirmative vote of Unit holders representing a majority of the Units.
Future net revenues attributable to the Royalty were estimated at
$48 million (unaudited) as of October 31, 2005. Upon termination of
the Trust, the Corporate Trustee will sell for cash all assets held in the
Trust estate and make a final distribution to the Unit holders of any funds
remaining, after all Trust liabilities have been satisfied.  

  The Trust is currently administered
by JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank) ( Corporate
Trustee ) and Daniel O. Conwill, IV, Gary C. Evans and
Jeffrey S. Swanson ( Individual Trustees ), as trustees ( Trustees ).  

     (2)   Net Overriding Royalty Interest   

  The Royalty entitles the Trust to its share (99.99%)
of 25% of the Net Proceeds attributable to the Royalty Properties. The
Conveyance, dated January 1, 1983, provides that the Working Interest
Owners will calculate, for each period of three months commencing the first day
of February, May, August and November, an amount equal to 25% of the Net
Proceeds from their oil and gas properties for the period. Generally,  Net
Proceeds  means the amounts received by the Working Interest Owners from the
sale of minerals from the Royalty Properties less operating and capital costs
incurred, management fees and expense reimbursements owing to the Managing
General Partner of the Partnership, applicable taxes other than income taxes,
and the Special Cost Escrow account. The Special Cost Escrow account is
established for the future costs to be incurred to plug and abandon wells,
dismantle and remove platforms, pipelines and other production facilities, and
for the estimated amount of future capital expenditures on the Royalty   

47     

TEL OFFSHORE TRUST  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Properties. Net proceeds
do not include amounts received by the Working Interest Owners as advance gas
payments,  take-or-pay  payments or similar payments unless and until such
payments are extinguished or repaid through the future delivery of gas.  

  As of October 9, 2001, Chevron Corporation merged
with Texaco, and the Royalty Properties owned by TEPI were assigned to Chevron
on May 1, 2002. Crude oil sales from the Chevron and TEPI properties added
together accounted for approximately 99%, for 2005, 2004 and 2003 of crude oil
revenues from the Royalty Properties. Sales to ChevronTexaco accounted for
approximately 99%, 94% and 93% of total gas revenues from the Royalty
Properties during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

  The Trust s share of
Royalty income was reduced by approximately $418,000, $496,000 and $417,000 in
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, for management fees paid to the Working
Interest Owners as reimbursement for expenses incurred by them on behalf of the
Trust. Such management fees were calculated as 3% of the Trust s share of the
sum of revenues, production expenses and capital expenditures attributable to
the Royalty Properties in each of the three years above.  

     (3)   Basis of Accounting   

  The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on
the following basis:  

  (a)             Royalty income is
recorded when received, including the effect of overtaken or undertaken
positions and negative or positive adjustments, by the Corporate Trustee on the
last business day of each calendar quarter. In addition, Royalty Income
includes amounts related to funds deposited or released from the Special Cost
Escrow account see (c); 

  (b)            Trust general and
administrative expenses are recorded when paid, except for the cash reserved
for future general and administrative expenses; and 

  (c)             The funds deposited or
released from the Special Cost Escrow account are recorded at the time of
payment or receipt. The Special Cost Escrow account is an account of the
Working Interest Owners and is not reflected in the financial statements of the
Trust. 

  This manner of reporting income and expenses is considered
to be the most meaningful because the quarterly distributions to Unit holders
are based on net cash receipts received from the Working Interest Owners. The
financial statements of the Trust differ from financial statements prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because, under such
principles, Royalty income and Trust general and administrative expenses for a
quarter would be recognized on an accrual basis. In addition, amortization of
the net overriding royalty interest, calculated on a units-of-production basis,
is charged directly to Trust corpus since such amount does not affect
distributable income.  

  Cash and cash equivalents include all highly liquid
short-term investments with original maturities of three months or less.  

  The changes in reserve for future Trust expenses
includes both changes of amounts deemed necessary by the Trustees and related
distributions, as well as amounts paid from the reserve during periods when the
Trust has insufficient income to pay Trust expenses.  

  The Trust reviews net overriding royalty interest in
oil and gas properties for possible impairment whenever events or circumstances
indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If there is
an indication of impairment, the Trust prepares an estimate of future cash
flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) expected to result from the
use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If   

48     

TEL OFFSHORE TRUST  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

these cash flows are less
than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized to
write down the asset to its estimated fair value. Preparation of estimated
expected future cash flows is inherently subjective and is based on the
Corporate Trustee s best estimate (based on advice and information provided by
the Managing General Partner and working interest owners) of assumptions
concerning expected future conditions. There were no write downs taken in the
periods presented.  

  The Special Cost Escrow account (see Note 6) is
established for future costs to be incurred to plug and abandon wells,
dismantle and remove platforms, pipelines and other production facilities, and
for the estimated amount of future capital expenditures on the Royalty
Properties. The funds held in the Special Cost Escrow account are not reflected
in the financial statements of the Trust. However, funds deposited to or
released from the Special Cost Escrow account are included in Royalty income.  

  The preparation of financial statements requires the
Trustees to make use of estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported
in the financial statements as well as certain disclosures. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.  

  The amount of cash
distributions by the Trust is dependent on, among other things, the sales
prices for oil and gas produced from the Royalty Properties and the quantities
of oil and gas sold. It should be noted that substantial uncertainties exist
with regard to future oil and gas prices, which are subject to material
fluctuations due to changes in production levels and pricing and other actions
taken by major petroleum producing nations, as well as the regional supply and
demand for gas, weather, industrial growth, conservation measures, competition
and other variables. The Trust does not enter into any hedging transactions on
future production.  

     (4)   Distributions to Unit Holders   

  In accordance with the provisions of the Trust
Agreement, generally all Net Proceeds received by the Trust, net of Trust
general and administrative expenses and any cash reserves established for the
payment of contingent or future obligations of the Trust, are distributed
currently to the Unit holders. These distributions are referred to as  distributable
income . The amounts distributed are determined on a quarterly basis and are
payable to Unit holders of record as of the last business day of each calendar
quarter. However, cash distributions are made in January, April, July and October and
include interest earned from the quarterly record date to the date of
distribution.  

  During the quarter ended March 31, 2004, a
Working Interest Owner made certain negative adjustments to previously reported
Net Proceeds (See Note 5). As a result of these negative adjustments, the
Trust at March 31, 2004 had a loss carryforward of $3,307,628. In the
second quarter of 2004, Net Proceeds were offset by the loss carryforward of
$3,307,628 with a resulting loss carryforward balance of $0 at June 30, 2004.
No distributable income was available to Unit holders in the second quarter
since the Trust recoups expenses being paid from the reserve for Trust expense
that the Trustees have established for anticipated future expenses. During the
quarter ended September 30, 2004, the Trust resumed distributions as the
reserve for trust expenses had been funded.  

  Gulf Coast hurricanes
caused significant damage during 2005. Even if platforms and facilities on the
Royalty Properties are restored in a timely manner during 2006, delays in
repairs on third-party transportation systems may continue to limit production
and Royalty income from the Royalty Properties.  

49  

TEL OFFSHORE TRUST  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   (5)       Negative
Adjustments 

  During the quarter
ended March 31, 2004, a Working Interest Owner informed the Trust that it
had made errors in prior periods which resulted in prior period Net Proceeds
being overstated. This Working Interest Owner, Chevron, which is also the
Managing General Partner, of the Partnership, has advised the Trust that these
errors consisted of:  

             Eugene
Island 339 a $6,953,982 gross revenue adjustment to reverse revenues previously
credited to the Trust for interest in wells that the Trust does not hold an
interest, a $98,797 gross operating expense adjustment and a $573,382
adjustment to increase previous capital expenditures. 

             Ship
Shoal 182/183 a $1,336,287 gross adjustment to reverse revenues previously
credited to the Trust primarily for double-counted production and a $1,855,976
adjustment to correct previously recorded adjustments to capital expenditures. 

             South
Timbalier 36/37 (Royalty Properties associated with Chevron Texaco) a $495,425
gross adjustment to reverse the effects of clerical errors. 

  The Trust recorded the
adjustments during the first quarter of 2004, which resulted in a loss
carryforward of $3,307,628 as of March 31, 2004. In the second quarter of
2004, Net Proceeds were sufficient to fully offset the loss carryforward of
$3,307,628, resulting in no further loss carryforward.  

     (6)   Special Cost Escrow Account   

  The Special Cost Escrow is an account of the Working
Interest Owners and it is described herein for informational purposes only. The
Conveyance provides for reserving funds for estimated future  Special Costs  of
plugging and abandoning wells, dismantling platforms and other costs of
abandoning the Royalty Properties, as well as for the estimated amount of
future drilling projects and other capital expenditures on the Royalty
Properties. As provided in the Conveyance, the amount of funds to be reserved
is determined based on certain factors, including estimates of aggregate future
production costs, aggregate future Special Costs, aggregate future net revenues
and actual current net proceeds. Deposits into this account reduce current
distributions and are placed in an escrow account and invested in short-term
certificates of deposit. Such account is herein referred to as the  Special
Cost Escrow  account The Trust s share of interest generated from the Special
Cost Escrow account, approximately $115,520, $66,700 and $56,000 for 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively, serves to reduce the Trust s share of allocated
production costs. As of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, approximately
$5,616,000, $5,376,000 and $8,573,000 respectively, remained in the Special
Cost Escrow account. Special Cost Escrow account funds will generally be
utilized to pay Special Costs to the extent there are not adequate current net proceeds
to pay such costs. Special Costs that have been paid are no longer included in
the Special Cost Escrow account calculation. Deposits to the Special Cost
Escrow account will generally be made when the balance in the Special Cost Escrow
account is less than 125% of estimated future Special Costs and there is a Net
Revenues Shortfall (a calculation of the excess of estimated future costs over
estimated future net revenues pursuant to a formula contained in the
Conveyance). When there is not a Net Revenues Shortfall, amounts in the Special
Cost Escrow account will generally be released, to the extent that Special
Costs have been incurred. Amounts in the Special Cost Escrow account will also
be released when the balance in such account exceeds 125% of future Special
Costs.  

  The discussion of the terms of the Conveyance and
Special Cost Escrow Account contained herein is qualified in its entirety by
reference to the Conveyance.  

50     

TEL OFFSHORE TRUST  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

In the first quarter of
2006, there was a net deposit of funds to the Special Cost Escrow Account of
approximately $876,000. Deposits to the Special Cost Escrow Account may be
required in future periods in connection with other production costs, other
abandonment costs, other capital expenditures and changes in the estimates and
factors described above. Such deposits could result in a significant reduction
in Royalty income in the periods in which such deposits are made.  

  In 2005, the Working
Interest Owners deposited a net amount of approximately $239,000 into the
Special Cost Escrow Account. In 2004, the Working Interest Owners released a
net amount of approximately $3,268,000 into the Special Cost Escrow Account.
The deposit and releases were made primarily due to changes in the estimate of
projected capital expenditures, production costs and abandonment costs of the
Royalty Properties.  

     (7)   Federal
Income Tax Matters   

  The IRS has ruled that the
Trust is a grantor trust and that the Partnership is a partnership for federal
income tax purposes. Thus, the Trust will incur no federal income tax liability
and each Unit holder will be treated as owning an interest in the Partnership.  

     (8)   Commitments
and Contingencies   

  During 1994, the Working
Interest Owner on the Eugene Island 348 property settled a gas imbalance on
that property for approximately $2,696,000. The Trust s share of this
settlement amount was approximately $674,000. The balance of this amount was
recovered from the Trust by the Working Interest Owner during 2003.  

  The Working Interest Owners
have advised the Trust that, although they believe that they are in general
compliance with applicable health, safety and environmental laws and
regulations that have taken effect at the federal, state and local levels,
costs may be incurred to comply with current and proposed environmental
legislation which could result in increased operating expenses on the Royalty
Properties.  

  On September 21,
2001, the Trust gave written demand to, and on October 11, 2001, the Trust
filed suit against TEPI as the then-current Working Interest Owner of the East
Cameron 371 lease to account for its payment of the Trust s overriding royalty
interest in this lease. In connection with the foregoing litigation, TEPI had
asserted a counterclaim in 2003. During 2003, the Trust entered into a
Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release with TEPI pursuant to which TEPI agreed
to pay the Trust $75,000. Both of the parties filed a joint motion to dismiss
all claims and counterclaims relating to the lawsuit and each party released the
other party from all claims and counterclaims relating to the lawsuit.  

     (9)   Supplemental
Reserve Information (Unaudited)   

  Estimates of the proved
oil and gas reserves attributable to the Partnership s royalty interest are
based on a report prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum
engineering consultants. Estimates were prepared in accordance with guidelines
established by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial
Accounting Standards Board. Accordingly, the estimates are based on existing
economic and operating conditions in effect at October 31, 2005, with no
provision for future increases or decreases except for periodic price
redeterminations in accordance with existing gas contracts.  

  The reserve volumes and revenue values attributable to
the Partnership s royalty interest were estimated from projections of reserves
and revenue attributable to the combined interests consisting of the
Partnership s royalty interest and the retained interest of the Working
Interest Owners in the Royalty   

51     

TEL OFFSHORE TRUST  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Properties. Net reserves
attributable to the Partnership s royalty interest were estimated by allocating
to the Partnership a portion of the estimated combined net reserves of the
subject properties based on the ratio of the Partnership s interest in future
net revenues to combined future gross revenues. Because the net reserve volumes
attributable to the Partnership s royalty interest are estimated using an
allocation of reserves based on estimates of future revenue, a change in prices
or costs will result in changes in the estimated net reserves. Therefore, the
estimated net reserves attributable to the Partnership s royalty interest will
vary if different future price and cost assumptions are used. All reserves
attributable to the Partnership s royalty interest are located in the United
States. Total future net revenues attributable to the Partnership s interest in
the Royalty were estimated at $48.0 million as of October 31, 2005
based on the reserve study of Degolyer and MacNaughton.  

  The Partnership s share of gas sales can be recorded
by the Working Interest Owner on the cash method of accounting or based on
actual production. When revenues are reported based on actual production, there
is no gas imbalance created. Under the cash method, revenues are recorded based
on actual gas volumes sold, which could be more or less than the volumes the
Working Interest Owners are entitled to based on their ownership interests. The
Partnership s Royalty income for a period reflects the actual gas sold during
the period. The Working Interest Owners of the East Cameron 371/381 property
advised the Trust that, as of October 31, 2004, 26,891 Mcf had been
overtaken by the Working Interest Owners from this property. In addition, the
Working Interest Owners of the East Cameron 353 and West Cameron 643
properties advised the Trust that, as of October 31, 2004, 518 Mcf
and 23,340 Mcf respectively, had been undertaken by the Working Interest
Owners from these properties. The Partnership s share of revenues related to the
overtaken gas was included in the Partnership s Royalty income in the periods
during which the gas was sold. During 2005, all cumulative gas imbalances with
the Trust were settled with the Working Interest Owner.  

  Distributable income for
the Partnership for the periods ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
included net proceeds relating to production of reserves from the Royalty
Properties for the twelve months ended October 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.  

     (10)   Selected
Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)   

  Summarized
quarterly financial data is as follows:  

*                       Royalty income
and distributable income were decreased or increased in certain quarters due to
deposits to or releases from the Special Cost Escrow Account as discussed in
Note 6 above. 

  *****  

52  

Item 9.                              Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.   

  None.  

     Item 9A.                      Controls and Procedures.   

    Evaluation
of disclosure controls and procedures.      The
Corporate Trustee maintains disclosure controls and procedures designed to
ensure that information to be disclosed by the Trust in the reports that it
files or submits under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
SEC s rules and regulations. Disclosure controls and procedures include
controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by the Trust is accumulated and communicated by Chevron as the
managing general partner of the Partnership, and the working interest owners to
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Corporate Trustee of the Trust, and its employees
who participate in the preparation of the Trust s periodic reports as
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 

  As of the end of the period covered by this report,
the Corporate Trustee carried out an evaluation of the Trust s disclosure
controls and procedures. Mike Ulrich, as Trust Officer and Corporate Trustee,
has concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures of the Trust are
effective.  

  Due to the contractual arrangements of (i) the
Trust Agreement, (ii) the Partnership Agreement and (iii) the rights
of the Partnership under the Conveyance regarding information furnished by the
working interest owners, the Trustees rely on (A) information provided by
the Working Interest Owners, including historical operating data, plans for
future operating and capital expenditures, reserve information and information
relating to projected production, (B) information from the managing
general partner of the Partnership, including information that is collected
from the Working Interest Owners, and (C) conclusions and reports
regarding reserves by the Trust s independent reserve engineers. See Item 1A.
Risk Factors   None of the Trustees, the Trust nor its Unit holders control the
operation or development of the Royalty Properties and have little influence
over operation or development  in the Trust s Form 10-K, and  Note 5 Negative
Adjustments  of the financial statements and  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operating  relating to operating
information on East Cameron 371/381 included in this Form 10-K, for a
decription of certain risks relating to these arrangements and reliance and
applicable adjustments to operating information when reported by the Working
Interest Owners to the Corporate Trustee and recorded in the Trust s results of
operation.  

    Changes in Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting.          During the year ended December 31, 2005,
there has been no change in the Corporate Trustee s internal control over
financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Corporate Trustee s internal control over financial
reporting relating to the Trust. The Corporate Trustee notes for purposes of
clarification that it has no authority over, and makes no statement concerning,
the internal control over financial reporting of the Working Interest Owners or
the managing general partner of the Partnership. 

     PART III   

     Item 10.                       Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.   

  There are no directors or executive officers of the
Registrant. The Trustees consist of a Corporate Trustee and three Individual
Trustees. JPMorgan Chase Bank serves as the Corporate Trustee, and Daniel O.
Conwill, IV, Gary C. Evans and Jeffrey S. Swanson serve as the three
Individual Trustees. Any Trustee may be removed by the affirmative vote of two
Individual Trustees or by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Units at a
meeting of Unit holders of beneficial interest in the Trust at which a quorum
is present.  

53     

The Trust does not have a principle executive officer,
principle financial officer, principle accounting officer or controller and,
therefore, has not adopted a code of ethics applicable to such persons.
However, employees of the Trustee must comply with the bank s code of ethics.  

  The Trust does not have a
board of directors, and therefore does not have an audit committee, an audit
committee financial expert, or a nominating committee.  

     Item 11.                       Executive Compensation.   

  Not applicable.  

    Item 12.                        Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.   

   (a)       Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners. 

  None.  

   (b)       Security
Ownership of Management. 

  Not applicable.  

   (c)       Changes
in Control. 

  Registrant knows of no
arrangements, including the pledge of securities of the Registrant, the
operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of
the Registrant.  

     Item 13.                       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.   

  Each of the Working Interest Owners owns interests,
for its own account, in leases which are in the same area as leases in which
the Partnership has acquired or may acquire an interest. Such relationships may
give rise to potential conflicts of interests in, among other things, the
operation of such leases and in the acquisition and operation of any drainage
leases acquired by a Working Interest Owner for its own account. Additionally,
the Working Interest Owners and their affiliates are not prohibited from
purchasing oil and gas produced from or attributable to any leases in which the
Partnership has an interest. Prior to the sale to Chevron, Tenneco also owned
interests, for its own account, in leases in the same area as leases in which
the Partnership has an interest.  

  Crude oil sales to ChevronTexaco accounted for approximately
99% of total crude oil revenues from the Royalty Properties during 2005 and
2004.  

  The Trust s share of Royalty income was reduced by
approximately $418,000 in 2005 for management fees paid to the Working Interest
Owners as reimbursement for expenses incurred by them on behalf of the Trust.
The aggregate amount of management fees paid to the Working Interest Owners was
calculated as 3% of the Trust s share of the sum of revenues, production
expenses and capital expenditures attributable to the Royalty Properties in
2005.  

  Effective August 31, 1996, Chevron
U.S.A. Inc. s Natural Gas Business Unit and Warren Petroleum Company
merged with Dynegy (formerly named NGC Corporation). As of February 28,
2002, Chevron Texaco  owned approximately 26% of the voting stock of
Dynegy and Chevron was obligated to sell substantially all of its natural gas
produced and owned or controlled by it in the lower 48 states to Dynegy. In January 2003,
Chevron terminated all of its natural gas contracts with Dynegy. In April 2003,
ChevronTexaco formed a new division called  ChevronTexaco Natural Gas  to
market most of its production to various third party purchasers under a mix of
term and spot agreements.  

54     

On October 9, 2001,
the stockholders of Chevron Corporation and Texaco approved the merger of the
two companies to form ChevronTexaco Corporation. ChevronTexaco has advised that
as of May 1, 2002, the oil and gas leases of TEPI on West Cameron 643 and
Ship Shoal 371/381 were assigned to Chevron.  

     PART IV   

     Item
14.                       Principal Accountant Fees and Services.   

  The Trust does not
have an audit committee. Any pre-approval and approval of all services
performed by the principal auditor or any other professional service firms and
related fees are granted by the Trustees.  

  The
following table presents fees for professional audit services rendered by
Deloitte   Touche LLP for the audit of Tel Offshore Trust financial
statements for 2005 and 2004 and fees billed for other services rendered by
Deloitte   Touche LLP.  

Item 15.                       Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

   (a)(1)       Financial
Statements 

  The
following financial statements are set forth under Part II, Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K on the pages as indicated:  

Page in This 
  Form 10-K   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

43  

Statements of Assets,
  Liabilities and Trust Corpus   

44  

Statements of Distributable
  Income   

44  

Statements of Changes in Trust Corpus   

44  

Notes to Financial Statements   

45  

(a)(2)       Schedules 

  Schedules have been
omitted because they are not required, not applicable or the information
required has been included elsewhere herein.  

   (a)(3)       Exhibits 

  (Asterisk indicates
exhibit previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and
incorporated herein by reference, JPMorgan Chase Bank is successor by mergers
to the original name of the Trustee, Texas Commerce Bank National Association).  

55     

56  

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on this 31  st  day of March, 2006. 

TEL OFFSHORE
  TRUST  

By:  

JPMORGAN CHASE
  BANK, Corporate Trustee  

By:  

/s/
  MIKE ULRICH  

Mike Ulrich  

Vice
  President   Trust Officer   

Signature   

Date   

JPMORGAN CHASE
  BANK, Corporate Trustee  

By:  

/s/ MIKE
  ULRICH  

March 31, 2006  

Mike
  Ulrich, Vice President    

Trust
  Officer  

INDIVIDUAL
  TRUSTEES  

/s/ DANIEL O.
  CONWILL, IV  

March 31, 2006  

Daniel
  O. Conwill, IV, Individual Trustee  

/s/ GARY
  C. EVANS  

March 31, 2006  

Gary
  C. Evans, Individual Trustee  

/s/ JEFFREY
  S. SWANSON  

March 31, 2006  

Jeffrey S.
  Swanson, Individual Trustee  

The Registrant, TEL Offshore Trust, has no principal
executive officer, principal financial officer, board of directors or persons
performing similar functions. Accordingly, no additional signatures are
available and none have been provided. In signing the report above, neither the
Corporate Trustee nor the Individual Trustees imply that they perform any such
function or that such function exists pursuant to the terms of the Trust
Agreement under which they serve.  

57  

<EX-31>
 2
 a06-1871_1ex31.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31   

     CERTIFICATION   

  I, Mike Ulrich, certify that:  

  1.     I have
reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of TEL Offshore Trust, for
which JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. acts as Trustee;  

  2.     Based on
my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

  3.     Based on
my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, distributable income and changes in trust corpus of the registrant
as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

  4.     I am
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)),
or for causing such controls and procedures to be established and maintained,
for the registrant and I have:  

  (a)             Designed such disclosure
controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to
be designed under my supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to me
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

  (b)            Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report my conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  (c)             Disclosed in this report
any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth
fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected or
is reasonably likely to materially affect the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

  5.     I have
disclosed, based on my most recent evaluation, to the registrant s auditors:  

  (a)             All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting, which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
information; and 

  (b)            Any fraud, whether or not
material, that involves any persons who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

  In
giving the foregoing certifications in paragraphs 4 and 5, I have relied to the
extent I consider reasonable on information provided to me by the working
interest owners and the managing general partner of the TEL Offshore Trust
Partnership, in which the registrant owns a 99.99% interest.  

Date: March 31, 2006 

/s/ MIKE
  ULRICH  

Mike Ulrich,   

Vice President and Trust
  Officer    

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.   

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 3
 a06-1871_1ex32.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32   

  March 31, 2006  

  Via EDGAR  

  Securities and Exchange Commission 
Judiciary Plaza 
450 Fifth Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20549  

  Re:         Certification pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

  Ladies and Gentlemen:  

  In connection with the Annual Report of TEL Offshore
Trust (the  Trust ) on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof
(the  Report ), the undersigned, not in its individual capacity but solely as
the trustee of the Trust, certifies pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to its
knowledge:  

  (1)            The Report fully complies
with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

  (2)            The information contained
in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the Trust. 

  The
above certification is furnished solely pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. 1350) and is not being filed as part of
the Form 10-K or as a separate disclosure document.  

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK ,
  N.A.  

Trustee for TEL Offshore Trust  

By:  

/s/ MIKE ULRICH  

Mike Ulrich  

Vice President and Trust Officer   

</EX-32>

