<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_901495_0000950144-06-003047_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>606180</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>168665</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1393</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>257382</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>36</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950144-06-003047.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331163620
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950144-06-003047
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BACK YARD BURGERS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000901495
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-EATING PLACES [5812]
		IRS NUMBER:				640737163
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0102

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-12104
		FILM NUMBER:		06729410

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1657 NORTH SHELBY OAKS DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 105
		CITY:			MEMPHIS
		STATE:			TN
		ZIP:			38134
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9013670888

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1657 NORTH SHELBY OAKS DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 105
		CITY:			MEMPHIS
		STATE:			TN
		ZIP:			38134

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GPUIemxu7w2qjqBU/zsxVsjEic/tMXp+h8PLiQM6jRyY567OUiqWcKelE5e+TSWN
 2FZNP7JyciuPSYUOapWTcA==

 0000950144-06-003047.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 g00597e10vk.htm
 BACK YARD BURGERS, INC. - FORM 10-K

BACK YARD BURGERS, INC. - FORM 10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

(Mark One)

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 

or 

Commission file number 1-12104 

BACK YARD BURGERS, INC. 

(Name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware  
(State or other jurisdiction of 
incorporation or organization)

64-0737163  
(IRS employer 
identification no.) 

(901) 367-0888  
(Registrant s telephone number)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act : None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act :

Common Stock, $.01 par value

(Title of class)

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act.

Yes    

No     

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

Yes    

No     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes    

No     

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer                Accelerated filer                Non-accelerated filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act).

Yes    

No     

The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates on March 1, 2006 was
approximately $16,191,000.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s common stock as of March 1, 2006 was
4,943,792.

Certain portions of Part II are incorporated by reference from the registrant s annual report
to stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2005 and certain portions of Part III are
incorporated by reference from the registrant s proxy statement relating to the annual meeting of
stockholders to be held on May 18, 2006. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

PART I   
     ITEM 1. BUSINESS   
     ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   
     ITEM 2. PROPERTIES   
     ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
     ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY-HOLDERS   
   PART II   
     ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   
     ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
     ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSITEM   
     7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
     ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
     ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
     ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
     ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION   
   PART III   
     ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   
     ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
     ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
     ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   
     ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   
   PART IV   
     ITEM 15.EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   
   SIGNATURES   
   EX-21 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT   
   EX-23.1 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP   
   EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO   
   EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO   
   EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO   
   EX-32.2 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO   

Table of Contents   

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: This Form 10-K, the documents that we incorporate by reference, and
other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by us and our representatives
contain  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These
statements, which are not statements of historical fact, may contain estimates, assumptions,
projections and/or expectations regarding our financial position, results of operations, growth
strategy and plans for future expansion, product development, economic conditions, and other
similar forecasts and statements of expectation. We generally indicate these statements by words
or phrases such as  anticipate,   estimate,   plan,   expect,   believe,   intend,   foresee,  and
similar words or phrases. Forward-looking statements are based upon estimates, projections,
beliefs and assumptions of management at the time of such statements and should not be viewed as
guarantees of future performance. Such forward-looking information involves important risks and
uncertainties that could significantly impact anticipated results in the future and, accordingly,
such results may differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements by or on
behalf of the Company. The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially, many
of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to, the factors described under Risk
Factors, including the following: delays in opening new stores or outlets because of weather, local
permitting, and the availability and cost of land and construction; increases in competition and
competitive discounting; increases in minimum wage and other operating costs; shortages in raw food
products; volatility of commodity prices; consumer preferences, spending patterns and demographic
trends; the possibility of unforeseen events affecting the industry generally, and other risks
described from time to time in our periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Back Yard Burgers, Inc. disclaims any obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statement based on the occurrence of future events, the receipt of new information,
or otherwise.

PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Back Yard Burgers (the  Company ) operates and franchises quick-service restaurants in 20
states, primarily in markets throughout the Southeast region of the United States. Our restaurants
specialize in charbroiled, freshly prepared, great tasting food. As our name implies, we strive to
offer the same high-quality ingredients and special care typified by outdoor grilling in your own
back yard. Our menu features made-to-order gourmet 100% Black Angus hamburgers and chicken
sandwiches   charbroiled over an open flame, fresh salads, chili and other special entrees as well
as hand-dipped milkshakes, fresh-made lemonade and fresh-baked cobblers. As of December 31, 2005,
our operations included 44 company-operated restaurants and 127 franchised restaurants.

Corporate History 

The Company was incorporated in December, 1986 as Back Yard Burgers, Inc., a Mississippi
corporation, and opened its first restaurant in Cleveland, Mississippi in March 1987. The Company
was reorganized under the laws of the State of Delaware in January 1991. The Company consummated
its initial public offering on July 2, 1993 and its common stock has traded on Nasdaq since that
time.

Operating Strategy 

Our restaurants are designed to project a back yard theme that emphasizes charbroiled, freshly
prepared, great tasting food, including gourmet 100% Black Angus hamburgers, chicken sandwiches and
other gourmet items as customers would prepare in their own back yard. Our operating strategy
includes:

serving premium quality, great tasting food comparable to that of the best
full-service casual dining restaurants; 

utilizing restaurant designs featuring a single drive-thru concept integrated
with an inviting indoor dining area, which projects a uniform image and creates
pleasing curb appeal; 

providing fast and friendly service with emphasis on a positive customer
experience; 

2

Table of Contents   

offering a diverse menu of freshly prepared food items that are competitive
with the everyday prices of the three largest hamburger chains; and 

actively training, supervising and supporting franchised and company-operated
restaurants. 

Growth Strategy 

During 2006, we will continue to focus on opening new company-operated and franchised
restaurants and increasing same-store sales. Our growth strategy is to continue to:

set our restaurants apart from fast-food competition by serving premium fast
food, enhancing the interiors of our dine-in facilities and re-imaging existing
franchise facilities with the Company s new logo and color schemes so that the design
and feel of our restaurants will match the standards set by the quality of the food; 

improve the work flow of existing units to improve productivity and throughput; 

develop additional company-operated restaurants in existing markets and fund such development with cash flow from
operations and additional debt or equity financing where warranted. We expect to open two company-operated restaurants in
2006; 

test new and improved operational technology systems that should enable the
Company and our franchisees to increase sales, control operating costs and build
customer loyalty through innovative technology solutions including: new state of the
art biometric point-of-sale systems, self-serve kiosks, interactive customer ordering,
back office software, enterprise reporting, loyalty programs, point-of-sale hardware
and support. 

both of the new company-operated restaurants will have playgrounds; each
playground centerpiece is a tree house, which the company feels will further enhance
our back yard theme and increase restaurant traffic. These will be the first
company-operated locations with playgrounds. 

develop additional franchised restaurants, primarily within existing markets,
with a committed and experienced group of franchisees. We expect that approximately 25
franchised restaurants will open in 2006. 

continue to develop and improve sales of our breakfast menu with targeted
system-wide availability by 2007. Currently, breakfast is being served at 21 (eleven
of which are company-operated and ten franchised) of our 171 locations. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully read
and consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in our common stock. The
occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows. 

Our ability to open and operate new restaurants is subject to factors beyond our control. 

Our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to
timely and efficiently open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis.
Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could materially and adversely affect our planned
growth. The success of our planned expansion will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are
beyond our control, including the following:

our ability to identify, and secure an adequate supply of, available and suitable restaurant sites; 

availability and retention of qualified operating personnel; 

increases in minimum wage and other operating costs cost; 

shortages in raw food products and volatility of commodity prices; 

3

Table of Contents   

consumer preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends; 

securing required governmental approvals and permits; 

competition in our markets and competitive discounting; 

availability of capital; and 

the possibility of unforeseen events affecting our industry generally and in the
Southeastern region of the United States in particular. 

The locations of our Company-owned and franchised restaurants are critical to our success. 

Our
success is dependent on our ability to identify and secure suitable
locations for our
Company-owned and franchised restaurants. Factors we typically review in considering any potential
restaurant locations include traffic count, speed of traffic, convenient access, size and
configuration, demographics and density of population, visibility and cost, as well as potential
competition and sales and traffic counts of national and regional chain restaurants operating in
the area. The sales performance and guest counts for our restaurants may be adversely affected in
the event one or more of our competitors opens new restaurants in close proximity to our locations.

Our business is dependent on the availability and retention of qualified operating personnel. 

Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient
number of qualified managerial and other employees. Qualified individuals needed to fill these
positions are in short supply in some areas. The inability to recruit and retain these individuals
may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in high employee turnover in existing
restaurants, which could harm our business. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could
require us to pay higher wages to attract sufficient employees, which could result in higher labor
costs. Most of our employees are paid on an hourly basis. These employees are paid in accordance
with applicable minimum wage regulations. Accordingly, any increase in the minimum wage, whether
state or federal, could have a material adverse impact on our business.

Our operations are susceptible to the cost of and changes in food availability. 

Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food
costs. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, governmental
regulation, production, availability, recalls of food products and seasonality may affect our food
costs or cause a disruption in our supply chain. Beef and chicken represent a significant portion
of our food purchases. Changes in the price or availability of chicken or beef could materially
adversely affect our profitability. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and
react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure
to do so could adversely affect our operating results.

Changes in consumer preferences could negatively impact our results of operations. 

Our menu features made-to-order gourmet 100% Black Angus hamburgers and chicken sandwiches,
fresh salads, chili and other special entrees as well as hand-dipped milkshakes, fresh-made
lemonade and fresh-baked cobbler. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of
these foods in the quick serve restaurant market. The fast food industry is characterized by the
frequent introduction of new products, accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns. In recent
years, numerous companies in the fast food industry have introduced products positioned to
capitalize on growing consumer preference for food products which are upscale and are, or are
perceived to be, healthful, nutritious, low in calories and low in fat content. Our success will
depend in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences, tastes
and eating and purchasing habits, as well as other factors affecting the food service industry,
including new market entrants and demographic changes.

Health concerns relating to the consumption of beef or chicken could negatively impact our results
of operations. 

Like other restaurant chains, consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about
the avian influenza, also known as bird flu, or the consumption of beef, or negative publicity
concerning food quality, illness and injury generally, such as negative publicity concerning E.
coli,  mad cow  or  foot-and-mouth  disease or the publication of government or industry findings
concerning food products served by us. This negative publicity may

4

Table of Contents   

adversely affect
demand for our food and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants.

We are subject to government regulation that may adversely hinder or impact the growth of our
business. 

We are subject to Federal Trade Commission regulation and several state laws which regulate
the offer and sale of franchises. The Company is also subject to state laws that regulate
substantive aspects of the franchisor   franchisee relationship. The FTC s Trade Regulation Rule
on Franchising requires the Company to furnish to prospective franchisees a franchise offering
circular containing information prescribed by the rule. State laws that regulate the offer and
sale of franchises and the franchisor   franchisee relationship presently exist in a substantial
number of states.

Each company-operated and franchised restaurant is subject to licensing and regulation by a
number of governmental authorities, which may include health, sanitation, safety, fire, building
and other agencies in the state or municipality in which the restaurant is located. Difficulties
in obtaining or failure to obtain the required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the
development of a new restaurant in a particular area. The Company is also subject to federal and
state environmental regulations. More stringent and varied requirements of local governmental
bodies with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent the
development of a new restaurant in a particular area.

State and federal labor laws that govern the relationship with employees of our company-owned
and franchised restaurants, such as minimum wage requirements, overtime and working conditions and
citizenship requirements. Significant numbers of the food service and preparation personnel at our
restaurants are paid at rates governed by the federal minimum wage. Accordingly, further increases
in the minimum wage would increase our labor costs and may have an adverse effect on the Company s
operating margins.

Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the quick service restaurant industry. 

The restaurant industry, particularly the fast food segment, is highly competitive with
respect to price, service, food quality and location. We compete with numerous well-established
competitors possessing substantial financial, marketing, personnel and other resources. In
addition, we compete with national, regional and local fast food chains, many of which specialize
in or offer quick serve hamburger and chicken products. We also expect to face competition from a
broad range of other restaurants and food service establishments. Many of the Company s
competitors have achieved significant national, regional and local brand name and product
recognition and engage in extensive advertising and promotional programs, both generally and in
response to efforts by additional competitors to enter new markets or introduce new products.

We compete primarily based on the quality of our food and guest service, rather than price.
We implemented menu price increases of approximately 2% effective in June 2004 and October 2004 in
order to partially offset increased costs of beef and other operating expenses. Although we have
not experienced significant consumer resistance to our past price increases, we cannot provide
assurance that these or other future price increases will not deter guests from visiting our
restaurants in favor of lower-price competitors.

If our franchisees cannot develop new restaurants, our growth and success may be impeded. 

Our ability to grow is dependent on the development of franchised restaurants pursuant to
existing area development agreements and franchise agreements, as well as the pursuit of additional
franchised restaurants pursuant to new area development agreements and franchise agreements. Under
our current form of area development agreement, franchisees must develop a predetermined number of
restaurants in their area according to a schedule that lasts for the term of their development
agreement. The Company may revoke an area development agreement of any franchisee that is
unsuccessful in meeting its projected development schedule. The Company anticipates the
termination of at least six area development agreements, which relate to the development of up to
66 stores, during 2006 due to lack of required development under the agreements.

Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to our unfamiliarity with the area. 

Some of our new restaurants will be located in areas where we have little or no meaningful
experience and where there is the lack of market awareness of the
Back Yard Burgers   brand. Those
markets may have competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns that
are different from our existing markets, which may cause our new restaurants to be less successful
than restaurants in our existing markets.

5

Table of Contents   

The acquisition of existing restaurants from our franchisees may have an adverse impact on our
operating results or financial condition. 

We may seek to selectively acquire existing restaurants from our franchisees who are seeking
an exit strategy. To do so, we would need to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate
acceptable acquisition terms and obtain appropriate financing. Future acquisitions of existing
restaurants from our franchisees could result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities and
impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our restaurants are located primarily in the Southeast region of the United States and, as a
result, we are sensitive to economic and other trends and developments in this region. 

As of December 31, 2005, our operations included 44 company-operated restaurants and 127
franchised restaurants in the Southeast region of the United States, primarily in the states of
Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, Missouri and Tennessee. As a result, we are
particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in this region, including its
labor market. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of
our restaurants in the Southeastern United States could have a material adverse effect on our
business and operations, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, energy
shortages or increases in energy prices, droughts, earthquakes, fires or other natural disasters.

Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. 

Franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees. We provide training and
support to franchisees; however, franchisees operate their restaurants as independent businesses.
Consequently, the quality of franchised restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of
factors beyond our control. Moreover, franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a
manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers
and other restaurant personnel. Our image and reputation, and the image and reputation of other
franchisees, may suffer materially and system-wide sales could significantly decline if our
franchisees do not operate successfully.

If we are not able to transition the role of CEO to a qualified person, our business could suffer. 

Our growth in the past has depended on the services and performance of Lattimore M. Michael,
our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. We recently announced that we would separate the roles
of Chairman and CEO and that, upon retaining an individual to serve as President and CEO of the
Company, Mr. Michael would resign from his position as CEO. Our future performance will depend on
our ability to recruit and retain an individual to serve as President and CEO of the Company.
Competition for qualified executives is intense. The inability to attract additional qualified
personnel as needed could materially harm our business.

Our future success depends on our ability to protect our proprietary information. 

Our business prospects will depend in part on our ability to develop favorable consumer
recognition of the Back Yard Burgers   name and logo. Although
Back Yard Burgers   and the kettle
and flame logo are federally registered trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark
Office, our trademarks could be infringed in ways that leave us without redress.

A significant increase in litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial condition and business prospects. 

As a member of the restaurant industry, we are sometimes the subject of complaints or
litigation from guests alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational
concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations could harm our restaurants, regardless
of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are subject to the same risks of
adverse publicity resulting from these sorts of allegations even if the claim involves one of our
franchisees.

6

Table of Contents   

Restaurant Operations 

Restaurant Locations   .  The following tables set forth the number of restaurants located in
each market of the Company s system at December 31, 2005.

Company-operated:   

Franchised:   

Number of  

Number of  

Core Markets  
       
      Restaurants  
       
      Core Markets  
       
      Restaurants  

Memphis, TN Area

28 
       
     Kansas City, MO Area 
       
     12 

Little Rock, AR Area

7 
       
     Atlanta, GA Area 
       
     9 

Nashville, TN Area

5 
       
     Birmingham, AL Area 
       
     4 

Gulf Coast, FL Area

4 
       
     Charlotte, NC Area 
       
     4 

Jackson, MS Area 
       
     4 

Knoxville, TN Area 
       
     4 

Hickory, NC Area 
       
     3 

Total

44 
       
     Memphis, TN  Area 
       
     3 

Orlando, FL Area 
       
     3 

Tulsa, OK Area 
       
     3 

Chattanooga, TN Area 
       
     2 

Lexington, KY Area 
       
     2 

Little Rock, AR Area 
       
     2 

Paducah, KY Area 
       
     2 

State College, PA Area 
       
     2 

Tallahassee, FL Area 
       
     2 

Waco, TX Area 
       
     2 

Other Markets    (1)   

Georgia 
       
     8 

Mississippi 
       
     8 

Alabama 
       
     7 

Kentucky 
       
     7 

Missouri 
       
     6 

North Carolina 
       
     5 

Louisiana 
       
     4 

South Carolina 
       
     4 

Arkansas 
       
     2 

Indiana 
       
     2 

Tennessee 
       
     2 

Florida 
       
     1 

Illinois 
       
     1 

Kansas 
       
     1 

Nebraska 
       
     1 

Ohio 
       
     1 

Oklahoma 
       
     1 

Pennsylvania 
       
     1 

Texas 
       
     1 

Virginia 
       
     1 

Total 
       
     127 

(1)  
       
     The  Other Markets  portion of the table reflects the total number of restaurants
located in such markets by state. Other markets for the restaurants range from small towns to
large cities where franchisees have only one restaurant. 

7

Table of Contents   

Restaurant Openings and Closings  . The following table presents an activity summary of the
company-operated and franchised restaurants during the periods presented.

(a)  
       
     As of March 24, 2006, five franchised restaurants opened since December 31, 2005,
one each in Athens, AL, Cherokee, NC, Milledgeville, GA, Denham Springs, LA and Rogers, AR and
one franchised restaurant closed in Kingsport, TN. One Company-operated restaurant in Tupelo,
MS was sold in January 2006 and will continue to be operated as a franchised restaurant, and
one Company-operated restaurant in Memphis, TN was closed and sold in March 2006. 

(b)  
       
      Includes the closing of all 9 co-branded restaurants with Taco Bell. 

Site Selection  . The Company believes that the location of a restaurant is critical to its
success. Management inspects each potential restaurant site prior to final selection of the site.
In evaluating particular sites, the Company considers various criteria including traffic count,
speed of traffic, convenient access, size and configuration, demographics and density of
population, visibility and cost. The Company also reviews potential competition and the sales and
traffic counts of national and regional chain restaurants operating in the area. A majority of
both company-operated and franchised restaurants are located on leased land.

Restaurant Design and Service  . Restaurants with a single drive-thru and indoor dining are
built to Company-approved specifications. There are some existing double drive-thru restaurants
without indoor dining; however, the additional development of this facility type has been
discontinued.

In some circumstances, restaurants may be constructed via the conversion of buildings used
previously by other concepts, including other restaurants. The restaurants range in size from 820
square feet (double drive-through) to 4,000 square feet. The restaurants also include
Company-approved interior and exterior decor, equipment, fixtures, furnishings, signs, parking and
site improvements. The restaurants have a highly visible, distinctive and uniform look that is
intended to appeal to customers of all ages.

Prior to 1994, the Company operated and franchised predominately double drive-thru restaurants
without indoor dining. Since that time, the Company has added a number of indoor dining facilities
to its operations, including the retrofitting of many existing double drive-thru restaurants to
include indoor dining. At December 31, 2005, the number of restaurants with indoor dining was 36
company-operated facilities and 118 franchised facilities.

8

Table of Contents   

It is the Company s objective to serve customers within 60 seconds of their arrival at the
drive-thru window. Each restaurant has a computerized point-of-sale system which displays each
individual item ordered on a monitor in
front of the food and drink preparers. This enables the preparers to begin filling an order
before the order is completed and totaled, and thereby increases the speed of service to the
customer and the number of sales per hour. The restaurants are generally open from 12 to 15 hours
per day, seven days a week, for lunch, dinner and late-night snacks and meals.

Supplies   .  The Company and its franchisees purchase their food, beverages and supplies from
Company-approved suppliers. All products must meet standards and specifications set by the
Company. Management constantly monitors the quality of the food, beverages and supplies provided
to the restaurants. The Company has been successful in negotiating price concessions from
suppliers for bulk purchases of food and paper supplies used by the restaurants. The Company
believes that these arrangements have achieved cost savings, improved food quality and consistency
and helped decrease volatility of food and supply costs for the restaurants. All essential food
and beverage products are available or, upon short notice, could be made available from alternate
qualified suppliers.

Management and Employees  . Each company-operated restaurant employs approximately 25
employees, many of whom work part-time. The management staff of a typical restaurant operated by
the Company consists of a general manager and two assistant managers. Each company-operated
restaurant unit supervisor reports directly to a district manager. The district managers are able
to provide close, hands-on management of each company-operated restaurant since they have
responsibility for only five to eight restaurants. Each district manager reports directly to the
director of operations.

Supervision and Training  . The Company believes that training and personnel development
are crucial to its success. The Company s training program is an intensive four-week program
consisting of both in-store and classroom training. The in-store training stresses food quality,
fast, friendly customer service, restaurant cleanliness, and proper management operations of a
quick service restaurant. The classroom training consists of such topics as food safety and
sanitation, employment laws and regulations, interviewing and hiring of employees, and systems to
control both food and labor costs. Prior to opening, each restaurant must have a minimum of three
trained and certified managers that have successfully completed the Company training program.

Advertising and Promotion   .  Marketing promotions are planned by the Company s national
marketing committee made up of Company employees and selected franchisee representatives from the
Back Yard Burgers, Inc. franchisee association s board of directors. The five franchisees are
elected to two-year terms by the franchise association. These franchisees also serve as officers
of the franchise association for the two-year term as well. Production of some marketing materials
is paid for through a national advertising fund, which collects 1% of taxable sales from each
franchisee and company-operated restaurant. Of that 1%, approximately 50% goes toward the creation
of marketing tools such as advertising copy for use on local radio and television, ad slicks,
four-color art, design and other collateral pieces and marketing expenses and approximately 50%
goes toward testing new products and systems, market research, improvements in operating methods
and techniques or for other such purposes that the Company deems to be in the interest of improving
operations and earnings of restaurants.

Restaurant Reporting   .  Each restaurant has a computerized point-of-sale system monitored by
the management of the restaurant. With this system, managers are able to monitor sales, labor,
customer counts and other pertinent information every 30 minutes that the restaurant is open. This
information allows a manager to better control labor utilization, inventories and operating costs.
For company-operated restaurants, management monitors sales, food and labor costs, product mix,
inventories and customer counts on a weekly basis and profit and loss statements and balance sheets
on a monthly basis.

9

Table of Contents   

Franchise Operations 

Strategy.   In addition to the development of company-operated restaurants, the Company will
continue to emphasize the development of additional franchised restaurants expected to be opened
pursuant to existing area development agreements and franchise agreements as well as the pursuit of
additional franchised restaurants pursuant to new area development agreements and franchise
agreements. The Company believes that it has attracted a committed and enthusiastic group of
franchisees as a result of the strength of its concepts and operating strategies. The Company will
continue to promote the development of franchised restaurants in existing markets enabling
franchisees to increase overall spending on advertising to drive guest traffic and minimize
distribution costs.

Franchisee Support Services   .  The Company maintains a staff of six well-trained and
experienced franchised field consultants whose only responsibilities are to help train and assist
franchisees in opening new restaurants and to monitor the operations of existing restaurants.
These services are provided as part of the Company s franchise program. Upon the opening of a new
franchised restaurant, the Company sends an opening team to the restaurant to assist the franchisee
during the first several days that the restaurant is open. This management team works in the
restaurant to monitor compliance with the Company s standards as to quality of product and service.

Each franchise field consultant supervises franchised restaurants in defined geographic areas.
Presently, the Company has one franchise field consultant for each 21 restaurants. That ratio
will increase as existing franchisees develop new stores within existing territories. Each
franchise field consultant has been fully trained by the Company to assist franchisees in
implementing the operating procedures and policies of the Company once a restaurant is open. As
part of these services, the franchise service representative rates the restaurant s hospitality,
food quality, speed of service and cleanliness and maintenance of facilities. The franchisees
receive a written report of the findings and, if any deficiencies are noted, recommended procedures
to be followed to correct such deficiencies. In addition, the consultant assists in developing
business and marketing plans, as well as assisting in the training and development of the
franchisee s staff.

The Company also provides construction support services to its franchisees. All site plans
must be approved by the Company before construction or site improvements begin. These plans
include information detailing building location, internal traffic patterns and curb cuts, location
of utilities, walkways, driveways, signs and parking lots and a complete landscape plan. The
Company also approves all plans and specifications for the restaurant building to ensure uniformity
of design of the building and the site improvements. The Company s personnel also visit the site
during construction, to meet with the franchisees and verify that all Company standards are met.

Advertising and Promotion   .  Franchisees are required to participate in seasonal promotions,
which are supported by television, radio, newspaper, banners, point-of-purchase materials and other
local store marketing activities. The Company s marketing manual outlines advertising and public
relations promotions as well as new store opening information, grand opening information, trade
area surveys and describes how to write a marketing plan and budget for the franchisee s area.
Marketing is supported by a staff consisting of two field marketing managers who coordinate plans
and implementation with a national advertising agency. Approved suppliers are set up to facilitate
such things as uniforms and collateral materials.

Area Development and Franchise Agreements   .  In addition to offering single unit franchise
agreements, the Company also promotes franchisees to enter into area development agreements. The
area development agreement grants to the franchisee the exclusive right to develop and open a
specified number of restaurants within a period of time and in a defined geographic territory and
thereafter to operate each restaurant in accordance with the terms and conditions of the franchise
agreement. The franchise agreement grants an exclusive license at a specified location to operate
a restaurant in accordance with the Back Yard Burgers system and to utilize the Company s
trademarks, service marks and other rights of the Company relating to the sale of its menu items.
The term of a franchise agreement is 10 years, renewable for successive five year periods, if
certain conditions pertaining to such renewal are met, including the payment of a $1,000 renewal
fee.

10

Table of Contents   

Each area development agreement establishes the number of restaurants the franchisee is to
construct and open in the territory during the term of the area development agreement after
considering many factors, including the residential, commercial and industrial characteristics of
the area, geographic factors, population of the area and the
previous experience of the franchisee. The franchisee s development schedule for the
restaurants is set forth in the area development agreement. As of December 31, 2005, the Company
had entered into franchise agreements and area development agreements with certain franchisees that
require them to open or have under construction a minimum of 300 restaurants by the end of August
31, 2013. Of the 127 franchised restaurants open as of December 31, 2005, 106 were being operated
under area development agreements by multiple unit franchisees and 21 were being operated under
single franchise agreements by single unit franchisees. The Company may revoke an area development
agreement of any franchisee that is unsuccessful in meeting its projected development schedule.
During the past three years, the Company has exercised its right to terminate eight area
development agreements, which related to the development of up to 19 stores, for lack of
performance by multiple unit franchisees with respect to their projected development schedules.
None of these agreements were terminated during 2005; however, the Company does anticipate the
termination of at least six agreements, which relate to the development of up to 66 stores, during
2006 due to lack of required development under the agreements. The total deferred fees associated
with these agreements (net of sales commissions) are approximately $189,000, of which the company
will recognize a portion or all upon termination of these agreements. The Company believes that
its overall experience with franchisees who commit to develop restaurants under franchise
agreements and area development agreements has been favorable, although there can be no assurance
that future performance by franchisees under these agreements will be successful.

The franchise agreement and area development agreement require that the franchisee submit
information regarding proposed restaurant sites to the Company for its review. The Company does
not arrange or make any provisions for financing the development of restaurants by its franchisees.
Each franchisee is required to purchase all fixtures, equipment, inventory, products, ingredients,
materials and other supplies used in the operation of its restaurants from approved suppliers, all
in accordance with the Company s specifications. The Company provides a training program for
management personnel of its franchisees. Under the terms of the franchise agreement, the Company
has adopted standards of quality, service and food preparation for franchised restaurants. Each
franchisee is required to comply with all of the standards for restaurant operations as published
from time to time in the Company s operations manual.

The Company may terminate a franchise agreement for several reasons, including among others,
the franchisee s bankruptcy or insolvency, default in the payment of royalties or advertising fees
to the Company, failure to maintain standards set forth in the franchise agreement or operations
manual, material violation of any law, ordinance or governmental rule or regulation or cessation of
business. In such event, the Company may also elect to terminate a multiple unit franchisee s area
development agreement.

Franchise Fees and Royalties   .  Under the current franchise agreement, each franchisee is
generally required to pay a franchise fee of $25,000. If a franchisee purchases franchise
development rights in an area pursuant to an area development agreement, the franchisee must pay
$25,000 for the first restaurant and agree to pay a franchise fee of $22,000 for each additional
restaurant covered under the agreement. With respect to the area development agreement, the amount
of the fee varies depending upon the number of restaurants the Company estimates can be developed
within the territory. Upon signing the area development agreement, the franchisee will pay to the
Company a franchise fee of $25,000 for the first restaurant, plus a $5,000 (per restaurant) area
development fee (to be credited toward the subsequent $22,000 franchise fees(s)) for subsequent
restaurants covered under the area development agreement. For example, for a franchisee whose area
development agreement requires the development of five restaurants, the franchise fee will be
$25,000 for the first restaurant and the area development fee will by $20,000, and the franchise
fee will be $17,000 ($22,000 less $5,000) for each of the next four restaurants for an aggregate
total of $113,000. Each franchisee is also generally required to pay the Company a weekly royalty
of 4% of the restaurant s taxable sales and to pay 1% of the restaurant s weekly taxable sales to
the Company s national advertising fund. Each restaurant is required to spend not less than 2% of
the restaurant s taxable sales on local store marketing.

11

Table of Contents   

Competition 

Restaurant Operations.   The restaurant industry, particularly the fast food segment, is highly
competitive with respect to price, service, food quality and location and there are numerous
well-established competitors possessing substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and
other resources than the Company. The Company believes that its primary direct competitors consist
of McDonald s Corp., Burger King Corp., Wendy s International, Inc. and Chik-Fil-A. In addition,
there are other national, regional and local fast food chains, many of which specialize in or offer
quick serve hamburger and chicken products. The Company can also be expected to face competition
from a broad range of other restaurants and food service establishments. Many of the Company s
competitors have achieved significant national, regional and local brand name and product
recognition and engage in extensive advertising and promotional programs, both generally and in
response to efforts by additional competitors to enter new markets or introduce new products. In
addition, the fast food industry is characterized by the frequent introduction of new products,
accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns. In recent years, numerous companies in the fast
food industry have introduced products positioned to capitalize on growing consumer preference for
food products which are upscale and are, or are perceived to be, healthful, nutritious, low in
calories and low in fat content. It can be expected that the Company will be subject to
competition from companies whose products or marketing strategies address these consumer
preferences. In addition, the market for suitable restaurant locations is highly competitive in
that fast food companies, major restaurant companies and non-food companies compete for prime real
estate sites.

Franchise Operations   .  In addition to its restaurant operations, the Company competes with
fast food chains, major restaurant chains and other franchisors for franchisees. Many franchisors,
including those in the restaurant industry, have greater market recognition and greater financial,
marketing and human resources.

Trademarks and Service Marks 

The Company believes its trademarks and service marks have significant value and are important
to its marketing efforts. The Company has registered the name  Back Yard Burgers  and the kettle
and flame design as service marks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The
Company s policy is to pursue registration of its marks whenever possible and to oppose vigorously
any infringement of its marks.

Government Regulations 

The Company is subject to Federal Trade Commission regulation and several state laws which
regulate the offer and sale of franchises. The Company is also subject to state laws that regulate
substantive aspects of the franchisor   franchisee relationship. The FTC s Trade Regulation Rule
on Franchising requires the Company to furnish to prospective franchisees a franchise offering
circular containing information prescribed by this rule.

State laws that regulate the offer and sale of franchises and the franchisor   franchisee
relationship presently exist in a substantial number of states. Such laws generally require
registration of the franchise offering with state authorities and regulate the franchise
relationship by, for example, requiring the franchisor to deal with its franchisees in good faith,
prohibiting interference with the right of free association among franchisees, limiting the
imposition of standards of performance on a franchisee and regulating discrimination against
franchisees in charges, royalties or fees. Although such laws may restrict a franchisor in the
termination of a franchise agreement by, for example, requiring  good cause  to exist as a basis
for the termination, advance notice to the franchisee of the termination, an opportunity to cure a
default and a repurchase of inventory or other compensation, these provisions have not had a
significant effect on the Company s franchise operations. The Company is not aware of any pending
franchise legislation which in its view is likely to affect significantly the operations of the
Company. The Company believes that its operations comply in all material respects with rules and
the applicable state franchise laws.

Each company-operated and franchised restaurant is subject to licensing and regulation by a
number of governmental authorities, which may include health, sanitation, safety, fire, building
and other agencies in the state or municipality in which the restaurant is located. Difficulties
in obtaining or failure to obtain the required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the
development of a new restaurant in a particular area. The Company is subject to federal and state
environmental regulations, but these regulations have not had a material effect on the

12

Table of Contents   

Company s
operations. More stringent and varied requirements of local governmental bodies with respect to
zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent the development of a new
restaurant in a particular area.

The Company is also subject to state and federal labor laws that govern its relationship with
its employees, such as minimum wage requirements, overtime and working conditions and citizenship
requirements. Significant numbers of the Company s food service and preparation personnel are paid
at rates governed by the federal minimum wage. Accordingly, further increases in the minimum wage
would increase the Company s labor costs and may have an adverse effect on the Company s operating
margins.

Employees 

As of March 1, 2006, the Company employed approximately 1,000 persons in its restaurant
operations, 36 of whom are corporate personnel, 124 of whom are restaurant management and
supervisory personnel and the remainder of whom are hourly restaurant personnel. Of the 36
corporate employees, 14 are in management positions and 22 are administrative or office employees.

Available Information 

The
Company maintains an internet website at
 www.backyardburgers.com.  The Company makes
available free of charge under the section  Investor Relations  of its website links to its annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and all
amendments to any of those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after providing such reports
to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

13

Table of Contents   

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 

Of the 44 company-operated restaurants as of December 31, 2005, the Company has entered into
leases, as lessee, for 30 restaurants. The Company owns the real property for 14 restaurants. The
Company s leases are generally written for a term of five to 15 years with one or more five-year
renewal options. The Company s average monthly lease cost for the 12 company-operated restaurants
occupied under a ground lease is approximately $3,600 per month. For the 18 restaurants where the
Company leases the building as well as the site, the average monthly cost is approximately $5,700
per month. Most leases are operating leases.

The Company s executive offices are located in approximately 7,500 square feet of leased space
at 1657 N. Shelby Oaks Drive, Suite 105, Memphis, Tennessee 38134. The Company s lease expires
February 28, 2007 and provides for a minimum annual rent of $80,040. The Company also has a
National Training Center located in approximately 2,500 square feet of lease space at 7780 Stage
Road, Bartlett, Tennessee, 38135. This lease expires July 31, 2014 and provides for an average
annual rent of $42,500. BYB Properties, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, rents
nominal office space at 103 Faulk Road, Suite 200, Wilmington, Delaware 19803. The annual rent for
this space is approximately $5,200.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

The Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims and liabilities, such as sexual
harassment, slip and fall cases, etc., which arise in the ordinary course of business and are
generally covered by insurance. In the opinion of management, the amount of the ultimate liability
with respect to those actions will not have a materially adverse impact on our financial position
or results of operations and cash flows.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY-HOLDERS 

No items are reportable hereunder.

PART II  

ITEM 5.  
       
      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES  

The Company s common stock is traded and quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. under the
symbol  BYBI.  The following table sets forth, for all periods indicated, the high and low closing
bid prices for the common stock as reported by Nasdaq. Such price information contains
inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commissions paid, and may not necessarily
reflect actual transactions.

At March 1, 2006, the common stock of record was held by approximately 520 record
stockholders. On March 1, 2006, the last sale price for the common stock as reported by Nasdaq was
$4.73 per share.

14

Table of Contents   

The Company has not paid or declared cash distributions or dividends and does not intend to
pay cash dividends on the common stock or its preferred stock in the foreseeable future. Future
cash dividends, if any, will be determined by the board of directors based on the Company s
earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other relevant factors. The Company has a
loan agreement in place which requires the prior written consent of the lending institution for any
dividends paid by the Company, which according to the loan agreement shall not be unreasonably
withheld.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
 OPERATIONS 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

The information required by Items 6, 7, 7A and 8 is incorporated herein by reference from the
Financial Supplement.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

No items are reportable hereunder.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

The Company has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure
controls and procedures pursuant to Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 as of the end of the period covered by the report. The evaluation was performed under the
supervision and with the participation of the Company s management, including the Chief Executive
Officer (the  CEO ) and Chief Financial Officer (the  CFO ). Based on that evaluation, our CEO and
CFO have concluded, that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the
period covered by this report.

There have been no changes in our internal control during the quarter ended December 31, 2005
that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
financial reporting.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 

None.

15

Table of Contents   

PART III  

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 

The information required by Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 is incorporated herein by reference
from the Company s definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held May
18, 2006, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.

PART IV  

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a)(1) Consolidated Financial Statements 

The following consolidated financial statements, notes related thereto and report of
independent registered public accounting firm are referenced in Item 8 of this Form 10-K and are
incorporated herein by reference from the Financial Supplement:

(a)(2) Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules: 

All schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related instructions or are not
applicable and therefore have been omitted.

16

Table of Contents   

(a)(3) Exhibits 

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  (4)  

3.2

Amended and Restated By-Laws.  (2)  

4.1

Specimen Common Stock Certificate.  (2)  

10.1

Employment Agreement, dated April 15, 1993, between the Registrant and Lattimore M.
Michael.  (1)  

10.2

Form of Incentive Stock Option Plan of 1993.  (1)  

10.3

Lease, dated February 1, 1990, between Trezevant Properties and the Registrant. 
(1)  

10.4

Joint Venture Agreement of Lester s Back Yard Burgers Joint Venture I by and among William L.
Lester, Pattie F. Lester, Patricia B. Litow, Elizabeth B. Fox and Back Yard Burgers, Inc.,
dated November 15, 1994.  (3)  

10.5

Joint Venture Agreement of Lester s Back Yard Burgers Joint Venture II by and among William
L. Lester, Pattie F. Lester, Patricia B. Litow, Elizabeth B. Fox, Charles B. Fox, David P. Fox
and Back Yard Burgers, Inc., dated November 15, 1994.  (3)  

10.6

1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan of Back Yard Burgers, Inc.  (4)  

10.7

The 1995 Incentive Award Plan of Back Yard Burgers, Inc.  (4)  

10.8

Joint Venture Agreement of Lester s Back Yard Burgers Joint Venture III by and among Pattie
F. Lester, Patricia B. Litow, Elizabeth B. Fox, Charles B. Fox, David P. Fox, Alexandra B.
Litow, Andrew R. Litow and Back Yard Burgers, Inc., dated September 12, 1995.  (4)  

10.9

Capital Contribution Agreement between Back Yard Burgers, Inc. and BYB Properties, Inc. dated
October 10, 1997.  (5)  

10.10

Trademark Assignment by Back Yard Burgers, Inc. to BYB Properties, Inc. dated October 10,
1997.  (5)  

10.11

Trademark License Agreement between BYB Properties, Inc. and Back Yard Burgers, Inc. dated
October 10, 1997.  (5)  

10.12

Revolving Loan Agreement regarding Uncommitted Line of Credit Agreement from BYB Properties,
Inc. to Back Yard Burgers, Inc. dated October 10, 1997.  (5)  

10.13

Promissory Note by and between BYB Properties, Inc. and Back Yard Burgers, Inc. dated
October 10, 1997.  (5)  

17

Table of Contents   

18

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 

31.1*

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer. 

31.2*

Certification by the Chief Financial Officer. 

32.1*

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer. 

32.2*

Certification by the Chief Financial Officer. 

19

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

BACK YARD BURGERS, INC. 

By:

/s/ Lattimore M. Michael

Lattimore M. Michael, Chairman

and Chief Executive Officer 

Date:

March 30, 2006 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act, this report has been signed below
by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

Signature 
       
     Title 
       
     Date 

/s/ Lattimore M. Michael

Chairman of the Board and  

Lattimore M. Michael

Chief Executive Officer

March 30, 2006  

/s/ Joseph L. Weiss

Chief Operating Officer 

March 30, 2006  

Joseph L. Weiss

and Director 

/s/ Michael G. Webb

Chief Financial Officer 

March 30, 2006  

Michael G. Webb

/s/ W. Kurt Henke

Director

March 30, 2006  

W. Kurt Henke

/s/ Jim Peterson

Director 

March 30, 2006  

Jim Peterson

/s/ William B. Raiford, III

Director 

March 30, 2006  

William B. Raiford, III

20

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT 
TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 

Table of Contents   

Selected Consolidated Financial Data   
 (in thousands, except per share data) 

The selected consolidated financial data presented below for each of the years in the five-year
period ended December 31, 2005 was derived from the Company s audited Consolidated Financial
Statements. Fiscal years 2001 through 2003 were restated in the Company s fiscal year 2004
Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect the correction of errors in lease accounting. The
cumulative effect of the correction of errors in lease accounting on retained earnings as of
December 30, 2000 was a reduction of $380,000. The selected consolidated financial data
should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included
elsewhere herein.

F-1

Table of Contents   

The selected consolidated financial data presented below is a summary of the unaudited
quarterly results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005:

F-2

Table of Contents   

The selected consolidated financial data presented below is a summary of the unaudited
quarterly results of operations for the year ended January 1, 2005:

F-3

Table of Contents   

Management s Discussion and Analysis   
  of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Introduction 

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Back Yard
Burgers  (the  Company ) consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, included elsewhere in
this annual report. Because Back Yard Burgers  fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to
December 31, fiscal 2003 contains 53 weeks versus 52 weeks for 2005 and 2004. As a result,
operating results for fiscal 2003 are not directly comparable to 2004 and 2005.

As of December 31, 2005, the Back Yard Burgers system included 171 restaurants, of which 44
were Company-operated and 127 were franchised. The Company s revenues are derived primarily from
Company-operated restaurant sales, franchise and area development fees and royalty fees. Certain
expenses (cost of restaurant sales, restaurant operating expenses, depreciation, amortization and
advertising) relate directly to Company-operated restaurants, while general and administrative
expenses relate to both Company-operated restaurants and franchise operations. The Company s
revenues and expenses are affected by the number and timing of the opening of additional
restaurants. Sales for new restaurants in the period immediately following their opening tend to
be high because of trial by the public and promotional activities.

Results of Operations 

The following table sets forth the percentage relationship to total revenues, unless otherwise
indicated, of certain items included in the Company s historical operations and operating data for
the periods indicated.

(1)  
       
     As a percentage of restaurant sales. 

(2)  
       
     As a percentage of (loss) income before taxes. 

F-4

Table of Contents   

(1)  
       
     Includes sales for restaurants open for entire trailing twelve-month period.
Restaurants are included in the calculation after the completion of six months of operations,
as sales during the period immediately after opening tend to be higher due to promotions and
trial by public. 

(2)  
       
     As of March 24, 2006, five franchised restaurants have opened since December 31,
2005, one each in Athens, AL, Cherokee, NC, Milledgeville, GA, Denham Springs, LA and Rogers,
AR and one franchised restaurant closed in Kingsport, TN. One Company-operated restaurant in
Tupelo, MS was sold in January 2006 and will continue to be operated as a franchised
restaurant, and one Company-operated restaurant in Memphis, TN was closed and sold in March
2006. 

COMPARISON OF FISCAL YEAR 2005 TO FISCAL YEAR 2004 

Restaurant sales  at Company-operated restaurants decreased $433,000, or 1.2%, to $34,479,000
during 2005 from $34,912,000 during 2004. Same-store sales at Company-operated restaurants open
for more than eighteen months decreased by 1.8% during 2005, resulting in a reduction of sales of
approximately $606,000. This decrease was offset by $173,000 in additional restaurant sales from
the net addition of two new Company-operated restaurants since the prior year.

Franchise and area development fees  were $629,000 during 2005, compared to $620,000 in 2004.
Thirty-two new franchised restaurants were opened in 2005, compared with thirty-one new franchised
units opened in 2004. Franchise and area development fees are recognized as revenue when
substantially all of the initial services required of the Company have been performed, which
generally coincides with the opening of the franchises.

Royalty fees  increased 33.3% to $4,143,000 during 2005 from $3,108,000 during 2004. The
increase is the result of an increase in franchised sales upon which the fees are based. Franchise
restaurant sales increased to approximately $104.3 million in 2005 from approximately $78.3 million
in 2004. The increase in franchised restaurant sales was due to a net unit growth of thirteen
franchised stores in addition to a full year of operations for units opened in 2004.

Advertising fees  increased 22.5% to $1,061,000 for 2005 from $866,000 during 2004. The
increase is primarily due to the increase in franchised restaurant sales, upon which a portion of
the fees is based. The portion of these fees that are based on sales is a 1% of sales National
Advertising Fund fee. As part of the standard franchise agreement, each operating unit contributes
1% of its sales to a National Advertising Fund. Franchise restaurant sales increased to
approximately $104.3 million in 2005 from approximately $78.3 million in 2004. The increase in
franchised restaurant sales was due to a net unit growth of thirteen franchised stores in addition
to a full year of operations for units opened in 2004. Also included in advertising fees are
monies collected from franchisees for direct mail advertising in addition to the 1% National
Advertising Fee. In 2005, the Company recognized approximately $23,000 in revenue associated with
direct mail advertising funds, and in 2004, the Company recognized approximately $84,000.

Other  revenues is primarily comprised of sales of proprietary food products to franchisees and
payments by certain vendors of the Company primarily as contributions to the National Advertising
Fund based upon purchasing volumes of our franchisees. These purchases by franchisees from vendors
have no specific incremental impact to costs of the Company. Revenue from sales of proprietary
food products is recognized when the products are shipped. Volume based revenue and contributions
from our vendors are recognized throughout the accounting period based on the purchase volumes by
our franchisees from these vendors. The Company also includes other miscellaneous revenues in
other revenue. Other revenue remained relatively flat at $689,000 for 2005 and $677,000 for 2004.
The increase in other revenues is primarily due to an increase the sales of proprietary food
products to franchisees.

Cost of restaurant sales , consisting of food, beverage and paper costs, totaled $11,125,000
during 2005 compared to $11,066,000 during 2004, increasing to 32.3% as a percentage of restaurant
sales during 2005 from

F-5

Table of Contents   

31.7% for 2004. The cost of beef increased by 5.6% over the prior year, and
the Company also incurred increases in other food costs driven primarily by higher fuel costs over
the year-earlier period.

Restaurant operating expenses,  consisting of labor, supplies, utilities, rent, insurance and
certain other unit level operating expenses, increased to $16,898,000 for 2005 from $16,726,000
during 2004. These expenses increased as a percentage of restaurant sales to 49.0% in 2005 from
47.9% in 2004. Operating costs, including utilities, insurance, property taxes, credit card
discount fees, repairs and maintenance and other unit level operating expenses increased as a
percentage of sales by 1.5%. Labor costs as a percentage of restaurant sales decreased by 0.4%,
offsetting a portion of these increases.

General and administrative  costs increased $1,538,000, or 29.1%, to $6,818,000 during 2005
from $5,280,000 in 2004, increasing as a percentage of total revenue to 16.6% from 13.1% during
2004. Corporate personnel related costs, including benefit costs, increased by approximately
$778,000, $511,000 of which was a pre-tax non-cash stock compensation charge relating to the
extension of the maturity date of certain stock options upon the resignation of an officer/director
on January 7, 2005. The Company also incurred an additional $395,000 for professional services
during 2005. Approximately $102,000 of the increase was related to higher spending for customer
feedback surveys. The remainder of the increase is due to increased spending in travel expenses
for franchisee support and openings and other miscellaneous general and administrative costs
incurred by the Company during 2005.

Advertising  expense, which decreased to $2,547,000 for 2005 from $2,652,000 during 2004,
decreased as a percentage of total revenues to 6.2% in 2005 compared with 6.6% in 2004. The
Company spent approximately 5% of net restaurant sales at Company-operated stores on local store
advertising, including media and print advertising in the four markets in which the
Company-operated restaurants are located during both FY 2005 and FY 2004. In addition, all stores
(both Company and franchised stores) contribute 1% of each stores net restaurant sales as
advertising fees to the Company s National Advertising Fund ((see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements). Of these advertising fees, the Company spends at least 50% of these funds
on the creation of marketing tools; however, in some years, the Company spends more than 50% of
these fees on advertising related costs. Fluctuations in the advertising spending as a percentage
of total revenues is related to the timing of promotions and exact percentage of the advertising
fees earned by the Company s National Advertising Fund that is spent on the creation of marketing
tools.

Depreciation  expense was $2,206,000 during 2005 compared with $2,096,000 during 2004. This
increase was primarily related to approximately $9.3 million in fixed assets additions during 2005,
the majority of which were added during the fourth quarter of 2005.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets  expense was $986,000 during 2005. The Company had no
impairment charges recorded during 2004. The Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge in the
quarter ending December 31, 2005 in the amount of $986,000. The charge consists primarily of the
write down of asset values for three Company-operated restaurants. The Company determined that an
impairment charge would be required under SFAS No. 144  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal
of Long-Lived Assets.  The impairment charge results from internal analysis which indicated that
the investment for the impacted restaurants will not be fully recovered by anticipated cash flows
(see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Interest expense  decreased 5.6% to $452,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $479,000
in the prior year. Debt outstanding as of December 31, 2005 was $10,965,000, compared with
$4,900,000 the year-earlier period. The decrease in interest expense was due to reductions of
existing debt throughout the first three quarters of 2005; however, on November 17, 2005, the
Company borrowed $6,200,000 to acquire four restaurants in Florida and to purchase the real
property of four additional restaurants, previously leased by the Company. This debt bears
interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR   2%. Interest expense for the fourth quarter of 2005 was
$140,000 compared with $113,000 for the fourth quarter of 2004.

Other, net  expense was $113,000 in 2005 compared with $100,000 in expense for 2004. This
increase was primarily due to an increase in franchise tax expense of $17,000 for the fifty-two
weeks ended December 31, 2005, over the year-earlier period. Also included in this category is
other miscellaneous income and expenses and these income and expense categories were relatively
consistent between the two years.

Income tax benefit  was $73,000 in 2005 compared with an income tax expense of $525,000 in
2004. The 2005 benefit was related to a pre-tax loss of $117,000 recognized by the Company in 2005
compared with pre-tax income of $1,789,000 in 2004.

F-6

Table of Contents   

COMPARISON OF FISCAL YEAR 2004 TO FISCAL YEAR 2003 

Back Yard Burgers  fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. As a result,
fiscal 2003 contains 53 weeks versus 52 weeks for the current year. Therefore, all references to
fiscal 2003 are for the 53-week period ended January 3, 2004 and all references to fiscal 2004 are for the 52-week period ended January 1, 2005. 

Restaurant sales  at Company-operated restaurants increased $633,000, or 1.8%, to $34,912,000
during 2004 from $34,279,000 during 2003. Same-store sales at Company-operated restaurants open
for more than eighteen months increased by 2.8% during 2004, resulting in an increase in sales of
approximately $873,000. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in restaurant sales of
$240,000 relating to the timing of closing and opening of Company-operated restaurants during 2004.

Franchise and area development fees  were $620,000 during 2004, an increase of 64.0% from
$378,000 in 2003. Thirty-one new franchised restaurants were opened in 2004, compared with
nineteen new franchised units opened in 2003. The Company recorded $86,000 in fees for the
cancellation of franchise and area development agreements in 2003 compared with zero in 2004, which
partially offsets the increase in fees due to increased openings. Franchise and area development
fees are recognized as revenue when substantially all of the initial services required of the
Company have been performed, which generally coincides with the opening of the franchises.

Royalty fees  increased 18.6% to $3,108,000 during 2004 from $2,621,000 during 2003. The
increase is the result of an increase in franchised sales upon which the fees are based. Franchise
restaurant sales increased to approximately $78.3 million in 2004 from approximately $66.2 million
in 2003. The increase in franchised restaurant sales was due to a net unit growth of twenty-four
franchised stores during 2004.

Advertising fees  increased 31.0% to $866,000 for 2004 from $661,000 during 2003. The increase
is primarily due to the increase in franchised restaurant sales, upon which a portion of the fees
is based. The portion of these fees that are based on sales is a 1% of sales National Advertising
Fund fee. As part of the standard franchise agreement, each operating unit contributes 1% of its
sales to a National Advertising Fund. Franchise restaurant sales increased to approximately $78.3
million in 2004 from approximately $66.2 million in 2003. The increase in franchised restaurant
sales was due to a net unit growth of twenty-four franchised stores during 2004. Also included in
advertising fees are monies collected from franchisees for direct mail advertising in addition to
the 1% National Advertising Fee. In 2004, the Company recognized approximately $84,000 in revenue
associated with direct mail advertising funds, and in 2003, the Company recognized approximately
$1,000.

Other  revenues is primarily comprised of sales of proprietary food products to franchisees and
payments by certain vendors of the Company primarily as contributions to the National Advertising
Fund based upon purchasing volumes of our franchisees. These purchases by franchisees from vendors
have no specific incremental impact to costs of the Company. Revenue from sales of proprietary
food products is recognized when the products are shipped. Volume based revenue and contributions
from our vendors are recognized throughout the accounting period based on the purchase volumes by
our franchisees from these vendors. Other revenues remained relatively flat at $677,000 for 2004
and $708,000 for 2003. The decrease in other revenues is primarily due to a decrease in other
miscellaneous revenues.

Cost of restaurant sales , consisting of food, beverage and paper costs, totaled $11,066,000
during 2004 compared to $10,935,000 during 2003, decreasing to 31.7% as a percentage of restaurant
sales during 2004 from 31.9% for 2003. The decrease as a percentage of restaurant sales is
primarily due to two price increases of approximately 2% each implemented by the Company during
2004. These price increases were partially offset by an 11% increase in the cost of beef over the
prior year as well as other miscellaneous cost increases driven primarily by higher fuel costs over
the year-earlier period.

Restaurant operating expenses,  consisting of labor, supplies, utilities, rent, insurance and
certain other unit level operating expenses, increased to $16,726,000 for 2004 from $16,494,000
during 2003. These expenses in total remained relatively flat as a percentage of restaurant sales
at 47.9% in 2004 compared with 48.1% in 2003. Labor costs as a percentage of restaurant sales
decreased by 0.4% but this savings was offset by higher spending for utilities and property taxes.

General and administrative  costs increased $729,000, or 16.0%, to $5,280,000 during 2004 from
$4,551,000 in 2003, increasing as a percentage of total revenue to 13.1% from 11.8% during 2003.
Corporate personnel related costs, including benefit costs, increased by approximately $444,000
over the prior year. The Company also incurred an additional $214,000 in professional   consulting
fees compared with the prior year as well as an additional $73,000 in travel expenses compared with
the prior year for franchisee support and openings.

F-7

Table of Contents   

Advertising  expense, which increased to $2,652,000 for 2004 from $2,349,000 during 2003,
increased as a percentage of total revenues to 6.6% in 2004 compared with 6.1% in 2003. The
Company spent approximately 5% of net restaurant sales at Company-operated stores on local store
advertising, including media and print advertising in the three
markets in which the Company-operated restaurants are located during both FY 2004 and FY 2003. In
addition, all stores (both Company and franchised stores) contribute 1% of each stores net
restaurant sales as advertising fees to the Company s National Advertising Fund (see Note 12 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Of these advertising fees, the Company spends at
least 50% of these funds on the creation of marketing tools; however, in some years, the Company
spends more than 50% of these fees on advertising related costs. Fluctuations in the advertising
spending as a percentage of total revenues is related to the timing of promotions and exact
percentage of the advertising fees earned by the Company s National Advertising Fund that is spent
on the creation of marketing tools.

Depreciation  expense was $2,096,000 during 2004 compared with $1,945,000 during 2003. This
increase was primarily related to $2.2 million in fixed asset additions during 2004 as well as $3.3
million in fixed asset additions in 2003, primarily related to the re-imaging of Company-operated
restaurants and the construction of new Company-operated restaurants.

Interest expense  decreased 11.1% to $479,000 for the year ended January 1, 2005 from $539,000
in the prior year. This decrease primarily results from lower average debt outstanding during
2004. Debt outstanding as of January 1, 2005 was $4,900,000, a decrease of $776,000 or 13.7% from
the year-earlier period.

Other, net  expense was $100,000 in 2004 compared with $68,000 in expense for 2003. The
increase was primarily due to an increase in franchise tax expense of $22,000 for the fifty-two
weeks ended January 1, 2005, over the year-earlier period. Also included in this category is other
miscellaneous income and expenses and these income and expense categories were relatively
consistent between the two years.

Income tax expense , which decreased by $22,000 to $525,000 from $547,000 in 2003, decreased as
a percentage of pre-tax income to 29.3% in 2004 from 30.9% in 2003. The decrease in income tax
expense as a percentage of pre-tax income is primarily a result of a $100,000 work opportunity tax
credit earned by the Company during 2004 compared with a $62,000 credit earned in 2003.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 

The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ( SFAS ) No. 144,  Accounting
for the Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,  at the beginning of 2002. We assess the
potential impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying value may not be recoverable. At each balance sheet date, the Company assesses
whether there has been impairment in the value of all long-lived assets by determining whether
projected undiscounted future cash flows from operations for each restaurant, as defined in SFAS
No. 144, exceed its net book value as of the assessment date. A new cost basis is established for
impaired assets based on the fair value of these assets as of the date the assets are determined to
be impaired.

No impairment charges were recorded by the Company during fiscal years 2004 or 2003; however,
in the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company incurred a non-cash charge for the effect of three
underperforming Company-operated restaurants. The Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge in
the quarter ending December 31, 2005 in the amount of $600,000 (net of a tax benefit of $386,000).
The charge consists primarily of the write down of asset values for three Company-operated
restaurants. The Company determined that an impairment charge would be required under SFAS No. 144
 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  The impairment charge results
from internal analysis which indicated that the investment for the impacted restaurants will not be
fully recovered by anticipated cash flows. One of the restaurants closed in December 2005 and one
in March 2006. The Company is currently seeking to sublease and/or sell its interest in the third
restaurant, which leases the land and building.

The taking of these impairment charges will not precipitate additional cash expenditure by the
Company, nor does the Company anticipate the future recognition of a material gain or loss on the
disposal of the assets on these respective properties.

As of January 3, 2004, the Company s accrual for future lease obligations related to closed
stores was $81,000. During 2004, lease payments of $65,000 were incurred and charged against this
reserve, and $16,000 in lease obligations were forgiven due to the negotiation of an
early buyout of future lease obligations for one of the closed

F-8

Table of Contents   

stores. The Company recorded the
$16,000 in forgiven lease obligations as a reduction in restaurant operating expenses. As of
January 1, 2005, the Company had no accrual for future lease obligations related to closed stores.

During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company recorded a $15,000 lease reserve related to a
closed store as noted above, and as of December 31, 2005, the accrual for future lease obligations
for closed stores remained $15,000.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Capital expenditures totaled $8,614,000 in 2005, $2,178,000 in 2004 and $2,702,000 in
2003. Generally, the Company constructs its restaurant buildings on leased properties for its
Company-operated restaurants. The Company owns the land and building at 14 Company-operated
restaurants. The average monthly lease cost for the 12 Company-operated restaurants occupied
under a ground lease at December 31, 2005 is approximately $3,600 per month. For the 18
restaurants where the Company leases the building as well as the site, the average monthly lease
cost is approximately $5,700.

Cash provided by operations for the Company is primarily affected by net earnings
adjusted for non-cash expenses which consist primarily of depreciation. Depreciation
totaled $2,206,000 in 2005, $2,096,000 in 2004 and $1,945,000 in 2003.

Cash provided by operations in 2005 was $3,334,000 compared with $1,765,000 in 2004. The
$1,569,000 increase in cash provided by operations was primarily related to the fluctuation in
total accounts payable and accrued expenses. In 2005, the Company s accounts payable and accrued
expenses increased by $595,000 compared with a $1,038,000 reduction in 2004. Cash provided by
operations in 2004 was $1,765,000 compared with $4,188,000 in 2003. $921,000 of this $2,423,000
decrease in cash provided by operations was related to a $1,038,000 reduction in accounts payable
and accrued expenses for the fifty-two week period ended January 1, 2005 compared with a $117,000
decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the year earlier period. An additional
$566,000 of the reduction in cash provided by operations was related to a $129,000 reduction in
income taxes payable in 2004 compared with a $437,000 increase in income taxes payable in the
year-earlier period. This change is primarily due to the fact that the Company has a $12,000
income tax payable as of January 1, 2005 and had $141,000 in income taxes payable at the end of FY
2003 and $296,000 in income taxes receivable at the end of FY 2002 due to an overpayment of income
taxes during FY 2002. $489,000 of the reduction in cash provided by operations was due a
reduction in net cash flows from deferred franchise and area development fees. The company
collects franchise and area development fees when agreements are entered, and defers the
recognition of the fees as income until the franchised locations opened. In FY 2003, the company
had positive cash flows of $696,000 from franchise and area development fees compared with $257,000
positive cash flows in FY 2004. Another significant item contributing to the decline in cash
provided from operations was related to other deferred income (see Note 1 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements). More funds were collected from vendors in FY 2003 than were
earned and less funds were collected from vendors in FY 2004 than were earned. As a result of the
timing of these collections, net cash provided by operations was positively impacted by $248,000 in
FY 2003 compared with a negative impact of $141,000 in FY 2004, resulting in a $389,000 swing from
year to year. In recent history, cash from operations and debt have been used for the addition of
new restaurants and equipment.

Net cash provided by financing activities was $5,778,000 for 2005 compared with net cash used
by financing activities of $642,000 in 2004. The Company incurred no long-term debt financing
during the year ended January 1, 2005 and made $776,000 in principal payments on existing debt
during the year ended January 1, 2005. In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company borrowed
$6,200,000 to acquire four restaurants in Florida and to purchase the real property of four
additional restaurants, previously leased by the Company.

During 2003, the Company entered a loan agreement with a financial institution in the amount
of $5,000,000. The loan agreement comprised the following three components: (1) a $2,500,000
five-year loan with a fixed rate of 5.2%. The funds from the five-year term loan were used to
refinance approximately $2.3 million of existing term loans with an average interest rate of 6.8%
and maturity dates ranging from one to two years, (2) a $2.0 million draw down line for future
expansion with a variable rate of interest equal to the one-month LIBOR rate plus a spread not to
exceed 3% that is calculated based on certain financial covenants and (3) a $500,000 revolver line
with a variable rate of interest equal to the one-month LIBOR rate plus a spread not to exceed 3%
that is calculated based on certain financial covenants. The Company net long term debt
outstanding was reduced by $574,000 from December 28, 2002 to January 3, 2004. As of January 3,
2004, the Company had total long-term debt of $5,676,000 and unused lines of credit and loan
commitments of potential additional borrowings of $2,500,000.

F-9

Table of Contents   

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had total long-term debt of $10,965,000 and unused lines
of credit and loan commitments of potential additional borrowings of $2.5 million. As of January
1, 2005, the Company had total long-term debt of approximately $4.9 million and unused lines of
credit and loan commitments of potential additional borrowings of $2.5 million.

Net cash used in investing activities for capital expenditures was $8,614,000 for 2005
compared with net cash used in investing activities of $2,178,000 in 2004. The increase in cash
used increased in 2005 due to the purchase of four
restaurants in Florida and to purchase the real property of four additional restaurants,
previously leased by the Company. Net cash used in investing activities for both 2005 and 2004 are
comprised of additions of property and equipment offset by proceeds on the sale of certain property
and equipment. Proceeds on the sale of property and equipment of $784,000 in 2005 and $1,076,000
in 2004 are primarily related to the sale of one Company-operated restaurant during each of those
years.

The Company is budgeting capital expenditures of approximately $3.5 to $4.0 million in fiscal
year 2006, excluding potential acquisitions and share repurchases. These capital expenditures
primarily relate to the development of two additional Company-operated restaurants, store equipment
upgrades and store interior remodels, and enhancements to existing financial and operating
information systems. The Company expects to fund fiscal year 2006 capital expenditures with cash
flow from operations and with funds under the loan agreement entered in February of 2003 in order
to fund these budgeted capital expenditures. The Company believes that existing cash and funds
generated from internal operations, as well as borrowings under the credit facility will meet the
Company s needs for the foreseeable future.

On January 2, 2001, the Company s board of directors adopted a stock repurchase plan that
allows the Company to repurchase up to 500,000 shares of its outstanding common stock. As of
December 31, 2005, the Company had repurchased 25,000 shares of common stock under the plan. No
purchases were made during fiscal years 2005, 2004 or 2003 and no further purchases are anticipated
in the near term.

Contractual Commitments 

The Company has contractual obligations and commercial commitments including long-term debt,
lease obligations and future purchase obligations. The table below presents our future contractual
obligations (in thousands):

(1)  
       
     Represents aggregate minimum lease payments. Some of the leases also require
contingent rent in addition to the minimum rent based on a percentage of sales. 

Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure about Market Risk 

The Company is exposed to certain financial market risks, the most predominant being
fluctuations in interest rates. Management monitors interest rate fluctuations as an integral part
of the Company s overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of
financial markets and seeks to reduce the potential adverse effect on our results. The effect of
interest rate fluctuations historically has been small relative to other factors affecting
operating results, such as food, labor and occupancy costs.

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had $6.2 million in borrowings bearing interest at a rate
equal to the one-month LIBOR plus 2%, adjusted monthly; therefore, the Company is currently exposed
to market risk from changes in the one-month LIBOR rate. The Company is considering the use of a
hedging instrument to minimize interest rate fluctuation risk and anticipates executing a cash flow
hedging instrument to convert a portion or all of the interest associated with this debt to a fixed
rate during 2006. The remainder of the Company s long-term debt portfolio is financed with fixed
rate debt, primarily in the form of capital leases.

F-10

Table of Contents   

Seasonality and Inflation 

While the Company does not believe that seasonality affects its operations in a materially
adverse manner, first quarter results will generally be lower than other quarters due to seasonal
climate conditions in the locations of many of its restaurants. Although results were negatively
impacted during 2005 due to a 5.6% increase in the cost of beef, management does not believe that
inflation has had a material effect on income during the fifty-two weeks ended December 31, 2005.
Increases in food, labor or other operating costs could adversely affect the Company s operations.
In the past, however, the Company generally has been able to increase menu prices or modify its
operating procedures to substantially offset increases in its operating costs.

Conversion of Preferred Stock 

In accordance with the provisions of the Company s Restated Certificate of Incorporation
regarding preferred stock, as a result of the Company s having attained after-tax net income in
excess of $600,000 during 1994, each share of preferred stock is convertible into one share of
common stock, at the option of the holder. The Company has notified preferred stockholders of
their right to convert preferred stock to common stock and anticipates that all shares of preferred
stock will be converted. Such conversion began on April 5, 1995, at which time there were
1,199,979 shares of preferred stock outstanding. As of December 31, 2005, only 19,269 shares have
yet to be converted.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements discusses new accounting policies
adopted by the Company during 2005 and the expected impact of accounting policies recently issued
or proposed but not yet required to be adopted. To the extent the adoption of new accounting
standards affects the Company s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, the
impacts are discussed in the applicable section(s) of the Management s Discussion and Analysis and
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of
operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to
make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities.

On an ongoing basis, management evaluates Company estimates, including those
related to bad debts, carrying value of investments in property and equipment,
goodwill, income taxes, contingencies and litigation. Management bases Company
estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the
basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that
are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these
estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

Management believes the following critical accounting policies affect our more
significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated
financial statements.

F-11

Table of Contents   

Revenue Recognition :

Revenue recognition at Company-operated restaurants is straightforward as
customers pay for products at the time of sale. The earnings reporting process is
covered by the Company s system of internal controls and generally does not require
significant management judgments and estimates. The Company calculates royalty
income each week based upon amounts reported by franchisees and provides for
estimated losses for revenues that are not likely to be collected. The Company
maintains these allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from
the inability of our franchisees and other borrowers to make required payments. If
the financial conditions of our customers or other borrowers were to deteriorate,
resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances
may be required.

Franchise fees are recognized as revenue when substantially all of the initial services
required of the Company have been performed, which generally coincides with the opening of the
franchises. Such services include training and assistance with site location, equipment vendors,
structural design and operating policies. Area development fees arise when franchisees are awarded
the right to develop, own and operate additional Back Yard Burgers restaurants in specific
geographical areas pursuant to the terms of an Area Development Agreement. Such fees are based on
the number of restaurants the franchisee expects to develop. These fees are included as revenue in
accordance with the franchise fee recognition policy as each additional restaurant is opened.
Under the terms of the franchise and area development agreements, the fees are non-refundable and
may be recognized as revenue should the franchisee fail to perform as agreed. Commission costs
associated with the sales of franchise and area development rights are expensed when related
revenues are recognized.

The Company also earns income from certain vendors based on purchases made by our franchisees
from those vendors. The Company records this income as other revenues in its statement of
operations as the Company has no cost associated with these purchases.

Long-Lived Assets :

The restaurant industry is capital intensive. The Company has approximately 73% of its total
assets invested in property and equipment. The Company capitalizes only those costs that meet the
definition of capital assets under generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, repairs
and maintenance costs that do not extend the useful life of the asset are expensed as incurred.

The depreciation of our capital assets over their estimated useful lives, and the
determination of any salvage values, requires management to make judgments about future events.
Because the Company utilizes many of its capital assets over relatively long periods, the Company
periodically evaluates whether adjustments to our estimated lives or salvage values are necessary.
The accuracy of these estimates affects the amount of depreciation expense recognized in a period
and, ultimately, the gain or loss on the disposal of the asset. Historically, gains and losses on
the disposition of assets have not been significant. However, such amounts may differ materially
in the future based on restaurant performance, technological obsolescence, regulatory requirements
and other factors beyond our control.

Due to the fact that the Company invests a significant amount in the construction or
acquisition of new restaurants, the Company has risks that these assets will not provide an
acceptable return on our investment and an impairment of these assets may occur. We assess the
potential impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying value may not be recoverable. The accounting test for whether an asset held for use
is impaired involves first comparing the carrying value of the asset with its estimated future
undiscounted cash flows. If these cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, the asset must be
adjusted to its current fair value. The Company periodically performs this test on each of our
restaurants to evaluate whether impairment exists. Factors influencing our judgment include the
age of the restaurant (new restaurants have significant start up costs which impede a reliable
measure of cash flow), estimation of future restaurant performance and estimation of restaurant
fair value. Due to the fact that the management can specifically evaluate impairment on a
restaurant by restaurant basis, the Company has historically been able to identify impaired
restaurants and record the appropriate adjustment.

The Company has approximately $1.8 million of goodwill on our balance sheet resulting from the
acquisition of businesses. Accounting standards adopted in 2002 require that we review goodwill
for impairment on an annual basis and cease all goodwill amortization. The adoption of these new
rules did not result in an impairment of our recorded goodwill. The annual evaluation of goodwill
impairment requires a two-step test in which the

F-12

Table of Contents   

market value of the Company is
compared to the recorded book value. If the market value is less than the book value, goodwill
impairment is recorded. Once an impairment of goodwill has been recorded, it cannot be reversed.

Deferred Income Taxes :

The Company records income tax liabilities utilizing known obligations and estimates of
potential obligations. A deferred tax asset or liability is recognized whenever there are future
tax effects from existing temporary differences and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the balance that is more
likely than not to be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, management must
make judgments and estimates on future taxable income, feasible tax planning strategies and
existing facts and circumstances. When management determines that deferred tax assets could be
realized in greater or less amounts than recorded, the asset balance and income statement reflect
the change in the period such determination is made. Based on management s estimates, there is
presently a $644,000 valuation allowance recorded on the Company s deferred tax assets. However,
changes in facts and circumstances that affect our judgments or estimates in determining the proper
deferred tax assets or liabilities could materially affect the recorded amounts.

Leases :

When determining the lease term for purposes of recording depreciation and rent or for
evaluating whether a lease is capital or operating, the Company includes option periods for which
failure to renew the lease imposes an economic penalty on the Company of such an amount that a
renewal appears, at the inception of the lease, to be reasonably assured.

For operating leases, minimum lease payments, including minimum scheduled rent increases, are
recognized as rent expense on a straight line basis over the lease term as that term is defined in
SFAS No. 13, as amended, including any option periods considered in the lease term and any periods
during which the Company has use of the property but is not charged rent by a landlord ( rent
holiday ). Contingent rentals are generally based on either a percentage of restaurant sales or as
a percentage of restaurant sales in excess of stipulated amounts, and thus are not included in
minimum lease payments but are included in rent expense when incurred. The Company has received no
leasehold improvement incentives from a landlord. No individual lease is material to the Company.

Stock-Based Compensation :

SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  encourages but does not require a
fair value based method of accounting for employee stock options or similar equity instruments.
SFAS No. 123 allows an entity to continue to measure compensation costs under Accounting Principles
Board Opinion ( APB ) No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  but requires pro forma
disclosure of net earnings as if the fair value based method of accounting had been applied. The
Company elected to follow APB No. 25 and related interpretations in accounting for our employee
stock options.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123 (Revised),  Share-Based Payment , a revision of
SFAS 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.  SFAS 123R requires the fair value measurement
of all stock-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, and
recognition of those expenses in the statement of operations. SFAS 123R is effective for annual
reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company will continue to account for
stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value method until adoption of SFAS 123R on January 1,
2006. Historically, the compensation expense recognized related to stock options under its current
method of accounting for stock issued to employees, Accounting Principles Board Opinion ( APB ) No.
25, has been minimal. We will adopt and apply the expense recognition provisions of SFAS 123R
beginning in the first quarter of 2006. The estimated impact of the adoption of SFAS 123R and SAB
107 for fiscal year 2006, relating to prior grants only, will be approximately $56,000, net of tax.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

At December 31, 2005, the Company had a guarantee of a franchisee loan relating to the
acquisition of a parcel of land and the construction of a building that is currently being operated
as a Back Yard Burgers franchised location. The original loan balance was $655,000 and the balance
as of December 31, 2005, was approximately $473,000. The term of the guarantee is through August
13, 2023, the maturity date of the loan. If the franchisee ceases to make note payments, the
Company may be required to make note payments until the collateral is liquidated. The guarantee
provides for no limitation to the maximum potential future payments under the guarantee; however,
the estimated maximum potential future payments are approximately $473,000, which represents the
principal balance of the note payable as of the end of our fiscal year 2005. The Company currently
has no liability

F-13

Table of Contents   

recorded in its financial statements for the guarantor s obligations under the guarantee.
There are no recourse provisions in the guaranty agreement; however, the Company s potential loss
contingencies are minimal since the loan is collateralized with assets whose estimated fair value
is greater that the amount of debt outstanding and based on current cash flows of the restaurant,
if acquired through default, would be adequate to cover the debt payments.

Known Trends and Uncertainties 

During 2005, the cost of beef increased approximately 5.6% over the prior year while the cost
of chicken was relatively stable. Beef costs also increased in 2003 and 2004 by approximately 11%
each year. In light of what appeared to be a sustained period of increased beef costs, the Company
implemented menu price increases of approximately 2% effective in June 2004 and October 2004 in
order to partially offset these increased costs. It may be difficult to raise menu prices to fully
cover any future cost increases, but to the extent permitted by competition, we may implement
additional menu price increases if deemed necessary. Additional margin improvements may have to be
made through operational improvements, equipment advances and increased volumes to help offset
these cost increases, due to the competitive state of the quick-service restaurant industry.

Labor will continue to be a critical factor in the foreseeable future. In most areas where
the Company operates restaurants, there is a shortage of suitable labor. This, in itself, could
result in higher wages as the competition for employees intensifies, not only in the restaurant
industry, but in practically all retail and service industries. It is crucial for the Company to
develop and maintain programs to attract and retain quality employees.

The Company has incurred increases in energy prices, including fuel and utilities, in recent
history, as have most retail businesses. Continued increases in the cost of fuel and energy may be
difficult to offset with additional menu price increases and could have an adverse effect on our
business and operations.

Due to the competitive nature of the restaurant industry, site selection continues to be
challenging as the number of businesses vying for locations with similar characteristics increases.
This will likely result in higher occupancy costs for prime locations.

The cost of construction has also increased in recent history, in part due to the hurricanes
that impacted the Southeastern United States during 2005. The Company may not be able to achieve
higher restaurant sales volumes or margin improvements to offset these or addition construction
cost increases, which may in turn have an adverse effect on our business and operations,
particularly for new restaurant development.

Company-operated same-store sales decreased 1.8% during 2005 and franchised same-store sales
decreased 2.2% during 2005. Average per-store annual unit sales volumes ( Average Unit Volumes )
were $835,000 at Company-operated stores and $823,000 at franchised stores during 2005. The
Company will continue with its marketing strategy of enhancing the Company s points of
differentiation and further positioning the Company as a premium fast-food provider. Management
intends to continue testing new, bold-flavored premium product offerings and modifying existing
menu offerings in order to drive positive trends for same-store sales and average unit volumes,
both of which are key performance indicators in our industry. The Company will also continue to
explore potentially extending operational hours at both Company-operated and franchised stores to
accomplish these goals as well. By continuing to improve in these areas, it will also help to
offset some of the potential negative financial impacts of the other trends and uncertainties
listed above.

F-14

Table of Contents   

BACK YARD BURGERS, INC.   
 Consolidated Balance Sheets  
(in thousands, except for share and per share amounts)  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-15

Table of Contents   

BACK YARD BURGERS, INC.   
 Consolidated Statements of Operations   
(in thousands, except per share amounts)  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-16

Table of Contents   

BACK YARD BURGERS, INC.   
 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity   
(in thousands, except for number of share)  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-17

Table of Contents   

BACK YARD BURGERS, INC.   
 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
(in thousands) 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-18

Table of Contents   

NOTE 1   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Business Activity.  Back Yard Burgers, Inc. (the  Company ) owns and operates quick-service and
fast-casual restaurants and is engaged in the sale of franchises in Back Yard Burgers and the
collection of royalties based upon related franchise sales. The Company grants franchise rights
for the use of the  Back Yard Burgers  trade name and other associated trademarks, signs, emblems,
logos, slogans and service marks which have been or may be developed. At December 31, 2005, the
Company operated 44 restaurants in four states (Mississippi, Arkansas, Tennessee and Florida) and
franchised 127 restaurants in 20 states.

Consolidation Policy.  The financial statements include the accounts of Back Yard Burgers, Inc. and
its wholly owned subsidiaries, Little Rock Back Yard Burgers, Inc., BYB Properties, Inc. and
Atlanta Burgers BYB Corporation, as well as Back Yard Burgers National Advertising Fund. All
intercompany transactions have been eliminated.

Fiscal Year.  The Company maintains its financial records on a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the
Saturday closest to December 31. The year ended January 3, 2004 was a 53 week year and the years
ended January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2005 were 52 week years.

Use of Estimates.  The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at
the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents.  The Company considers cash on hand, deposits in banks and short-term
investments with an original maturity of less than three months when purchased as cash and cash
equivalents.

Inventories.  Inventories primarily consist of food and beverage products and are valued at the
lower of cost or market; cost is determined by the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) method.

Property and Equipment.  Property and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation.
At the time property and equipment are retired, or otherwise disposed of, the asset and
accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and any resulting gain or loss is included
in earnings. Improvements to leased properties are depreciated over the shorter of their useful
life or the lease term, which includes renewal option periods where failure to exercise such
options would result in an economic penalty of an amount that such renewal options are reasonably
assured at the inception of the lease. Depreciation is computed on the straight-line method over
the following estimated useful lives: buildings and building improvements   15 to 25 years;
leasehold improvements   7 to 20 years (coincides with the initial lease term); furniture, fixtures
and equipment   5 to 7 years; and transportation vehicles   5 years.

Goodwill.  As of January 1, 2002, the Company accounts for goodwill under Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . Under SFAS 142, goodwill is
no longer amortized but is tested for impairment using a fair value approach, at the  reporting
unit  level. A reporting unit is the operating segment, or a business one level below that
operating segment (the  component  level) if discrete financial information is prepared and
regularly reviewed by management at the component level. The Company has determined that it
operates as one segment and one reporting unit because the operations of the restaurants are
homogeneous and discrete financial information of different segments or reporting units is not
prepared and regularly reviewed by management.

SFAS 142 requires a two-step process for testing impairment. First, the fair value the
Company is compared to its carrying value to determine whether an indication of impairment exists.
Market capitalization is used to determine the fair value of the Company. If an impairment is
indicated, then the fair value of the goodwill is determined by allocation of the Company s fair
value to its assets and liabilities (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the
Company had been acquired in a business combination. The amount of impairment for goodwill and
other intangible assets is measured as the excess of its carrying value over its fair value. As
required by SFAS No. 142, the Company completed a transitional impairment test for goodwill as of
January 1, 2002, and also an impairment test as of January 3, 2004, January 1, 2005 and December
31, 2005.

At each balance sheet date, the Company also assesses whether there has been impairment in the
value of goodwill at the reporting unit level by determining whether projected undiscounted future
cash flows from
operations for each restaurant exceed its net book value, including goodwill, as of the assessment
date. A new cost basis is established for impaired assets based on the fair value of these assets
as of the date the assets are determined to be impaired.

Based on the results of these tests, the Company did not record any impairment of our
goodwill.

F-19

Table of Contents   

Other Deferred Income.  The Company accounts for deferred income under EITF 02-16  Accounting by a
Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor . EITF 02-16
concluded that cash consideration received by a customer from a vendor is presumed to be a
reduction of the prices of the vendor s products or services and should, therefore, be
characterized as a reduction of cost of sales when recognized in the customer s income statement.
The Company has recorded volume-based incentives related to Company-operated stores as a reduction
of cost of restaurant sales for all contracts or agreements entered into after December 28, 2002.

During 2003 and 2004, the Company received funds from certain vendors relating to future
purchases by the Company. The Company deferred this amount as other deferred income. These funds
are recorded as a reduction in cost of sales in a proportionate manner with respective future
purchases. Under the terms of the contracts, the Company is required to purchase specific volumes
in future years. If these purchase volumes are not met, the funds related to the volume shortages
will be refunded to the vendors. The Company recognized approximately $316,000, $282,000 and
$261,000 as a reduction in cost of sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively pursuant to these
arrangements.

Income Taxes.  Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effects of temporary differences
between the financial reporting basis and the income tax basis of the Company s assets and
liabilities.

Franchise and Area Development Fee Income.  Franchise fees are recognized as revenue when
substantially all of the initial services required of the Company have been performed, which
generally coincides with the opening of the franchises. Such services include training and
assistance with site location, equipment vendors, structural design and operating policies. Area
development fees arise when franchisees are awarded the right to develop, own and operate
additional Back Yard Burgers restaurants in specific geographical areas pursuant to the terms of an
Area Development Agreement. Such fees are based on the number of restaurants the franchisee
expects to develop. These fees are included as revenue in accordance with the franchise fee
recognition policy as each additional restaurant is opened.

Under the terms of the franchise and area development agreements, the fees are non-refundable
and may be recognized as revenue should the franchisee fail to perform as agreed. Commission costs
associated with the sales of franchise and area development rights are expensed when related
revenues are recognized.

Restaurant Sales.  Revenue recognition at Company-operated restaurants is recognized as customers
pay for products at the time of sale. The earnings reporting process is covered by the Company s
internal controls and generally does not require significant management judgments and estimates.

Royalty and Advertising Fee Income.  As part of its franchise agreements, the Company earns a
percentage of each unit s gross sales (generally 4%) and records these fees as royalties. The
franchise agreements also provide that franchisees are required to pay an additional 1% of gross
sales to the National Advertising Fund (see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
These fees are recorded as earned by the Company.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.  The Company calculates royalty income each week based upon
amounts reported by franchisees and provides for estimated losses for revenues that are not likely
to be collected. The Company maintains these allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses
resulting from the inability of our franchisees and other borrowers to make required payments. If
the financial conditions of our customers or other borrowers were to deteriorate, resulting in an
impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.

Other Revenue.  Other revenue is primarily comprised of sales of proprietary food products to
franchisees and payments by certain vendors of the Company primarily as contributions to the
National Advertising Fund based upon purchasing volumes of our franchisees. These purchases by
franchisees from vendors have no specific incremental impact to costs of the Company. Revenue from
sales of proprietary food products is recognized when the products are shipped. Volume
based revenue and contributions from our vendors are recognized throughout the accounting period
based on the purchase volumes by our franchisees from these vendors. The Company also includes
other miscellaneous revenues in other revenue.

Restaurant Operating Expenses.  Restaurant operating expenses include all costs associated with the
operation of the restaurant except corporate overhead, advertising, depreciation and amortization.

Preopening costs.  The Company expenses preopening costs as incurred. Preopening costs expensed
for fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003 were approximately $39,000, $85,000 and $63,000, respectively.
Preopening costs are included in the general and administrative expenses of the Company s
statements of operations.

Advertising Costs.  Advertising costs, including production costs, are charged to expense as
incurred on the first date of the advertising period. Advertising costs expensed for fiscal years
2005, 2004 and 2003 were approximately $2,547,000, $2,652,000 and $2,349,000, respectively.

 F-20

Table of Contents   

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.  The Company accounts for the impairment of long-lived assets
under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ( SFAS ) No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment
and Disposal of Long-Lived Asset . We assess the potential impairment of long-lived assets whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. At
each balance sheet date, the Company assesses whether there has been impairment in the value of all
long-lived assets by determining whether projected undiscounted future cash flows from operations
for each restaurant, as defined in SFAS No. 144, exceed its net book value as of the assessment
date. A new cost basis is established for impaired assets based on the fair value of these assets
as of the date the assets are determined to be impaired.

No impairment charges were recorded by the Company during fiscal years 2004 or 2003; however,
in the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company incurred a non-cash charge for the effect of three
underperforming Company-operated restaurants. The Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge in
the quarter ending December 31, 2005 in the amount of $600,000 (net of a tax benefit of $386,000).
The charge consists primarily of the write down of asset values for three Company-operated
restaurants. The Company determined that an impairment charge would be required under SFAS No. 144
 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  The impairment charge results
from internal analysis which indicated that the investment for the impacted restaurants will not be
fully recovered by anticipated future cash flows. One of the restaurants closed in December 2005
and one in March 2006. The Company is currently seeking to sublease and/or sell its interest in
the third restaurant, which leases the land and building.

The taking of these impairment charges will not precipitate additional cash expenditure by the
Company, nor does the Company anticipate the future recognition of a material gain or loss on the
disposal of the assets on these respective properties.

As of January 3, 2004, the Company s accrual for future lease obligations related to closed
stores was $81,000. During 2004, lease payments of $65,000 were incurred and charged against this
reserve, and $16,000 in lease obligations were forgiven due to the negotiation of an
early buyout of future lease obligations for one of the closed stores. The Company recorded the
$16,000 in forgiven lease obligations as a reduction in restaurant operating expenses. As of
January 1, 2005, the Company had no accrual for future lease obligations related to closed stores.

During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company recorded a $15,000 lease reserve related to a
closed store as noted above, and as of December 31, 2005, the accrual for future lease obligations
for closed stores remained $15,000.

Leases.  When determining the lease term for purposes of recording depreciation and rent or for
evaluating whether a lease is capital or operating, the Company includes option periods for which
failure to renew the lease imposes an economic penalty on the Company of such an amount that a
renewal appears, at the inception of the lease, to be reasonably assured.

For operating leases, minimum lease payments, including minimum scheduled rent increases, are
recognized as rent expense on a straight line basis over the lease term as that term is defined in
SFAS No. 13, as amended, including any option periods considered in the lease term and any periods
during which the Company has use of the property but is not charged rent by a landlord ( rent
holiday ). Contingent rentals are generally based on either a percentage of restaurant sales or as
a percentage of restaurant sales in excess of stipulated amounts, and thus
are not included in minimum lease payments but are included in rent expense when incurred.
The Company has received no leasehold improvement incentives by a landlord. No individual lease is
material to the Company.

Preferred Stock.  In accordance with the provisions of the Company s Restated Certificate of
Incorporation regarding preferred stock, each share of preferred stock is convertible into one
share of common stock, at the option of the holder. As of December 31, 2005, all but 19,269 shares
of preferred stock had been converted to common stock.

Treasury Stock.  On January 2, 2001, the Company s board of directors adopted a stock repurchase
plan that allows the Company to repurchase up to 500,000 shares of its outstanding common stock.
As of the end of fiscal years 2004 and 2005, the Company had repurchased 25,000 shares of common
stock under the plan being held as treasury stock with a value of approximately $28,000. No
purchases were made during fiscal years 2005, 2004 or 2003 and no further purchases are anticipated
in the near term.

Earnings Per Share.  The Company calculates earnings per share in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 128,  Earnings per Share , which requires the presentation of
basic and diluted earnings per share. Basic earnings per share excludes dilution and is computed
by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares
outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could
occur if securities or other contracts to issue common
stock were exercised or converted into common

F-21

Table of Contents   

stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that then shared in the earnings of the
entity using the treasury stock method for stock options (Note 14).

Stock-Based Employee Compensation.  The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  and related interpretations in accounting for its plans.
Accordingly, no compensation expense is normally recognized for its stock-based compensation;
however, in January 2005, the Company recorded a non-cash charge of approximately $358,000 (net of
a tax benefit of $153,000) relating to the extension of the exercise date of certain stock options
upon the resignation of an officer/director on January 7, 2005.

Under the original stock option agreements, all of which were originally granted with an
exercise price equal to the market value of the stock at the date of grant, the vested options were
required to be exercised within 90 days after the resignation of the officer/director. The Company
modified the terms for only those options to extend the period in which the former officer/director
could exercise these stock options. The modification was to extend the exercise date until the
earliest to occur of: (i) the last day of the term of the option as specified in the applicable
option grant agreement, and (ii) one year from January 7, 2005. This modification required a
re-measurement of the intrinsic value of the stock options as of January 7, 2005, and resulted in a
non-cash charge in the form of compensation expense recorded as a general and administrative
expense for the Company during fiscal year 2005.

Had compensation cost for the Company s stock option plan been determined based on the fair
value at the grant date for awards in 2005, 2004 and 2003 under the plan consistent with the fair
value method prescribed by SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  the Company s
operating results for 2005, 2004 and 2003 would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts
indicated below (in thousands, except per share data):

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions using grants in 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively:

The pro forma results reported above will not be representative of the effect on operating
results for future years because we may make greater or less use of stock-based compensation in
future periods.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments.  At December 31, 2005, the Company did not have outstanding
any financial derivative instruments. The carrying amounts of cash and receivables approximate
fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments. The fair value of the Company s
long-term debt is estimated based on the current borrowing rates available to the Company for bank
loans with similar terms and average maturities. The fair value was approximately $11.6 million
and 5.1 million as of December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005, respectively.

F-22

Table of Contents   

NOTE 2   RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  

In October 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued FASB Staff Position
No. FAS 13-1,  Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred during a Construction Period  ( FSP 13-1 ).
FSP 13-1 requires rental costs associated with ground or building operating leases incurred during
a construction period to be recognized as rental expense. FSP 13-1 is effective for reporting
periods beginning after December 15, 2005. Retroactive application is permitted, but not required.
We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material effect on our financial position
or results of operations.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a
Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3  ( SFAS 154 ), which requires
retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements of every voluntary change in
accounting principal unless it is impracticable to do so. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting
changes and corrections of errors beginning in fiscal 2007. We do not expect the adoption of this
standard to have any effect on our financial position or results of operations.

In March 2005, the SEC released SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ( SAB 107 ). SAB 107
provides the SEC staff position regarding the application of SFAS No. 123, ( Share Based Payment
(revised 2004) ) ( SFAS 123R ). SAB 107 contains interpretive guidance relating to the interaction
between SFAS 123R and certain SEC rules and regulations, as well as the staff s views regarding the
valuation of share-based payment arrangements for public companies. SAB 107 also highlights the
importance of disclosures made related to the accounting for share-based payment transactions. We
will be incorporating SAB 107 as part of our adoption of SFAS 123R in the first quarter of 2006.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123 (Revised),  Share-Based Payment , a revision of
SFAS 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.  SFAS 123R requires the fair value measurement
of all stock-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, and
recognition of those expenses in the statement of operations. SFAS 123R is effective for annual
reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company will continue to account for
stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value method until adoption of SFAS 123R on January 1,
2006. Historically, the compensation expense recognized related to stock options under its current
method of accounting for stock issued to employees, Accounting Principles Board Opinion ( APB ) No.
25, has been minimal. We will adopt and apply the expense recognition provisions of SFAS 123R
beginning in the first quarter of 2006. The estimated impact of the adoption of SFAS 123R and SAB 107 for
fiscal year 2006, relating to prior grants only, will be approximately $56,000, net of tax.

NOTE 3   ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE  

Corporate receivables and National Advertising Fund receivables represent amounts due from
franchisees for contractual obligations and for product purchases. A summary of accounts
receivable follows (in thousands):

F-23

Table of Contents   

NOTE 4   PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT  

Summaries of property and equipment follow (in thousands):

Approximately $6.9 million and $4.9 million of the total fixed assets above relate to assets,
primarily buildings, under capital leases and held by the Company as of December 31, 2005 and
January 1, 2005, respectively. Related accumulated depreciation for these assets was approximately
$2.5 million and $1.4 million for fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively.

NOTE 5   INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURES  

As of December 28, 2002, the Company had invested a total of $200,000 for 23%-25% interests in
four joint ventures for the purpose of operating Back Yard Burgers restaurants. The Company
invested an additional $108,000 in one of the joint ventures during the 53 weeks ended January 3,
2004, for the purpose of paying down the debt of the joint venture. The Company leases the real
property from the joint ventures. Three of these leases are capital leases (see Note 8 of Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements) and one of the leases is an operating lease.

NOTE 6   ACCRUED EXPENSES  

A summary of accrued expenses follows (in thousands):

F-24

Table of Contents   

NOTE 7   DEFERRED FRANCHISE AND AREA DEVELOPMENT FEES  

In addition to offering single unit franchise agreements, the Company also promotes
franchisees to enter into area development agreements. The area development agreement grants to
the franchisee the exclusive right to develop and open a specified number of restaurants within a
limited period of time and in a defined geographic territory and thereafter to operate each
restaurant in accordance with the terms and conditions of the franchise agreement. The franchise
agreement grants an exclusive license at a specified location to operate a restaurant in accordance
with the Back Yard Burgers system and to utilize the Company s trademarks, service marks and other
rights of the Company relating to the sale of its menu items. At December 31, 2005 deferred fees
received for certain franchise and area development rights, net of commissions paid, include
amounts sold during the following years (in thousands):

NOTE 8   INDEBTEDNESS  

Long-term debt is collateralized by property and equipment with a net book value aggregating
$14,415,000. The balances consist of the following (in thousands):

The principal maturities of all long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2005, are as
follows: $966,000 in 2006, $1,664,000 in 2007, $556,000 in 2008, $484,000 in 2009, $455,000 in
2010 and $6,840,000 thereafter. These principal maturities include principal maturities for
capital leases as follows: $210,000 in 2006, $862,000 in 2007, $190,000 in 2008, $191,000 in 2009,
$139,000 in 2010 and $2,009,000 thereafter.

Scheduled interest payments on capital leases as of December 31, 2005 are as follows:
$292,000 in 2006, $273,000 in 2007, $255,000 in 2008, $229,000 in 2009, $143,000 in 2010 and
$512,000 thereafter.

On November 17, 2005 the Company borrowed $6,200,000, all of which was outstanding as of
December 31, 2005, pursuant to the terms of a Loan Agreement dated November 17, 2005 by and among
the Company and its subsidiaries and First Tennessee Bank National Association and a Secured
Promissory Note and related collateral documents (collectively, the  Loan Agreement ). Under the
terms of the Loan Agreement, the Company will make monthly installments of principal and interest
on borrowings under the Loan Agreement commencing January 1,
2006 and continuing until December 1, 2012, at which time the entire outstanding principal balance,
together with all accrued and unpaid interest, is due and payable. Amortization of the outstanding
principal balance is made on a monthly basis and begins at $19,600 per month and increases over the
term of the Loan Agreement to $30,200 per month. The unpaid principal balance of borrowings under
the Loan Agreement bear interest at a rate equal to the

F-25

Table of Contents   

one-month LIBOR plus 2%, adjusted monthly,
which was 6.35% as of December 31, 2005.

The borrowings under the Loan Agreement were used by the Company to pay the purchase price to
acquire four restaurants in Florida and to purchase the real property of four additional
restaurants, previously leased by the Company. Borrowings under the Loan Agreement are guaranteed
by the Company s subsidiaries and are secured by a pledge of all real property and improvements and
personal property of eight Company-operated restaurants located in Florida, Tennessee and Arkansas.

The Loan Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including without
limitation, covenants regarding the sale, lease or franchise of the collateral; delivery of
financial statements; maintenance of financial covenants; maintenance of books and records; payment
of taxes; maintenance of existence; compliance with law and other agreements; mergers,
acquisitions, sales and grants of security interest in assets; changes in management or ownership;
dividends; incurrence of loans and guarantees; and conduct of business. The financial covenants
relate to the Company s tangible stockholders  equity, ratio of total liabilities to stockholders 
equity, and debt coverage ratio; the most restrictive requiring the Company to maintain a debt
coverage ratio of at least 1.5 to 1.0. As of December 31, 2005, the Company s debt coverage ratio
was 2.0 to 1.0.

On February 11, 2003, the Company entered a loan agreement with First Tennessee Bank National
Association in the amount of $5,000,000. The loan agreement comprised the following three
components: (1) a $2,500,000 five-year loan with a fixed rate of 5.2%. The funds from the
five-year term loan were used to refinance approximately $2.3 million of existing notes payable to
financial institutions with an average interest rate of 6.8% and maturity dates ranging from one to
two years, (2) a $2.0 million draw down line for future expansion with a variable rate of interest
equal to the one month LIBOR rate plus a spread not to exceed 3% that is calculated based on
certain financial covenants and (3) a $500,000 revolver line with a variable rate of interest equal
to the one month LIBOR rate plus a spread not to exceed 3% that is calculated based on certain
financial covenants, the most restrictive requiring the Company to maintain a debt coverage ratio
of at least 1.5 to 1.0. As of December 31, 2005, the Company s debt coverage ratio was 2.0 to 1.0.
The effective rate of interest for the draw down line and revolver line was LIBOR plus 3%, or
7.35%, as of December 31, 2005; however, no borrowings were outstanding at the end of 2004 and 2005
for the draw down line or the revolver line. The principal balance outstanding under the five-year
loan was approximately $1,659,000 as of January 1, 2005 and $1,164,000 as of December 31, 2005.
This loan matures in March of 2008.

As of January 1, 2005, the Company had three capital lease obligations relating to three
buildings in which the Company operates restaurants. Two of these obligations were entered during
fiscal year 2001 and the third entered during fiscal year 2002. The principal balance outstanding
under these leases was approximately $1,610,000 as of January 1, 2005 and approximately $1,551,000
as of December 31, 2005. All three of these leases have an initial term of 15 years with a minimum
of four 5-year renewal options at the discretion of the Company. During fiscal year 2005, the
Company entered into another capital lease with a principal balance of $646,000, all of which was
outstanding as of December 31, 2005. The effective interest rate of this lease was approximately
10.5% and the lease has an initial term of 30 years with a minimum of two 5-year renewal options
at the discretion of the Company.

The Company also had two capital lease obligations relating to the acquisition of certain
restaurant equipment as of January 1, 2005. One of these leases was entered in September of 2000,
bearing interest of approximately 9.4%. The principal balance of this lease of approximately
$36,000 as of January 1, 2005 was paid in full during 2005. The second lease was entered in
October of 2002, bearing interest of approximately 7.9% and maturing in September of 2007. The
principal balance of this lease was approximately $149,000 as of January 1, 2005 and approximately
$99,000 as of December 31, 2005.

On October 4, 1996, the Company received a commitment (the  Commitment ) from a leasing
company for a loan transaction. The Commitment provided the Company with up to $2,000,000 and the
related interest rate
of the Commitment was approximately 14.1%. The Commitment was collateralized by certain real and
personal property to be constructed and/or acquired with the commitment proceeds. The Company had
an outstanding principal balance under this Commitment of approximately $75,000 as of January 1,
2005. This Commitment has expired and as such the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the
Commitment as of December 31, 2005.

At December 31, 2005, the Company had a guarantee of a franchisee loan relating to the
acquisition of a parcel of land and the construction of a building that is currently being operated
as a Back Yard Burgers franchised location. The original loan balance was $655,000 and the balance
as of December 31, 2005, was approximately $473,000. The term of the guarantee is through August
13, 2023, the maturity date of the loan. If the franchisee ceases to make note payments, the
Company may be required to make note payments until the collateral is

F-26

Table of Contents   

liquidated. The guarantee
provides for no limitation to the maximum potential future payments under the guarantee; however,
the estimated maximum potential future payments are approximately $473,000, which represents the
principal balance of the note payable as of the end of our fiscal year 2005. The Company currently
has no liability recorded in its financial statements for the guarantor s obligations under the
guarantee. There are no recourse provisions in the guaranty agreement; however, the Company
potential loss contingencies are minimal since the loan is collateralized with assets whose
estimated fair value is greater that the amount of debt outstanding and based on current cash flows
of the restaurant, if acquired through default, would be adequate to cover the debt payments.

NOTE 9   OPERATING LEASES  

Operating leases relate to leased land sites for Company-operated restaurants and office space
for corporate operations. All leases contain renewal options. The future minimum rental payments
under operating lease agreements as of December 31, 2005 are as follows (in thousands):

The above schedule presents minimum lease payments under the Company s operating leases. The
Company has certain operating leases that also require contingent rent in addition to the minimum
rent based on a percentage of sales. Rent expense was $1,525,000, $1,475,000, and $1,443,000 in
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

NOTE 10   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  

In July of 2002, the Company entered into a financing transaction for a new restaurant site
and building with certain officers and directors of the Company. The total value of the
transaction was $812,500. The Company recorded $490,000 as a capital lease for the construction of
the building and $322,500 as financing for the land on which the building is located. Fair market
values were used as the basis for assigning these respective values to the building and land. The
effective interest rate of the transaction was approximately 10.7%. The transaction was reviewed
and approved by the Company s Board of Directors. As of December 31, the remaining balance of the
lease was approximately $765,000.

F-27

Table of Contents   

NOTE 11   INCOME TAXES  

Income tax expense for the following tax years is comprised of (in thousands):

Deferred income taxes are provided in recognition of the future tax consequences attributable
to the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and
liabilities and their respective tax bases.

The deferred tax assets (liabilities) comprise the following (in thousands):

The ultimate realization of these assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable
income sufficient to offset the related deductions and loss carryforwards within the applicable
carryforward period. The Company evaluates the need for a valuation allowance and, based on the
weight of available evidence, has determined that it is more likely than not that certain deferred
tax assets will eventually be realized. The valuation allowance reflected
above is based on management s conclusion that it is more likely than not that certain state tax
carryforward items will expire unused.

F-28

Table of Contents   

A reconciliation of the statutory Federal and State income tax rates to the income tax
provision is as follows:

As of December 31, 2005, the Company has net operating loss carryforwards available for state
income tax reporting purposes on a consolidated basis of approximately $14 million. These net
operating loss carryforwards expire between 2006 and 2020.

NOTE 12   NATIONAL ADVERTISING FUND  

As part of the standard franchise agreement, each operating unit contributes 1% of its sales
to a National Advertising Fund. Under the terms of the agreement, at least 50% of these funds must
be spent on the creation of marketing tools, such as advertising copy for use on local radio and
television and other collateral material for the operating units. As a general rule, the funds are
not used for the purchase and placement of media advertising. The remaining funds are available
for use by the Company on such items as testing and development of new products, investigating
improvements in operating methods, or other purposes that the Company shall deem to be in the
interest of improving operations and earnings of the Company and its franchisees.

NOTE 13   STOCK OPTION AND BENEFIT PLANS  

In 1992, the Board of Directors of the Company and the shareholders authorized the adoption of
an Incentive Stock Option Plan ( ISOP ) for the Company s employees. As amended in 1993, an
aggregate of 176,969 shares of common stock may be granted under the ISOP. Options granted under
the ISOP may not be granted at a price less than the fair market value of the common stock on the
date of grant (or 110% of fair market value in the case of persons holding 10% or more of the
voting stock of the Company). The aggregate fair market value of shares for which options are
granted to any employee during any calendar year may not exceed $100,000. The options expire ten
years from the date of grant. No future grants will be made from this plan.

In May 1995, the Board of Directors of the Company and the shareholders authorized the
adoption of an Incentive Award Plan ( IAP ) for the Company s employees. An aggregate of 450,000
shares of common stock may be granted under the IAP, as amended in May 1997. Options granted under
the IAP may be designated by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors as Incentive
Stock Options or Non-Qualified Stock Options. Non-Qualified Stock Options granted under the IAP
may not be granted at a price less than par value of the common stock. Incentive Stock Options
granted under the IAP may not be granted at a price less than the fair market value of the common
stock on the date of grant (or 110% of fair market value in the case of persons holding 10% or more
of the voting stock of the Company). The aggregate fair market value of shares for which options
are granted to any employee during any calendar year may not exceed $100,000. The term of the
options shall be set by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors and no term shall
exceed a reasonable time period. In the case of Incentive Stock Options, the term shall not be
more than ten years from the date of grant. No future grants will be made from this plan.

Under the IAP, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors may award Restricted Stock
and/or a Performance Award to selected employees. A Performance Award shall mean cash bonus, stock
bonus or other
performance or incentive award that is paid in cash, stock or a combination of both. The Company
has not issued any Restricted Stock or Performance Awards.

In May 2002, the Board of Directors of the Company and the shareholders authorized the
adoption of an Equity Incentive Plan ( EIP ) for the Company s employees and directors. An
aggregate of 225,000 shares of common stock may be granted under the EIP. In 2004, the plan was
amended with shareholder approval to (i)

F-29

Table of Contents   

increase the number of shares of common stock that may be
issued under the Plan by 400,000 shares from 225,000 shares to 625,000 shares, and (ii) provide
that the Board may not materially amend the Plan without the approval of the Company s
stockholders. As of December 31, 2005, there were 326,780 options available under the EIP for
future grants. Options granted under the EIP may be designated by the Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors as Incentive Stock Options or Non-Qualified Stock Options. Non-Qualified
Stock Options granted under the EIP may be granted at a price less than fair market value of the
common stock on the grant date. Incentive Stock Options granted under the EIP may not be granted
at a price less than the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant (or 110% of
fair market value in the case of persons holding 10% or more of the voting stock of the Company).
The aggregate number of shares for which Awards are granted to any employee during any calendar
year may not exceed 35,000. The term of the options shall be set by the Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors and shall not be more than ten years from the date of grant.

Additionally, under the EIP, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors may award
Restricted Stock and/or stock appreciation rights (SARs) to selected employees. The Company has
not issued any Restricted Stock or SARs.

A summary of activity in the above option plans for the years ended December 31, 2005, January
1, 2005 and January 3, 2004 follows:

A summary of information about the Company s stock options outstanding at December 31, 2005
follows:

In May 1995, the Board of Directors of the Company and the shareholders authorized the
adoption of an Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ESPP ) for the Company s employees. An aggregate of
225,000 shares of common stock may be issued under the ESPP. Shares purchased under the ESPP shall
be sold to participants at 85% of the reported price and the maximum number of shares that can be
purchased by a participant is 1,000 shares per quarter. The ESPP shall continue in effect through
May 31, 2010. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, 4,877, 6,038 and 6,867 shares were purchased,
respectively, under the ESPP. As of December 31, 2005, a total of 131,685 shares have been
purchased under the ESPP since its inception in May 1995.

F-30

Table of Contents   

NOTE
14   EARNINGS PER SHARE  

A reconciliation of basic earnings per share to diluted earnings per share follows (in
thousands, except per share data):

Approximately 49,000 and 15,000 options to purchase the Company s common stock were not
included in the above calculation for the years 2004 and 2003, respectively, because the inclusion
of these options would have been anti-dilutive. All convertible preferred stock and stock options
are anti-dilutive and thus are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share for
2005. Income available to common stockholders for each year presented above has not been affected
by preferred dividends because the Company has not declared any dividends on its preferred shares.

NOTE 15   SUBSEQUENT EVENTS  

On January 6, 2006, the Company sold a Company-operated restaurant located in Tupelo,
Mississippi to an existing franchisee. The restaurant will continue to be operated as a Back Yard
Burgers franchised location. The Company will recognize a gain on the sale of these assets of
approximately $162,000 in the first quarter of 2006.

On March 23, 2006, the Company sold a Company-operated restaurant located in Memphis,
Tennessee to a third party. This restaurant was one of the three restaurants for which the Company
recorded an impairment charge during 2005 (see Note 1 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements). The restaurant was closed in March 2006 and will no longer be operated as a Back Yard
Burgers location. The Company incurred minimal loss on the sale of these assets which was
recognized in the first quarter of 2006.

NOTE
16   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  

Concentration of Risk.  Financial instruments which could subject the Company to concentration
of credit risk are primarily cash and cash equivalents and receivables. The Company places its
cash and cash equivalents in insured depository institutions. At December 31, 2005, the Company s
uninsured cash balance totaled $3,364,000. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its
franchisees and when necessary maintains reserves for potential credit losses on receivables, which
are not collateralized.

Legal Proceedings.  The Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims and liabilities, such
as sexual harassment, slip and fall cases, etc., which arise in the ordinary course of business and
are generally covered by insurance. In the opinion of management, the amount of the ultimate
liability with respect to those actions will not have a materially adverse impact on our financial
position or results of operations and cash flows.

Employment Agreements.  The Company is party to a three year Employment Agreement and a
Severance Agreement with the Chairman and CEO of the Company. The Company expects that, in
connection with the Company s previously announced plan to separate the positions of Chairman and
CEO and appoint a new CEO/President, the Company will enter into a new agreement under which the
current Chairman and CEO will

F-31

Table of Contents   

serve as a non-executive Chairman of the Company. The Company is
currently negotiating the terms of such agreement and expects that, when the new agreement is
completed, it will supersede the existing Employment Agreement and the Severance Agreement.

Certain other key employees have entered into severance agreements with the Company.

On February 26, 2006, the Company entered into a Separation Agreement and General Release with the
former President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, who resigned on that date. Under this
agreement, the Company is obligated to make payments of approximately $90,000 plus certain benefits
during 2006 in exchange for certain commitments of the resigned officer.

F-32

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Back Yard Burgers, Inc. 

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated
statements of operations, of changes in stockholders  equity and of cash flows present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Back Yard Burgers, Inc. and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company s management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), which require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

Memphis, Tennessee 
March 7, 2006

F-33

<EX-21>
 2
 g00597exv21.txt
 EX-21 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

EXHIBIT 21

                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Back Yard Burgers, Inc., a Delaware corporation, has three wholly-owned
subsidiaries:

(1)   Little Rock Back Yard Burgers, Inc., a Delaware corporation, which owns
      and operates Back Yard Burger restaurants in the Central Arkansas area;

(2)   Atlanta Burgers BYB Corporation, a Delaware corporation, which is
      inactive; and

(3)   BYB Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation, which operates in Delaware
      and has the rights to the company's trademarks.

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 g00597exv23w1.txt
 EX-23.1 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

EXHIBIT 23.1

            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration
statements listed below of our report dated March 7, 2006 relating to the
financial statements, which appear in the 2005 Annual Report to the Stockholders
of Back Yard Burgers, Inc., which is incorporated by reference in Back Yard
Burgers, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
- ------------------------------------

Memphis, Tennessee
March 30, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 g00597exv31w1.txt
 EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO

EXHIBIT 31.1

                    CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                             BACK YARD BURGERS, INC.

I, Lattimore M. Michael, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Back Yard Burgers, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and

c) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.

Date: March 30, 2006

/s/ Lattimore M. Michael
- -------------------------------

Lattimore M. Michael
Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 g00597exv31w2.txt
 EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO

EXHIBIT 31.2

                    CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
                             BACK YARD BURGERS, INC.

I, Michael G. Webb, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Back Yard Burgers, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and

c) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.

Date: March 30, 2006

/s/ Michael G. Webb
- -------------------------------

Michael G. Webb
Chief Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 g00597exv32w1.txt
 EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO

EXHIBIT 32.1

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Back Yard Burgers, Inc.
(the Company) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005 as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I,
Lattimore M. Michael, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to my knowledge, that:

      (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

      (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the
Company.

/s/ Lattimore M. Michael
- ----------------------------
Lattimore M. Michael
Chief Executive Officer
March 30, 2006

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 7
 g00597exv32w2.txt
 EX-32.2 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO

EXHIBIT 32.2

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Back Yard Burgers, Inc.
(the Company) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005 as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I,
Michael G. Webb, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, to my knowledge, that:

      (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

      (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the
Company.

/s/ Michael G. Webb
- ------------------------------
Michael G. Webb
Chief Financial Officer
March 30, 2006

</EX-32.2>

