<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_898777_0000899681-06-000184_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3746641</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>2407883</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>690213</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>711</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>30</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000899681-06-000184.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331173502
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000899681-06-000184
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		31
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTERPOOL INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000898777
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC [7359]
		IRS NUMBER:				133467669
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11862
		FILM NUMBER:		06730275

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		211 COLLEGE RD E
		CITY:			PRINCTON
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08540
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6094528900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		211 COLLEGE ROAD EAST
		CITY:			PRINCETON
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08540

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 DSSKiBA7nAp1O8xk84h0zwVoOjbENPrOqTmkQEKFhq5Rg3p8zcwPHl2AkbNpvfHp
 C4/gzmhyX8u1490eTr0DJQ==

 0000899681-06-000184.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 interpool-10k_030906.htm

10-K 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 
_________________ 
 
FORM 10-K 
 
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 
OR 
 
/   /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF 
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
 
COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-11862   

   INTERPOOL, INC.  
(Exact name of registrant as specified in the charter)  

DELAWARE  
(State or other jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or organization)  
  
   13-3467669  
(I.R.S. Employer 
Identification Number)  

211 COLLEGE ROAD EAST, PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY 08540  
(Address of principal executive office)      
            
            (Zip Code)  

   (609) 452-8900  
(Registrant s telephone number including area code)  

 _________________  

   SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:   

Title of Each Class   
        
    Name on Each Exchange 
       
         on which Registered  

COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.001 
 
9.25% CONVERTIBLE REDEEMABLE 
    SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES  
  NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE 
 
NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE 

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:  
NONE 
 _________________   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer,
as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes  |_|  No  |X|   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 
Yes  |_|  No  |X|   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by   Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  Yes  |X|  No  |_|   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  |_|   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer
and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b(2) of the Exchange Act. (Check one).   

Large accelerated filer  |_|  
Accelerated filer  |X|  Non-accelerated filer  |_|  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a shell company, in
Rule 12b(2) of the Exchange Act.  Yes  |_|  No  |X|  

The aggregate market value of the 10,326,072 shares of the
registrant s voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $203,836,661,
based upon the closing price of $19.74 per common share, as quoted on the New York Stock
Exchange on March 1, 2006.   

At March 1, 2006, there were 28,500,496 shares of the registrant s
Common Stock outstanding.   

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
None   

INTERPOOL, INC.    

FORM 10-K    

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Item  

Page  

PART II 
     ITEM 5. 
     ITEM 6. 
     ITEM 7. 
 
     ITEM 7A. 
     ITEM 8. 
     ITEM 9. 
 
     ITEM 9A. 
     ITEM 9B. 

MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS 
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL 
DISCLOSURE 
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
OTHER INFORMATION 
   30 
  30 
  31 
 
  32 
  82 
  86 
 
149 
149 
157 

PART I   

ITEM 1.  
  BUSINESS  

General    

   All fleet statistics including the size of the
fleet, utilization of the leasing equipment or the rental rates per day that are
set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include only our equipment,
including that portion of our equipment managed by Container Applications, Inc.
("CAI"). To the extent that our equipment is managed by CAI, the equipment is
considered fully utilized since it is not available for us to put on hire
regardless of whether all of the units are generating income. All equipment
owned by CAI or managed by CAI (with the exception of equipment owned by us and
managed by CAI) is excluded from all statistics, unless otherwise indicated. In
addition, all of our chassis assigned to chassis pools are considered fully
utilized. This exclusion of information relative to CAI, unless indicated
otherwise, provides a focus on the drivers, which are critical to our core
business. The market share, ranking and other data contained in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K are based either on our management's own estimates,
independent industry publications, reports by market research firms or other
published independent sources and, in each case, are believed by management to
be reasonable estimates. However, market share data is subject to change and
cannot always be verified with certainty due to limits on the availability and
reliability of raw data, the voluntary nature of the data gathering process and
other limitations and uncertainties inherent in any statistical survey of market
shares. As a result, you should be aware that market share, ranking and other
similar data set forth herein, and estimates and beliefs based on such data,
might not be reliable.   

  We believe we are the largest lessor of intermodal
chassis in North America and one of the world's leading lessors of intermodal
dry freight standard containers. At December 31, 2005, our chassis fleet totaled
approximately 226,000 chassis and our container fleet totaled approximately
832,000 twenty-foot equivalent units ("TEU"). From 1999 to 2004, we increased
the size of our chassis fleet at a compound annual rate of approximately 18%,
primarily as the result of the chassis fleet acquired during 2000 from the North
American Intermodal Division of Transamerica Leasing, Inc. ("TA"), and the
purchase and leaseback of approximately 20,000 chassis with a shipping line
customer during 2001 and 2002. During 2005 our chassis fleet grew by 9%. During
the period from 1999 to 2004, we increased our container fleet at a compound
annual rate of 7%. During 2005, our total container fleet increased by 3%, which
was primarily impacted by the contractual runoff of the container direct
financing lease portfolio.  

  We concentrate on leasing equipment to our customers
on a long-term basis (leases for a term greater than one year). Substantially
all of our new equipment is initially leased for terms of five to eight years
and approximately 75% of our total fleet of chassis and 77% of our total fleet
of containers are currently on long-term lease. We believe our focus on
long-term leasing has enabled us to:  

Maintain high utilization rates of our equipment fleet, consisting
of both operating and direct financing leases, which over the last five years
averaged 98% for containers and 95% for chassis; 

Achieve more stable and predictable operating results; and 

Concentrate on the expansion of our asset base through the
purchase and lease of new equipment. 

Approximately 7% of our chassis are currently leased
on a short-term basis, representing long term leases winding down, or to satisfy
customers' seasonal requirements and to provide operational flexibility,
generally at higher rates than under long-term leases. In addition, for
customers who require daily or weekly chassis rentals, we operate chassis pools
at major domestic shipping ports and rail terminals, comprising about 12% of our
chassis fleet.  

  Approximately 20% of our containers are currently
leased on a short-term basis. Our 50%-owned consolidated subsidiary, CAI,
markets our containers available for short-term leasing as part of its fleet,
facilitating redeployment of our containers at the end of long-term leases. Our
relationship with CAI maximizes utilization of our container fleet and increases
our influence in the marketplace by giving us one of the world's largest
container lessor fleets on a combined basis. At December 31, 2005, CAI had a
container fleet of approximately 597,000 TEU. Approximately 143,000 TEU were
owned by CAI (or financed under operating leases) with the remaining 454,000 TEU
managed for others. CAI's managed equipment included approximately 149,000 TEU
that were managed for us.  

  We have been involved in the business of leasing
transportation equipment since 1968. We lease our chassis and containers to a
diversified customer base of almost 600 shipping and transportation companies
throughout the world, including nearly all of the world's 25 largest
international container-shipping lines and major North American railroads. We
provide customer service and market to our customers through a worldwide network
of offices and agents. We believe one of the key factors in our ability to
compete effectively has been the long-standing relationships that we have
established with most of the world's large shipping lines and major North
American railroads. As a result of these relationships, 23 of our top 25
customers have been customers for at least 10 years.  

   March 2006 Sale of Containers   

  On March 29, 2006, our wholly owned container leasing
subsidiary, Interpool Containers Limited ("ICL"), completed the sale of
approximately 273,200 standard dry marine cargo containers, together with an
assignment of all rights of ICL under existing leases for these containers with
our customers, to a newly formed subsidiary of an investor group based in
Switzerland (the "Purchaser"), pursuant to a Sale Agreement dated March 14, 2006
(the "Sale Agreement"). Although the sale was completed on March 29, 2006, the
Sale Agreement stipulates that the Purchaser will be entitled to the net
operating income attributable to the containers sold to the Purchaser from and
after April 1, 2006. The aggregate cash purchase price paid by the Purchaser was
approximately $515.9 million. The containers sold represent approximately 74% of
the standard dry marine cargo containers owned by us at December 31, 2005 that
were in our operating lease fleet, including most of the containers managed for
us by our 50% subsidiary CAI. The sale did not include containers subject to
existing direct financing leases with customers.  

  In connection with the Sale Agreement, both we and
CAI entered into management agreements with the Purchaser (the "Management
Agreements") under which CAI agreed to perform management services on behalf of
the Purchaser with respect to the containers sold, including billing,
collecting, lease renewal, operations and disposition activities, in
consideration of a management fee equal to 4% of the net operating income
attributable to containers under long-term operating leases, and 9% of the net
operating income attributable to containers under short-term operating leases.
The Management Agreements designate ICL to serve as sub-manager of the
containers currently under long-term lease for such period of time as we may
elect, up to the respective dates when the containers are returned by their
current lessees. During that period, ICL will be entitled to receive the
management fees described above. The duration of the Management Agreements will
be ten years from the closing date, subject to extension for up to two
additional years at the Purchaser's option. Our existing agreements with CAI are
being modified to reflect these new arrangements.  

  We intend to continue to make container acquisitions
in the future and will continue to be engaged in the business of leasing
containers and related equipment to our customers under both operating and
direct financing leases. Neither the Sale Agreement nor the Management
Agreements restricts us from engaging in any business in the future or from
acquiring containers for lease to customers.  

  The Sale Agreement does not contain any provision
that would require us to repurchase the containers from the Purchaser based upon
the occurrence of future events.  

  We will use the proceeds from the sale of the
containers to reduce indebtedness, for equipment acquisitions and for other
general corporate purposes.  

  As a result of the consummation of these
transactions, we expect to report a gain on the sale of the containers to the
Purchaser during the quarter ending March 31, 2006. The after-tax amount of this
gain is expected to be approximately $61.0 million, subject to closing
adjustments and final accounting review. Effective April 1, 2006, we will no
longer record leasing revenue relating to the containers sold to the Purchaser,
but we or CAI will instead record management fee revenue relating to the sold
containers under the Management Agreements.  

    Industry Overview    

  The fundamental components of intermodal
transportation are the chassis and the container. When a container ship arrives
in port, each marine container is removed from the ship and loaded onto a
chassis or rail car. Most containers are constructed of steel in accordance with
recommendations of the International Standards Organization ("ISO"). The basic
container type is the general-purpose dry freight standard container, which
measures 20 or 40 feet long, 8 feet wide and 8 1/2 or 9 1/2 feet high. In
general, 20-foot containers are used to carry heavy, dense cargo loads (such as
industrial parts and certain food products) and can also operate in areas where
transportation facilities are less developed, while 40-foot containers are used
for lighter weight finished goods (such as apparel, electronic appliances and
other consumer goods) in areas with better developed transportation facilities.
A chassis is a rectangular, wheeled steel frame, generally 23 1/2 or 40 feet in
length, built specifically for the purpose of transporting a container. Longer
sized chassis, designed solely to accommodate domestic containers, can be up to
53 feet in length. Once mounted, the chassis and container are the functional
equivalent of a trailer. When mounted on a chassis, the container may be trucked
either to its final destination or to a railroad terminal for loading onto a
rail car. Similarly, a container shipped by rail may be transferred to a chassis
to travel over-the-road to its final destination. As the use of containers has
become a predominant factor in the intermodal movement of cargo, the chassis has
become a prerequisite for the domestic segment of the journey. A chassis seldom
travels permanently with a single container, but instead serves as a transport
vehicle for containers that are loaded or unloaded at ports or railroad
terminals. Because of differing international road regulations and
non-uniformity of international standards for chassis, chassis used in the
United States are seldom used in other countries.  

  Containers provide a secure and cost-effective method
of transporting finished goods and component parts because they are generally
freely interchangeable between different modes of transport, making it possible
to move cargo from a point of origin to a final destination without the repeated
unpacking and repacking of the goods required by traditional shipping methods.
The same container may be carried successively on a ship, rail car and chassis
and across international borders with minimal customs formalities.
Containerization is more efficient, more economical and safer in the
transportation of cargo than "break bulk transport" in which the goods are
unpacked and repacked at various intermediate points en route to their final
destination. By eliminating manual repacking operations when differing modes of
transportation are used, containerization reduces freight and labor costs. In
addition, automated handling of containers permits faster loading and unloading
and more efficient utilization of transportation equipment, thereby reducing
transit time. The protection provided by sealed containers also reduces damage
to goods and loss and theft of goods during shipment. Containers may also be
picked up, dropped off, stored and repaired at independent common user depots
located throughout the world.  

  Between 1990 and 2004, worldwide container traffic at
the world's major ports has grown at a compound annual rate of 10.4%, calculated
using the Containerisation International Yearbook of 1992 and 2006.  

  The demand for containers is influenced primarily by
the volume of international and domestic trade. In recent years, however, the
rate of growth in the container industry has exceeded that of world trade as a
whole due to several factors, including:  

The existence of geographical trade imbalances; 

The trend in outsourcing manufacturing to lower labor rate areas; 

The expansion of shipping lines including the increasing capacity
of container vessels; 

The growing reliance by manufacturers on "just-in-time" delivery
methods; and 

Increased exports by technologically advanced countries of
component parts for assembly in other countries and the subsequent
re-importation of finished products. 

In recent years, domestic railroads and trucking
lines have begun actively marketing intermodal services for the domestic
transportation of freight. We believe that this trend should serve to accelerate
the growth of intermodal transportation resulting in increased chassis and
container demand. In addition, due to the increased volume of cargo movement in
and out of railroad terminals, the railroads are reconfiguring the patterns of
container and chassis activity on the terminals. In a growing number of
locations they are requiring empty containers to be moved off of the terminal, a
process that requires additional chassis to service the additional container
movements. Railroads are also increasing the use of neutral chassis pooling
operated by leasing companies to aid efficiency.  

    The Leasing Market    

  Leasing companies own a significant portion of North
America's chassis and of the world's container fleet and we believe the balance
is owned predominantly by shipping lines and railroads. Leasing companies have
maintained this market position because container shipping lines and railroads
receive both financial and operational benefits by leasing a portion of their
equipment. The principal benefits of leasing are the following:  

To provide shipping lines and railroads with an alternative source
of financing in a traditionally capital-intensive industry; 

To enable shipping lines and railroads to expand their routes and
market shares at a relatively inexpensive cost without making a permanent
commitment to support their new structure; 

To enable shipping lines and railroads to benefit from leasing
companies' relationships with equipment manufacturers; 

To enable shipping lines and railroads to accommodate seasonal use
and/or geographic concentration, thereby limiting their capital investment and
storage costs; 

To enable shipping lines and railroads to maintain an optimal mix
of equipment types in their fleets; and 

To enable shipping lines, railroads, and terminal facilities to
operate more efficiently by offering pools of equipment at selected locations
for daily rental. 

Because of these benefits, container shipping lines
and railroads generally obtain a significant portion of their container and
chassis fleets from leasing companies, either on short-term or long-term leases.
Short-term leases provide considerable operational flexibility in allowing a
customer to pick up and drop off equipment at various locations at any time.
However, customers pay for this flexibility in the form of substantially higher
lease rates for short-term leases and drop-off charges for the privilege of
returning equipment to certain locations. Many short-term leases are "master
leases," under which a customer reserves the right to lease a certain number of
containers or chassis as needed under a general agreement between the lessor and
the lessee. Long-term leases provide the lessee with advantageous pricing
structures, but often contain an early termination provision allowing the lessee
to return equipment prior to expiration of the lease upon payment of an early
termination fee or a retroactive increase in lease payments.  

    Business Strategy    

  Our objective is to continue to expand on our market
position as a leading long-term lessor of intermodal transportation equipment.
To achieve this objective, we intend to continue to:  

Focus on our core business of North American chassis and
international marine container leasing . Our strong market positions in the
chassis and container leasing businesses provide us with economies of scale that
benefit our customers. Our equipment and operations are located worldwide to
meet our domestic and international customers' needs in a timely manner. In
addition, we are able to focus our management and financial resources to compete
effectively for equipment leasing requirements of all quantities. 

Concentrate on long-term leasing to achieve high utilization
rates and to minimize the impact of economic cycles on earnings . We
concentrate on long-term leases in order to minimize the impact of economic
cycles on our equipment leasing revenues and to achieve high utilization and
more stable and predictable earnings. The lower rate of turnover provided by
long-term leases enables us to concentrate on the expansion of our asset base
through the purchase and lease of new equipment, rather than on the repeated
re-marketing of our existing fleet. 

Acquire assets at the lowest possible cost through volume
purchases and joint venture arrangements with manufacturers . In the last
several years, China has emerged as the primary supplier of chassis for the U.S.
market. We believe our position as a significant purchaser of Chinese produced
chassis allows us to create preferential pricing programs with all major foreign
chassis suppliers. 

Re-marketing of equipment when returned by lessees . When
long-term leases reach their termination date, we make every effort to extend
the lease with the customer that originally leased the equipment, or we may
offer a lease term extension with a purchase option, resulting in the lease
becoming a direct financing lease. In addition, we may lease the equipment to
another customer for an extended term or we may make the containers available to
our 50%-owned consolidated subsidiary, CAI, which manages our containers in the
short-term marketplace. This allows us to maintain our focus on long-term
leasing while CAI expands its fleet of equipment that it manages for us and for
others, providing CAI with further economies of scale. 

Maximize residual value . At the end of the economic life of
a container, it will be sold in the second hand market place for use in less
developed trades or in the non-maritime sector for storage purposes. We maintain
relationships with wholesalers, depot operators, mini storage operators,
construction companies and others that are in the market to purchase used
containers. In addition, we can authorize CAI to sell containers, which they
have been managing for us. We typically do not sell used chassis because a
chassis usually can be re-manufactured to give it essentially a new useful
life. 

Make strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses as well
as strategic acquisitions or dispositions of asset portfolios on an
opportunistic and financially disciplined basis . We have acquired, and may
continue to acquire, equipment portfolios from time to time when attractive
opportunities arise to expand our fleet. At the same time, we consider
opportunities to sell assets on favorable terms. For example, our March 29, 2006
sale of a substantial majority of our operating lease container fleet to an
investor group enabled us to substantially reduce our secured debt, improve our
capital structure and reduce our future borrowing costs, while at the same time
ensuring that we or our subsidiary CAI would continue to collect management fee
revenue from this equipment portfolio as we will be performing ongoing
management services on behalf of the investor group. We intend to continue to
review both acquisition and disposition opportunities whenever asset prices and
market conditions are favorable. 

Work with port terminals and railroads to offer attractive chassis
pool management services and availability of equipment, to increase our chassis
pool fleet . We intend to continue to offer management services through
"Poolstat"(TM)which will forge both short-term and long-term opportunities. 

Operations    

  We offer our customers both operating leases and
direct financing leases to satisfy customer preference and demand. In most
cases, a direct financing lease provides the customer the opportunity to acquire
ownership of the equipment.  

  Lease rentals are typically calculated on a per diem
basis, regardless of the term of the lease. Our leases generally provide for
monthly billing and require payment by the lessee within 30 to 60 days after
presentation of an invoice. Generally, the lessee is responsible for payment of
all taxes and other charges arising out of use of the equipment and must carry
specified amounts of insurance to cover physical damage to and loss of
equipment, as well as bodily injury and property damage to third parties. In
addition, our leases usually require lessees to repair any damage to the chassis
and containers, other than normal wear and tear. Lessees are also required to
indemnify us against our losses arising from accidents and other occurrences
involving the leased equipment. Our leases generally provide for lessees to pay
handling charges. Our short-term leases usually assess drop-off charges upon
redelivery of containers. All of our operating leases, both short-term and
long-term, generally set forth a list of locations where lessees may return
equipment, along with any monthly quantity return limits.  

  Long-term leases provide the lessee with advantageous
pricing structures, but often contain an early termination provision allowing
the lessee to return equipment prior to expiration of the lease upon payment of
an early termination fee or a retroactively applied increase in lease payments.
We experience minimal early returns of our equipment under our long-term leases,
primarily because of the penalties involved. Additionally, customers may bear
substantial costs related to repositioning and repair upon return of the
equipment.  

  Frequently, a lessee will desire to retain long-term
leased equipment well beyond the initial lease term. In these cases, long-term
leases will be renewed at the then prevailing market rate, for one to five-year
periods or as a direct financing lease.  

   Chassis Pools . Chassis have been leased in
pooled arrangements at marine ports since the mid 1980's. Chassis pools are
locations where a lessor provides a group of chassis in a single port terminal
location to be rented on a daily basis. A customer who signs our pool agreement
and has appropriate credit is allowed to rent any chassis in the pool at any
time. The industry term for this type of chassis pool is called a "neutral"
pool, because the chassis are provided by a neutral third party rather than the
shipping lines themselves. A shipping line notifies a trucker to pick up a
chassis from the pool and then proceed to pick up the designated container for
movement. The chassis is returned by the trucker to the pool when the move is
complete. The shipping line or other customer pays only for the number of days
it uses the chassis. Pool rental rates are higher than term lease rates because
the customer pays only when the chassis is in use (and we may experience some
idle, unpaid period between uses of the chassis) and because the customer
generally does not pay for any maintenance and repair--the costs being also
bundled into the overall chassis pool rate.  

  Recently, we have established two more advanced
"neutral" chassis pools. These pools are clusters of locations in a region. We
call them "metro pools" and such pools have been established in the New York
metropolitan area, and the Houston metropolitan area. These pools differ from
traditional neutral pools in that customers are able to pick up chassis in one
location and return them to other locations that are all in the "network." The
logistics of the networking process are managed by our proprietary
"PoolStat"(TM)software, which also manages the inventory and billing functions
of the pools. This form of neutral pool is growing, and should see continued
rapid growth in the next several years.  

  In 2000, we acquired the North American Intermodal
Division of Transamerica Leasing, Inc. which included chassis pool operations at
railroad terminals. This program has continued to expand, and today we have
neutral chassis pools at over 40 rail terminals across the United States. Some
of these terminals are linking up with the metro pools to create a more
integrated marine/rail pool network.  

   Depots . We and our 50% owned consolidated
subsidiary, CAI, operate in all major containerized transportation markets in
North America and throughout the world. Depots are facilities owned by third
parties at which containers, chassis and other items of transportation equipment
are stored, maintained and repaired. For containers, we utilize independent
agents/depots to handle and inspect equipment delivered to, or returned by
lessees, as well as to store containers that are not leased and to perform
maintenance and repairs. Some agents are paid a fixed monthly retainer to defray
recurring operating expenses and some are paid a minimum level of commission
income. In addition, we generally reimburse our agents for incidental expenses.
For chassis, we have our own field staff which oversees the functions performed
by depots.  

   Logistic Support . Our worldwide network of
offices and relationships and our industry experience enables us to provide
logistic services in order to facilitate the movement of chassis and containers
to meet our customers' needs.  

   Repositioning and Other Operating Expenses . If
lessees return large numbers of equipment to a location with a larger supply
than demand, we may incur expenses in repositioning the equipment to a more
favorable location. Repositioning expenses generally range between $75 and
$1,000 per unit, depending on geographic location, distance and other factors,
and may not be fully covered by any drop-off charge collected from the lessee.
We also incur storage costs, which generally range between $0.20 and $3.18 per
unit per day depending on location and equipment type. In addition, we bear
other operating expenses associated with our chassis and containers, such as
costs of maintenance and repairs not required to be made by lessees, agent fees,
depot expenses for handling, inspection and storage, and any insurance coverage
in excess of that maintained by the lessee.  

   Maintenance, Repairs and Refurbishment . As
chassis and containers age, the need for maintenance increases. Our customers
are generally responsible for maintenance and repairs of equipment other than
normal wear and tear. For containers, when normal wear and tear or other damage
is extensive, the container is usually sold or scrapped since major repairs are
typically not cost effective. For older chassis, refurbishing and
remanufacturing involve substantial cost, but remanufacture or refurbishment
costs are substantially less than the cost of purchasing a new chassis,
therefore chassis are typically repaired or remanufactured and are not
sold.  

   Redeployment and Disposition of Containers .
Pursuant to our relationship with CAI, containers that have come off long-term
lease and have been designated for short-term leasing (not including renewals
with existing lessees) are generally provided to CAI for deployment in CAI's
fleet. For containers that continue to be owned by us and managed by CAI, CAI
pays us its average total fleet per diem rate (net of operating expenses) less a
management fee. This payment may be subject to reduction to the extent the
average age of the Interpool containers exceeds the average age of the CAI
containers. Containers made available for short-term leasing under our agreement
with CAI are reported by us as fully utilized. Containers that were previously
leased are also sold to shipping or transportation companies for continued use
in the intermodal transportation industry or to secondary market buyers, such as
wholesalers, depot operators, mini storage operators, construction companies and
others, for use as storage sheds and similar structures. The decision to sell
depends on the equipment's condition, remaining useful life and suitability for
continued leasing or for other uses, as well as prevailing local market resale
prices and an assessment of the economic benefits of repairing and continuing to
lease the equipment compared to the benefits of selling.  

  The selling price of a container will depend upon,
among other factors, mechanical or economic obsolescence, its physical condition
and location. While there have been no major technological advances in the
history of containerization that have made active equipment obsolete, several
changes in standards have decreased the demand for older equipment, such as the
increase in the standard height of containers from 8 feet to 8 1/2 feet in the
early 1970's and for 20 foot long containers, an increase in the gross weight
rating to 30 tons from 24 tons.  

   Sources of Supply . Over 90% of the world's
container production occurs in China. Historically, most chassis used in the
United States have been manufactured domestically; however, China began
producing ISO standard chassis for the U.S. market in 2003 and in 2005 accounted
for approximately 58% of new chassis placed in service.  

  When manufacturing is complete, new chassis and
containers are inspected to ensure that they conform to applicable standards of
the International Standards Organization and other international self-regulatory
bodies, as well as our internal standards.  

    Chassis Management Services    

  Our chassis customers are turning to outside service
companies to help them manage chassis that they own and lease. We offer
management services under the trademarked name "PoolStat"TM. "PoolStat"TM
aggregates chassis activity data from over 400 locations around the country and
reports on this activity, processing more than 3.5 million transactions monthly.
Customers contract with us to track their chassis nationally and determine usage
patterns, ongoing requirements, and overall fleet efficiencies. Reports are
provided using a "PoolStat"TM proprietary Internet based report generator.
"PoolStat"TM services also include the use of field staff under contract where
field management of chassis operations is involved.  

  A major chassis management service requested by our
customers is assistance in the formation and running of "cooperative chassis
pools." Cooperative chassis pools consist of chassis contributed for common use
by the shipping lines (chassis owned and/or leased and under their control) to
be pooled at marine terminals and railroad depots. These chassis pools are
different from the "neutral" chassis pools in that the shipping lines supply the
chassis rather than us supplying the chassis on a rental basis. Our "PoolStat"TM
software compiles data from each location and reports on levels of chassis
contribution as compared to the levels of chassis usage by each shipping line in
the cooperative pool. Each participating line is required to supply a fair share
of equipment relative to its usage. The management services we provide for
cooperative chassis pools often involves field staff assisting in the
repositioning of chassis as well as overseeing the maintenance and repair
process. Benefits to the participants of this program include:  

More efficient use of chassis leading to lower overall inventory
requirements at each location; 

Decreased maintenance, repair and other operating expenses; 

Improved equipment control capabilities; 

Reduced customer administrative time and expense of managing a
chassis fleet; and 

The ability to participate in cooperative pool net revenues 

By providing the "PoolStat"TM service, we are able to
forge closer relationships with our customers for both short-term and long-term
leasing opportunities. There are now approximately 238,000 chassis covered by
various Trac Lease, Inc. ("Trac Lease")/ "PoolStat"TM management contracts and
we are continuing to seek opportunities to increase its level of business. We
believe that Trac Lease is the leading provider of chassis management services
in the United States.  

    Direct Financing Leases    

  In addition to providing our customers with operating
leases for our equipment, we also offer them the option of direct financing
leases. These leases generally provide that, after a stated lease term, the
lessee has the option to purchase the equipment, typically for amounts below the
estimated fair market value of the equipment at that time. Under the terms of
these leases, the substantive risks and rewards of equipment ownership are
passed to the lessee. The lease payments are segregated into principal and
interest components similar to a loan. The interest component, calculated using
the effective interest method over the term of the lease, is recognized by us as
equipment leasing revenue. The principal component of the lease payment is
reflected as a reduction to the net investment in the direct financing
lease.  

    Marketing and Customers    

  We lease our chassis and containers to almost 600
shipping and transportation companies throughout the world, including nearly all
of the world's 25 largest international container-shipping lines and major North
American railroads. The customers for our chassis include a large number of
domestic lessees, many of which are domestic subsidiaries or branches of
international shipping lines to which we also lease containers. With a network
of offices and agents covering major ports in the United States, Europe and the
Far East, we have been able to supply containers in nearly all locations
requested by our customers. In 2005, our top 25 customers represented
approximately 76% of our consolidated net billing, with no single customer
accounting for more than 8.3%.  

    Credit Process    

  We maintain detailed credit records about our
customers. Our credit policy sets different maximum exposure limits for our
customers. Credit criteria may include, but are not limited to, customer trade
route, country, social and political climate, assessments of net worth, asset
ownership, bank and trade credit references, credit bureau reports, operational
history and financial strength.  

  We seek to reduce credit risk by maintaining
insurance coverage against customer insolvency and related equipment losses. We
maintain contingent physical damage, recovery and loss of revenue insurance,
which provides coverage upon the occurrence of a customer's insolvency,
bankruptcy or default giving rise to our demand for return of all of our
equipment. The policy covers the cost of recovering our equipment from the
customer, including repositioning cost, damage to the equipment and the value of
equipment which could not be located or was uneconomical to recover. It also
covers a portion of the equipment leasing revenues that we might lose as a
result of the customer's default (i.e., up to 180 days of lease payments
following an occurrence under the policy). Our current policy, which commenced
April 30, 2005, includes coverage of $13.0 million with a $2.0 million
deductible, per occurrence. This coverage automatically renews for at least two
additional one-year terms on each anniversary of the commencement date. All
renewals are subject to maintaining a claim experience that does not exceed
stated percentages of the policy premiums. There can be no assurance that this
or similar coverage will be available in the future or that such insurance will
cover the entirety of any loss.  

  Beginning January 31, 2006, we also maintain credit
insurance which provides complementary coverage upon the occurrence of a
customer's insolvency, bankruptcy or default giving rise to our demand for
return of all our equipment. The policy covers a portion of the equipment
leasing revenues we might lose as a result of the customer's default (i.e., up
to 90 days of lease payments that accrue prior to an occurrence under the
policy). Our current policy includes coverage of $10.0 million with a $0.2
million deductible per year, in the aggregate. The policy has a one-year term.
There can be no assurance that this or similar coverage will be available in the
future or that such insurance will cover the entirety of any loss.  

    Competition    

  There are many companies leasing intermodal
transportation equipment with which we compete. Some of our competitors have
greater financial resources than we do, or are affiliates of much larger
companies. Historically, there has been consolidation in the container leasing
business resulting from several acquisitions. During the past few years, several
chassis lessors have sold their fleets. This resulted in an environment at the
end of 2004, where only two major chassis lessors remained; Interpool and
Flexi-Van Leasing, Inc. In 2005, a third company, Transamerica Leasing, Inc.,
began offering chassis for lease.  

  In addition, the containerized shipping industry,
which we service, competes with providers of alternative methods of transporting
goods, such as non-containerized services by air, truck and rail. We believe
that in most instances these alternative methods are not as cost-effective as
the shipping of containerized cargo.  

  Because rental rates for chassis and containers are
not subject to regulation by any government authority but are determined
principally by the demand for and supply of equipment in each geographical area,
price is one of the principal methods by which we compete. In times of low
demand and excess supply, leasing companies tend to grant price concessions,
such as free days or pick-up credits, in order to keep their equipment on lease
and to avoid storage charges. We attempt to design lease packages tailored to
the requirements of individual customers and consider our long-term
relationships with customers to be important to our ability to compete
effectively. We also compete on the basis of our ability to deliver equipment in
a timely manner in accordance with customer requirements.  

    Relationship with CAI    

  We own a 50% common equity interest in CAI, which we
acquired in April 1998. The remaining 50% common equity interest in CAI is owned
by CAI's Chief Executive Officer, Hiro Ogawa. CAI owns and leases-in its own
fleet of containers and also manages, for a fee, containers owned by us and by
third parties. We entered into our operating relationship with CAI primarily to
facilitate the leasing in the short-term market of containers coming off
long-term operating lease, to gain access to new companies looking to lease
containers on a long-term basis and to realize cost efficiencies from the
operation of a coordinated container lease marketing group. For containers
managed by CAI for us in the short-term market, we earn the net operating income
and pay CAI a fee for managing our equipment and leasing it on our behalf. The
management fee calculation is based on the average daily net operating income of
CAI's fleet of owned, leased-in and managed containers (including the portion of
CAI's fleet that consists of our equipment) for each day such managed containers
are part of the CAI fleet. The marketing group, which is organized as a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Interpool, is responsible for soliciting container
lease business for both Interpool and CAI, including long-term operating and
direct financing lease business and short-term lease business under master lease
agreements. Pursuant to our agreements with CAI, we have a right to purchase all
long-term operating and direct financing lease business generated by the
marketing group, subject to offering to CAI, at cost, 10% of this long-term
operating and direct financing lease business plus an additional portion of the
long-term lease business to be mutually agreed with CAI for sale by CAI to
investors for whom CAI manages containers. By mutual agreement, CAI has
purchased for its own account and for the account of third party investors
long-term operating and direct financing lease business the marketing group has
generated in excess of 10% of the marketing group's long-term operating and
direct financing lease business. Our existing agreements with CAI also
contemplated that we would pay CAI an annual "Earn Out" fee in consideration for
the transfer of CAI's marketing employees to the marketing group, but, to date,
by mutual agreement, this provision has been waived. In addition, on occasion,
we have entered into transactions with CAI pursuant to which we have acquired
equipment, and the related leases, from CAI on terms that resulted in a profit
for CAI. Such equipment, as well as certain other containers purchased from time
to time, are currently managed for us by CAI for a fee based upon the actual net
operating income earned by such containers, or in certain instances, for a flat
fee.  

  In April 2004, we reached an agreement with CAI
resolving a number of open matters relating to the various agreements between
the two companies, including appropriate remedial compensation for age
differences between our containers managed by CAI and the balance of CAI's
managed fleet, pursuant to certain provisions of the Operating and
Administration Agreement between us and CAI (the "CAI Agreement"). Pursuant to
this agreement with CAI, during 2004 we paid CAI $2.0 million for resolution of
these open issues through February 29, 2004. The impact of this agreement was
recorded by us during the three months ended March 31, 2004, as a reduction in
consolidated pre-tax income of $1.0 million ($0.6 million net of tax). As a
result of this agreement, we anticipate that the earnings related to certain of
our containers managed by CAI will be reduced to the extent the average age of
such containers exceeds the average age of all other containers in CAI's
fleet.  

  In connection with the acquisition of our 50% common
equity interest in CAI in 1998, we loaned CAI $33.7 million under a subordinated
note agreement, which is collateralized by all containers owned by CAI as of
April 30, 1998 or thereafter acquired, subject to the priority security interest
lien of CAI's senior credit facility, except for certain excluded collateral.
Interest on this subordinated note is at an annual fixed rate of 10.5% and is
payable quarterly. The original repayment terms required mandatory quarterly
principal payments of $1.7 million beginning July 30, 2003 and ending on April
30, 2008. The subordinated note was subject to certain financial covenants and
was cross-collateralized with CAI's senior credit facility, subject to the terms
of a subordination agreement.  

  On June 27, 2002, CAI entered into an amended $110.0
million senior revolving credit agreement with a group of financial
institutions. To facilitate the closing of this new credit facility, we agreed
to extend the repayment terms of our subordinated note so as to require
mandatory quarterly principal payments of $1.7 million beginning July 30, 2006
and ending on April 30, 2011. We also agreed to modify certain financial
covenants in the subordinated note. Interest on the subordinated note continues
to accrue at an annual fixed rate of 10.5%, payable quarterly. The subordinated
note continued to be cross-collateralized with CAI's senior credit agreement,
subject to the terms of an amended and restated subordination agreement. In
connection with these modifications, Mr. Ogawa, CAI's Chief Executive Officer
and the owner of the 50% common equity interest in CAI that we do not own,
agreed that we would have the right to designate a majority of the members of
CAI's board of directors, so long as the subordinated note remained outstanding.
As a result of these transactions and gaining a majority position on CAI's
board, our financial statements have included CAI as a consolidated subsidiary
since June 27, 2002.  

  On April 28, 2005, in connection with the first
advance under a new secured revolving credit facility established by CAI, CAI
repaid $15.2 million of the amounts owed to us under the outstanding $33.7
million subordinated note held by us. This repayment returned the subordinated
note to the original payment schedule in effect before it was modified in 2002.
The remaining balance of the subordinated note, totaling $16.8 million as of
December 31, 2005, is required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments of
approximately $1.7 million through April 30, 2008. In addition, the financial
covenants associated with this subordinated note were also amended.  

  As noted above, in connection with the June 2002
modifications to our subordinated note, Mr. Ogawa agreed that, until the
subordinated note is paid in full, we would have the right to designate a
majority of the members of CAI's board of directors. Since the time this
agreement was entered into, CAI's board has consisted of five directors, three
of whom were appointed by us and two of whom were appointed by Mr. Ogawa. CAI
management has advised us that CAI may wish to repay the remaining balance of
the subordinated note during 2006 and CAI has obtained the consent of the
lenders under its new secured revolving credit facility to make such repayment.
Under the terms of the amended Shareholder Agreement between us and Mr. Ogawa,
this repayment would result in CAI's board of directors being comprised of an
equal number of directors appointed by us and by Mr. Ogawa. Any such change in
the composition of CAI's board of directors would require that we no longer
consolidate CAI in our financial statements from and after the date of such
change. Instead, we would record our investment in CAI under the equity method
of accounting. We have had preliminary discussions with Mr. Ogawa about
potential modifications to the Shareholder Agreement that would preserve our
majority position on CAI's board of directors for some period of time after a
repayment of the subordinated note. To date, no agreement has been reached on
any such modifications, nor has CAI made a firm decision to repay the
subordinated note prior to its final maturity in April 2008.  

  In May 1998, CAI granted options to certain of its
key employees to purchase Series A cumulative preferred stock of CAI. Each of
these individuals was given the opportunity to exercise these options by
investing the after tax proceeds from stock appreciation rights previously
granted to these employees. In addition, CAI provided a full recourse loan to
finance the remaining portion of the exercise price. This loan was in the form
of a promissory note that was secured by a pledge of the stock acquired through
the exercise of the options. The options were exercised in May 1998 at an
exercise price of $496.11 per share and, at December 31, 2005, there were 1,726
outstanding shares of this CAI preferred stock.  

  So long as the preferred stock has not yet been
redeemed by CAI or the employee, at such time as a liquidity event takes place,
defined as an initial public offering or a sale to parties other than Mr. Ogawa
or Interpool, the preferred stock will be converted into an equal number of
shares of CAI's common stock. This preferred stock is subject to variable
accounting in CAI's financial statements for the portion of the preferred stock
acquired using the proceeds of the loan from CAI. During the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2004, the management of CAI concluded that there was no
change to the valuation of the preferred shares of CAI and, therefore, no stock
compensation charge
was recorded in CAI's financial statements for those periods.
In the fourth quarter of 2005, CAI determined that a change in the valuation of
its preferred shares had, in fact, taken place during these periods as well as
for the year ended December 31, 2005. We have
determined that the effect of this previously undetected error related to CAI's
valuation of its preferred stock and corresponding stock compensation
charge is immaterial to our consolidated financial
statements for the years ended December 31,2003 and 2004. In order to properly
reflect these adjustments for the three years ended December 31, 2005, we
recorded additional compensation expense of 4.5 million (2.2 million, net of
minority interest income) during the fourth quarter of 2005.  

  During the third quarter of 2005, pursuant to the
terms of the Shareholder Agreement we entered into with Mr. Ogawa when we
acquired our 50% common equity interest in CAI in 1998, Mr. Ogawa notified us
that he was exercising his contractual right to request an independent valuation
of CAI. An investment banking firm was engaged by CAI's board of directors to
conduct this valuation and the valuation was completed during the fourth quarter
of 2005. We advised Mr. Ogawa that, after review of this valuation, we had
decided not to exercise our right under the Shareholder Agreement to make an
offer to acquire his 50% common equity interest in CAI for an amount equal to
his percentage interest of the fair value of CAI as determined by the investment
banking firm. The Shareholder Agreement provides that if we do not elect to make
such an offer, Mr. Ogawa has a right to require CAI to take the necessary steps
to effect an initial public offering to sell his equity, with all costs
associated with any such initial public offering of CAI being borne by CAI. Mr.
Ogawa has requested that CAI proceed with the steps necessary to register his
equity interest in CAI for sale by him in an initial public offering. In
response to Mr. Ogawa's request, CAI has engaged an investment banking firm to
manage an initial public offering. CAI and its investment bankers, together with
their advisors, have commenced preparation of an S-1 registration statement for
filing with the SEC sometime during 2006. In the event that CAI's initial public
offering is consummated, CAI would become a public company. In connection with
CAI's anticipated public offering, we expect to consider potential changes to
the terms of the existing agreements between us and CAI and to the terms of the
Shareholder Agreement between us and Mr. Ogawa. To date, however, no agreement
has been reached regarding any such changes. In addition, we are currently
evaluating the impact of CAI's initial public offering on our current 50% common
equity position in CAI. CAI's ability to complete a public offering will depend
upon a number of factors, including market conditions, industry conditions and
developments in CAI's business. Accordingly, there is no assurance that CAI's
public offering will be completed within the anticipated time frame or at
all.  

  For additional information about CAI, see Note 11 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

    Other Business Operations    

  In addition to our chassis and container leasing
operations, we also receive revenues from the leasing of approximately 274
freight rail cars to railroad companies through our Illinois based Railpool
division. Also, our former computer leasing segment consisted of two majority
owned subsidiaries, Microtech Leasing Corporation ("Microtech") and Personal
Computer Rental Corporation ("PCR"). During the third quarter of 2001, we
adopted a plan to exit this segment. We liquidated the assets of Microtech as of
March 31, 2004. PCR ceased active operations and began to liquidate in the first
quarter of 2003. At March 31, 2004, all of the assets of PCR were
liquidated.  

  On occasion, we have entered into joint ventures with
shipping lines and other third parties, primarily for the purpose of funding the
construction of facilities in Asia to manufacture chassis and other equipment.
In general, we have agreed to make a specified financial contribution of capital
to these joint ventures in return for a minority equity interest and the right
to representation on the entity's board of directors. It is anticipated that we
would be a major purchaser of equipment manufactured by these joint ventures.
Through December 31, 2005, our equity commitments to such joint ventures have
totaled $4.4 million, of which $0.5 million has been funded. In certain cases,
we have agreed to provide technical information and assistance in setting up the
production lines and providing certain specified services in connection with the
marketing of the equipment produced by the factories. We view our participation
in these joint ventures as advantageous because they provide us with a stable
source of equipment for lease to customers. See Chassis Distribution Agreement
in Liquidity and Capital Resource section of Item 7.  

    Employees    

  As of December 31, 2005, excluding CAI's 60
employees, we had 254 employees, 234 of whom were based in the United States.
None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We
believe our employee relations are good.  

    Website Access    

  Our website address is www.interpool.com. You may
obtain free electronic copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those
reports under the heading "Financial Information." These reports are available
on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file
them with the SEC. You can also go to our website to obtain copies of our
corporate governance guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and
charters for our Audit, Compensation and Corporate Governance Committees. Copies
of all of these documents can also be obtained, free of charge, upon written
request to the Secretary, Interpool, Inc., 211 College Road East, Princeton, NJ
08540.  

ITEM 1A.  
  RISK FACTORS   

Investors in Interpool should consider the following
risk factors as well as the other information contained herein.  

   We are subject to the cyclicality and
uncertainties of world trade which may impair demand for our chassis and
containers.   

  The demand for our chassis and containers primarily
depends upon levels of world trade of finished goods and component parts.
Recessionary business cycles, political conditions, the status of trade
agreements and international conflicts may have an impact on our operating
results. The demand for leased chassis also depends upon domestic economic
conditions and volumes of exports to the United States which are likely to be
adversely affected if the value of the United States dollar declines. When the
volume of world trade decreases, our business of leasing chassis and containers
may be adversely affected as the demand for chassis and containers is reduced. A
substantial decline in world trade may also adversely affect our customers,
leading to possible defaults and the return of equipment prior to the end of a
lease term.  

   We operate in a highly competitive industry, which
may adversely affect our results of operations or ability to expand our
business.   

  The transportation equipment leasing industry is
highly competitive. We compete with many domestic and foreign leasing companies,
as well as container and chassis manufacturers, banks offering financing leases
and promoters of equipment ownership and leasing as an investment in the U.S.
and abroad. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources and
access to capital than we do. From time to time, the industry may have large
under-utilized inventories of chassis and containers, which could lead to
significant downward pressure on pricing and margins. In addition, if the
available supply of intermodal transportation equipment were to increase
significantly as a result of, among other factors, new companies entering the
business of leasing and selling intermodal transportation equipment, our
competitive position could be adversely affected. New entrants attracted by the
projected high rate of containerized trade growth, together with the already
highly competitive nature of our business, could put significant downward
pressure on lease rates and margins and adversely affect our ability to achieve
our growth plans. The expansion of such competition has, at times, led to
overproduction of new containers and overbuying by shipping lines and leasing
competitors and could continue to impact lease rates and utilization in the
future. Certain of our leasing industry competitors have shifted their
strategies toward an increase in long-term leasing of shipping containers which
has also added to competitive pressures.  

   Potential customers may decide to buy rather than
lease chassis and containers.   

  We, like other suppliers of leased chassis and
containers, are dependent upon decisions by shipping lines and other
transportation companies to lease rather than buy their equipment. If major
shipping lines elect to construct their own facilities to manufacture containers
or chassis, or to make investments in such facilities, these customers may
decide to own a larger portion of their equipment fleets. In addition, our
ability to achieve our strategy of expanding our business in response to
customer demand for long-term leasing would be adversely affected if our
customers shifted to more short-term leasing over long-term leasing. Most of the
factors affecting the decisions of our customers are outside our control.
Operating costs such as storage and repair and maintenance costs also increase
as utilization decreases.  

   Pending governmental investigations may adversely affect us.   

  Following our announcement in July 2003 that our
Audit Committee had commissioned an internal investigation by special counsel
into our accounting, we were notified that the SEC had opened an informal
investigation of Interpool. As we anticipated, this investigation was converted
to a formal investigation later in 2003. We have fully cooperated with this
investigation. During 2003 and 2004, the New York office of the SEC received a
copy of the written report of the internal investigation and received documents
and information from us, our Audit Committee and certain other parties pursuant
to SEC subpoenas. During late 2003, we were also advised that the United States
Attorney's office for the District of New Jersey received a copy of the written
report of the internal investigation by our Audit Committee's Special Counsel
and opened an investigation focusing on certain matters described in the report.
We were informed that Interpool was neither a subject nor a target of the
investigation by the U.S. Attorney's office. We have not had any communications
with either the SEC or the U.S. Attorney's office relating to their respective
investigations since 2004. We do not have any information regarding the current
status of either of these investigations. Therefore, we cannot predict the final
outcome of either of these investigations and cannot be assured that they may
not result in the taking of some action that may be adverse to us.  

   Our internal controls and procedures may require
further improvements.   

  As indicated elsewhere in this Form 10-K report, our
management's review of our internal controls over financial reporting, using the
framework defined by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission ("COSO"), has indicated that certain internal control deficiencies
existed as of December 31, 2005 which constitute "significant deficiencies" or
"material weaknesses" as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States) ("PCAOB"). As disclosed in our prior SEC filings, we have
previously concluded that other internal control deficiencies identified by our
external auditors and by management, as well as through the investigation by the
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, constituted "material weaknesses" or
"significant deficiencies" as defined by the PCAOB as of December 31, 2004.
Based on remedial actions taken during 2005 and the testing of our key financial
controls that has been completed, our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has concluded that some, but not all, of
the previously identified deficiencies and weaknesses had been corrected as of
December 31, 2005. However, other "significant deficiencies" and/or "material
weaknesses" in our controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005
were identified, as disclosed in Item 9A of this 2005 Form 10-K
report.  

  We believe that actions to be implemented in 2006 and
beyond will remediate the significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
our internal controls and information systems identified in Item 9A of this 2005
Form 10-K Report and that, after the required remediation, our processes and
systems of internal controls will be effective. However, we cannot give
assurances that any of the previously identified material weaknesses or
significant deficiencies have been fully remediated or that any remaining
weaknesses or deficiencies in internal controls will be effectively remediated
in the future. Additional internal control weaknesses or deficiencies may also
be identified from time to time in the future. Any material internal control
weaknesses or deficiencies could materially affect our financial
results.  

   Sustained Asian economic instability could reduce
demand for leasing.   

  A number of the shipping lines to which we lease
containers are entities domiciled in several Asian countries. In addition, many
of our customers are substantially dependent upon shipments of goods exported
from Asia. From time to time, there have been economic disruptions, financial
turmoil and political instability in this region. If similar events were to
occur in the future, they could adversely affect these customers and lead to a
reduced demand for leasing of our containers or otherwise adversely affect
us.  

   Terrorist attacks or hostilities could adversely
affect us.   

  Potential acts of terrorism or hostilities may affect
the ports and depots at which we and our customers operate as well as our other
facilities or those of our customers and suppliers. In addition, any such
incident or similar act of violence could lead to a disruption to the worldwide
ports system and flow of goods or contribute to economic instability in other
respects. To the extent any such event were to result directly or indirectly in
a reduction in the level of international trade and reduced demand for
transportation equipment, our business would be adversely affected. In addition,
if one of our containers were to be involved in a terrorist attack, our customer
agreements and insurance policies might not be adequate to fully protect us from
any liability. We also may be subject to domestic or international regulations
designed to prevent the use of containers for international terrorism or other
illegal activities. As such regulations develop and change, we may incur
increased compliance or related competitive costs affecting existing inventories
or future containers that are acquired which could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

   Environmental liability may adversely affect our
business and financial situation.   

  Like other companies, we are subject to federal,
state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
environment, including those regulating the use and disposal of hazardous
substances. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and
third-party claims for property damage and personal injury, as a result of
violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations in
connection with our current or historical operations. Under some environmental
laws in the United States and certain other countries, the owner of a leased
container may be liable for environmental damage, cleanup or other costs in the
event of a spill or discharge of material from a container without regard to the
owner's fault. While we maintain insurance and require lessees to indemnify
against certain losses, such insurance and indemnities may not cover or be
sufficient to protect us against losses arising from environmental
damage.  

  Many countries, including the United States,
restrict, prohibit or otherwise regulate the use of chlorofluorocarbon compounds
("CFCs") due to their ozone depleting and global warming effects. CFCs have
historically been used in the manufacture and operation of older refrigerated
containers, including some of our refrigerated containers. Regulation of CFCs or
other refrigerants may become stricter in the future, and it may become
necessary for us to retrofit any refrigerated containers in our fleet using CFCs
with non-CFC refrigerants at substantial cost to us. The replacement refrigerant
used in our new refrigerated containers also may become subject to similar
regulation. In addition, refrigerated containers that are not retrofitted may
command lower prices in the market for used containers once we retire these
containers from our fleet. At December 31, 2005, 3% of our fleet is composed of
refrigerated containers.  

   Defaults by our customers could adversely affect
our business by decreasing revenues and increasing storage, collection and
recovery expenses.   

  We are dependent upon our lessees continuing to make
lease payments for our equipment. A default by a lessee may cause us to lose
revenues for past services and incur expenses for storage, collection and
recovery. Repossession from defaulting lessees may be difficult and more
expensive in jurisdictions whose laws do not confer the same security interests
and rights to creditors and lessors as those in the United States and in
jurisdictions where recovery of equipment from the defaulting lessees is more
cumbersome.  

  If a lessee defaults, we may be unable to re-lease
recovered equipment for comparable rates or terms. Our reserves for anticipated
losses may increase over historical levels or not be sufficient to cover actual
losses, or our earnings may be adversely affected by customer
defaults.  

   Changes in market price, availability or
transportation costs of equipment manufactured in China could adversely affect
our ability to maintain our supply of containers.   

  Changes in the political, economic or financial
condition of China, which would increase the market price, availability or
transportation costs of containers or chassis, could adversely affect our
ability to maintain our supply of equipment. China is currently the largest
container producing nation in the world and a significant supplier of chassis.
We currently purchase substantially all of our containers and a majority of our
chassis from manufacturers in China. In the event that it were to become more
expensive for us to procure containers and chassis in China or to transport
these containers or chassis at a low cost from China to the locations where they
are needed, because of a shift in U.S. trade policy toward China, increased
tariffs imposed by the United States or other governments, a significant
downturn in the political, economic or financial condition of China, or for any
other reason, we would have to seek alternative sources of supply. We may not be
able to make alternative arrangements quickly enough to meet our equipment
needs, and the alternative arrangements may increase our costs.  

   We are controlled by a limited number of
stockholders; this concentrated ownership could discourage acquisition bids for
us that are not supported by our majority stockholders or limit the price
investors will be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common
stock.   

  As of March 1, 2006, approximately 66.7% of our
common stock is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, in the aggregate by
Martin Tuchman, Warren L. Serenbetz, Jr., Raoul J. Witteveen and Arthur L.
Burns, together with certain members of their immediate families and certain
related entities. Each of Messrs. Tuchman, Serenbetz and Burns is a member of
our Board of Directors and Mr. Tuchman and Mr. Burns are executive officers. Mr.
Witteveen is a former director and executive officer. These individuals, either
directly or indirectly, have the ability to elect all of the members of our
Board of Directors and to control the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote
of our stockholders. Our concentrated ownership may discourage acquisition bids
for us that are not supported by our majority stockholders. This concentration
of ownership could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the
future for shares of our common stock.  

   We have relationships with and have entered into
transactions with members of our management and affiliated entities that may
involve inherent conflicts of interest.   

  Various relationships exist and various transactions
have been entered into between or among us, on the one hand, and members of our
management and affiliated entities, on the other hand. Some of these
relationships and transactions may involve inherent conflicts of interest. See
Item 13, "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" and Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.  

   We are dependent on the knowledge and experience
of members of our senior management; loss of these members could adversely
affect our ability to formulate and achieve our strategy and pursue new business
initiatives.   

  Our growth and continued profitability are dependent
upon, among other factors, the abilities, experience and continued service of
certain members of our senior management, including Martin Tuchman, our Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Tuchman holds, either directly or indirectly, a
substantial equity interest in Interpool (approximately 30% at March 1, 2006)
and also is a director of Interpool. Additionally, other members of our senior
management possess knowledge of, and extensive experience in, the intermodal
transportation industry. We rely on this knowledge and experience in our
strategic planning and in our day-to-day business operations. If one or more
members of our senior management were to resign or otherwise be unavailable to
serve us, the loss could adversely affect our ability to formulate and achieve
our strategy and pursue new business initiatives. In addition, we do not
currently have employment agreements with all of our executive
officers.  

   The volatility of the residual value of chassis
and containers upon expiration of their leases could adversely affect our
operating results.   

  Although our operating results primarily depend upon
equipment leasing, our profitability is also affected by the residual values
(either for sale or re-leasing) of our chassis and containers upon expiration of
their leases. These values, which can vary substantially, depend upon, among
other factors,  

The maintenance standards observed by lessees; 

Expenses associated with off-hire, storage, repair, repositioning
and re-marketing of returned equipment; 

Our ability to negotiate lease extensions and remarket equipment
profitably, which can be substantially impacted by the timing and volume of
off-hired equipment; 

The current cost of comparable new equipment; 

Changes in lessees' requirements for leased containers; 

The availability of used equipment; 

Rates of inflation; 

Prevailing market conditions, including used equipment prices at
the locations of equipment returns; 

The cost to remanufacture chassis; 

The costs of materials and labor; and 

The obsolescence of certain types of equipment in our fleet. 

Most of these factors are outside of our control.
Operating leases are subject to greater residual risk than direct financing
leases.  

   A recharacterization of our repatriation plan by
the IRS could increase our tax liability.   

  On December 27, 2005, Interpool, Inc.'s wholly-owned
Barbados subsidiary, Interpool Limited, made a distribution to Interpool, Inc.
of approximately $305.0 million (the "Distribution"), as part of a plan approved
by Interpool, Inc.'s Board of Directors to repatriate accumulated and current
earnings and profits of Interpool Limited which previously had been considered
permanently reinvested outside the United States. Pursuant to the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004 (the "AJCA"), the Distribution was subject to U.S. federal
tax at a reduced rate of approximately 5.25%.  

  In connection with our repatriation plan, on December
14, 2005, effective as of close of business on November 30, 2005, Interpool
Limited, which operated our international container leasing business,
transferred substantially all of its operating assets and related liabilities to
Interpool Containers Limited ("ICL"), a newly formed Barbados company which is a
subsidiary of Interpool, Inc. ICL now operates our international container
leasing business.  

  We received a tax opinion from outside tax counsel
which concluded, based on certain assumptions and representations (including
representations regarding the reinvestment of proceeds of the Distribution),
that the Distribution should qualify for the special 5.25% federal tax rate as
provided for in the AJCA. In addition, we received a second tax opinion from
another law firm confirming their agreement with the overall conclusions reached
in the original opinion. In the event the IRS took a contrary view, and
successfully challenged our tax positions pertaining to our repatriation plan,
our tax liability could increase significantly.  

   Loss of our eligibility for tax benefits under the
U.S.-Barbados tax treaty could increase our tax liability.   

  Through December 31, 2005, we claimed tax benefits
under an income tax convention between the United States and Barbados (the "Tax
Treaty"), the jurisdiction in which our subsidiaries, Interpool Limited and, as
discussed above, ICL, operate our international container leasing business, were
incorporated. Specifically, under the Tax Treaty, any profits of Interpool
Limited and ICL from leasing of containers used in international trade generally
are taxable only in Barbados and not in the United States.  

  Interpool Limited and ICL are entitled to the
benefits of the Tax Treaty for each year by satisfying the two-pronged test to
the "limitation of benefits" provision: (1) more than 50% of the shares of
Interpool Limited and ICL were owned, directly or indirectly, by any combination
of individual United States residents or citizens (the "51% U.S. ownership
test"), and (2) its income was not used in substantial part, directly or
indirectly, to meet liabilities to persons who were not residents or citizens of
the United States (the "base erosion test"). We believe Interpool Limited and
ICL passed both of these tests through December 31, 2005.  

  For periods beginning on or after January 1, 2005, in
addition to having to satisfy the 51% U.S. ownership and base erosion tests
described above, Interpool Limited and ICL are only eligible for the Tax Treaty
benefits with respect to its container rental and sales income if Interpool,
Inc. is listed on a "recognized stock exchange" and Interpool, Inc.'s stock is
"primarily" and "regularly" traded on such exchange.  

  During April 2004 Interpool, Inc. was de-listed by
the New York Stock Exchange. However, on January 13, 2005 Interpool, Inc. was
again listed, and began trading, on the New York Stock Exchange. We believe this
listing and its current trading volume satisfies the "primarily" and "regularly"
traded requirements of the Tax Treaty, that Interpool Limited qualified again
for benefits under the Tax Treaty on January 13, 2005, and that ICL qualified
under the Tax Treaty when it began operations as of close of business on
November 30, 2005. We have estimated there should be no U.S. current tax expense
for the period from January 1, 2005 to January 12, 2005, when Interpool Limited
was not eligible for the Tax Treaty.  

  There is no assurance we will continue to satisfy the
"primarily" and "regularly" traded, 51% U.S. ownership or base erosion tests of
the Tax Treaty. In addition, at some future date the Tax Treaty could be further
modified in a manner adverse to us or repealed in its entirety, or we might not
continue to be eligible for these tax benefits.  

  As companies resident in Barbados, Interpool Limited
and ICL are required to file tax returns in Barbados and pay any tax liability
to Barbados. Prior to the third quarter of 2005, no Barbados tax returns had
been prepared or filed for Interpool Limited for any period subsequent to its
1997 tax year. As of September 30, 2005, all previously outstanding Barbados tax
returns (1998-2004 tax years) were filed. There was no underpayment of taxes,
interest or penalties (other than a nominal late filing penalty) with the filing
of these returns.  

  A substantial portion of our future cash flows will
be needed to service our indebtedness.  

  Historically, we have made, and continue to make, use
of indebtedness to finance our equipment leasing activities and for other
general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2005, our total outstanding
indebtedness was approximately $2.0 billion. We anticipate that we will incur
additional indebtedness in the future. We are required to dedicate a substantial
portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the
amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures,
including fleet growth, and other corporate requirements. Should our cash flow
be insufficient to service our debt obligations, we would be required to seek
additional funds to meet our obligations. Additional funds, if needed, might not
be available to us or, if available, might not be made available on terms
acceptable to us.  

  Our business is highly dependent upon the
availability of capital. In particular, the growth and replacement of our fleet
through new equipment purchases or acquisitions, as well as the refinancing of
our existing debt, will require further debt or equity financings. There is no
assurance that interest rates and advance rates on any future financings will be
as attractive as those experienced in the past. If we raise additional funds by
issuing equity securities, further dilution to the existing stockholders may
result.  

   Increases in interest rates may increase our debt
service obligations and adversely affect our liquidity.   

  After considering borrowings payable under floating
rate agreements which have been converted to fixed rate debt through the use of
interest rate swap agreements, approximately 20% of our borrowings at December
31, 2005 were at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk.
At December 31, 2005, we also had approximately $404.7 million of unrestricted
cash and marketable securities on hand. As interest rates rise, our debt service
obligations increase. A significant rise in interest rates could have a material
adverse effect on results of operations in future periods. For further
discussion on interest rate risk see Item 7A.  

   The price of our common stock may fluctuate.   

  The market price for our common stock has fluctuated
in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate
substantially in the future. These factors include:  

Announcements of developments related to our business; 

Announcements of strategic acquisitions or dispositions of assets; 

Exercise of outstanding Options or Warrants; 

Fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; 

Sales of substantial amounts of our shares into the marketplace; 

General conditions in our industry or the worldwide economy; 

A shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities
analysts' expectations; 

Changes in analysts' recommendations or projections; and 

An outbreak of war or hostilities. 

The current market price of our common stock may not
be indicative of future market prices.  

   Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could
affect our profitability.   

  The majority of our revenues and costs are billed in
U.S. dollars. Most of our non-U.S. transactions are individually of small
amounts and in various denominations and thus are not suitable for
cost-effective hedging. In addition, almost all of our container and chassis
purchases are paid in U.S. dollars. There can be no assurance that exchange rate
fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operation and financial
position.  

   Our future business prospects could be adversely
affected by consolidation within the container shipping industry.   

  Recently there have been several large shipping line
acquisitions that have resulted in some consolidation within the container
shipping industry. This has resulted in a reduction of the number of large
shipping lines and also in an increase in concentration of business that we have
with the combined groups. Our future business prospects could be adversely
affected if there was a continued reduction in the number of shipping lines in
the world. In addition, due to concentration risk, we might decide to limit the
amount of business exposure we have with any single combined group if the
exposure was deemed unacceptable.  

   Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit
a takeover and limit our growth opportunities, which could cause the market
price of our shares to decline.   

  Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended
and Restated By-laws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that
could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a
stockholder might consider favorable. These provisions apply even if the change
may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. If a change of control or
change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our shares
could decline. In addition, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and
Amended and Restated By-laws contain provisions that may discourage acquisition
bids for Interpool.  

   Potential Initial Public Offering of CAI   

  Our 50% subsidiary, CAI, has engaged an investment
banking firm to manage an initial public offering of CAI's common stock and a
registration statement is currently being prepared for filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission during 2006. CAI's ability to complete a
public offering will depend upon a number of factors, and there can be no
assurance that CAI's public offering will be completed within the anticipated
time frame or at all. In the event CAI was to become a public company, CAI would
become subject to the requirements of the federal securities laws and the costs
associated with compliance therewith. In addition, in the event that CAI
ultimately completes its public offering, the relationship between us and CAI
could present additional conflicts of interest for us as well as potential
liability under the securities laws for us and our representatives who serve on
CAI's board of directors.  

ITEM 1B.  
  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.  

ITEM 2.  
  PROPERTIES  

We purchased our main office building located at 211
College Road East, Princeton, NJ in 2002. We use approximately 80% of this
39,000 square foot building. The remainder is leased to a third party. We also
own approximately 18,000 square feet of condominium office space located on the
27th floor at 633 Third Avenue, New York, NY that serves as our New York office.
We use approximately 49% of this 18,000 square foot condominium. The remainder
is leased to third parties. All of our other commercial office space is
leased.  

ITEM 3.  
  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

Following our announcement in July 2003 that our
Audit Committee had commissioned an internal investigation by special counsel
into our accounting, we were notified that the SEC had opened an informal
investigation of Interpool. As we had anticipated, this investigation was
converted to a formal investigation later in 2003. We have fully cooperated with
this investigation. During 2003 and 2004, the New York office of the SEC
received a copy of the written report of the internal investigation and received
documents and information from us, our Audit Committee and certain other parties
pursuant to SEC subpoenas. During late 2003, we were also advised that the
United States Attorney's office for the District of New Jersey received a copy
of the written report of the internal investigation by our Audit Committee's
special counsel and opened an investigation focusing on certain matters
described in the report. We were informed that Interpool was neither a subject
nor a target of the investigation by the U.S. Attorney's office. We have not had
any communications with either the SEC or the U.S. Attorney's office relating to
their respective investigations since 2004. We do not have any information
regarding the current status of either of these investigations. Therefore, we
cannot predict the final outcome of either of these investigations and cannot be
assured that they may not result in the taking of some action that may be
adverse to us.  

  In February and March 2004, several lawsuits were
filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, by
purchasers of our common stock naming us and certain of our present and former
executive officers and directors as defendants. The complaints alleged
violations of the federal securities laws relating to our reported Consolidated
Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001 and the nine
months ended September 30, 2002, which we announced in March 2003 would require
restatement. Each of the complaints purported to be a class action brought on
behalf of persons who purchased our securities during a specified period. In
April 2004, the lawsuits, which seek unspecified amounts of compensatory damages
and costs and expenses, including legal fees, were consolidated into a single
action with lead plaintiffs and lead counsel having been appointed. The
plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint in September 2004, which
included allegations of purported misstatements and omissions in our public
disclosures throughout an expanded purported class period from March 31, 1999
through December 26, 2003. In November 2004, we filed a motion to dismiss the
amended complaint. The motion to dismiss was granted by the District Court on
August 18, 2005, dismissing the plaintiffs' claims in their entirety and with
prejudice. On September 19, 2005, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of the
dismissal order, thereby initiating a review of the District Court's decision by
the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.  

  In view of the costs and uncertainties described
above and which are inherent in the litigation process, we elected to
participate in the Third Circuit's mediation program through which a settlement
of this litigation was negotiated. Following the conclusion of these
negotiations, we received a letter dated December 8, 2005 from the Director of
the Appellate Mediation Program for the United States Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit, confirming the settlement terms for this class action litigation,
to which all parties have agreed, which are: (1) a cash payment on behalf of
defendants in the total amount of $1.0 million, inclusive of all of the fees and
expenses of plaintiffs' counsel, and (2) the dismissal of all claims against the
Company and the other defendants on a class-wide basis. The entire $1.0 million
payment will be funded by the Company's insurance carrier. The agreed settlement
terms have been embodied in a formal settlement agreement that will be submitted
to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, and will be
subject to approval by the District Court. The Court of Appeals has remanded the
case to the District Court for consideration of the settlement.  

  In the event that the settlement is not approved, and
if the appeal were thereby revived and if the District Court's decision granting
our motion to dismiss were to be reversed, we would expect to incur additional
defense costs typical of this type of class action litigation, which should be
substantially recoverable under our insurance policies. If we are required to
defend this lawsuit, we intend to do so vigorously but we are unable at this
time to ascertain the impact the litigation may have on our financial condition
and results of operations. On the other hand, if the settlement is approved or
the District Court's decision is affirmed after full appellate review, the case
and its associated litigation costs will be concluded.  

  We are engaged in various other legal proceedings
from time to time incidental to the conduct of our business. Such proceedings
may relate to claims arising out of equipment accidents that occur from time to
time which involve death and injury to persons and damage to property.
Accordingly, we require all of our lessees to indemnify us against any losses
arising out of such accidents and other occurrences while the chassis are
on-hire to the lessees. In addition, lessees are generally required to maintain
a minimum of $2.0 million in general liability insurance coverage which is
standard in the industry. In addition, we maintain a general liability policy of
$255.0 million, in the event that the above lessee coverage is insufficient.
While we believe that such coverage should be adequate to cover current claims,
there can be no guarantee that future claims will not exceed such amounts.
Nevertheless, we believe that no such current asserted or unasserted claims of
which we are aware will have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition or results of operations and that we are adequately insured against
such claims.  

ITEM 4.  
  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

On December 15, 2005, we held our Annual Meeting of
Stockholders. The following matters were voted upon by shareholders:  

1. 
 The following individuals were elected to our Board of Directors
as Class III directors to hold office for a term of three years and until their
respective successors are duly elected and qualified. 

2. 
 Our shareholders also ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as our
independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2005. 

PART II   

ITEM 5.  
  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS  

Our common stock was listed on the New York Stock Exchange from
1993 to December 2003. Effective December 29, 2003, due to the delay in filing
our 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
our common stock and other listed securities were suspended from trading on the
New York Stock Exchange and delisting proceedings were commenced. Although we
filed our 2002 Form 10-K on January 9, 2004 and appealed the suspension, our
listed securities were delisted in April 2004. During the period the suspension
and delisting were in effect, our common stock was traded on the
over-the-counter market under the symbol IPLI. In December 2004, after making
all delinquent SEC filings, we applied for relisting on the New York Stock
Exchange and on January 13, 2005, our common stock and other listed securities
were relisted on the New York Stock Exchange. Our common stock is traded on the
New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  IPX . The following table
sets forth for the periods indicated commencing on January 1, 2004, the high and
low closing sale prices for our common stock. All share and per share data have
been rounded to the nearest cent.   

* 
 All closing prices for 2004 were obtained from the
over-the-counter market. 

As of March 1, 2006 there were approximately 3,268
stockholders of record of our common stock. On March 23, 2006, the last reported
sale price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was $19.63 per
share.  

  We paid a quarterly dividend of $0.0625 per share on
our common stock in January and April of 2005 and $0.075 per share in July and
October of 2005. In addition, a special cash dividend of $1.00 per share was
paid on November 10, 2005.  

  On November 23, 2005, we announced that our Board of
Directors had approved an increase in our quarterly cash dividend on our common
stock to $0.08 per share, commencing with the fourth quarter 2005 dividend
payable in January 2006.  

  On January 17, 2006, we paid a cash dividend of $0.20
per share, consisting of a special dividend of $0.12 per share, together with
the previously declared regular fourth quarter 2005 dividend payment of $0.08
per share. Future quarterly dividend payments are expected to be at the
previously announced quarterly rate of $0.08 per share.  

  We paid a quarterly dividend of $0.0625 per share on
our common stock in January, April, July and October of 2004 and 2003. We paid a
quarterly dividend of $0.055 per share on our common stock in January, April,
July and October of 2002 and a quarterly dividend in the amount of $0.05 per
share on our common stock in July and October 2001. Prior to July 1, 2001, we
had paid a quarterly dividend of $0.0375 per share on our common stock for the
prior 17 quarters.  

  The Board of Directors has instituted a dividend
reinvestment plan, which went into effect at the end of 2001. The plan is
non-dilutive; shares required for the plan are acquired on the open market by an
independent third party plan administrator and not through the issuance of
additional shares by us.  

ITEM 6.  
  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

The following table sets forth our selected
historical consolidated financial data, for the periods and at the dates
indicated. This information should be read in conjunction with our historical
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
and the notes thereto.  

   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
 (in thousands, except per share amounts)    

(2)   
      
  Effective
June 27, 2002, our financial statements include CAI as a consolidated
subsidiary. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 7.  
  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

The following discussion of our historical financial condition
and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the historical
consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and the other financial
information appearing elsewhere in this report.  (All fleet statistics
including the size of the fleet, utilization of the leasing equipment or the
rental rates per day that are set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
include only our equipment, including that portion of our equipment managed by
CAI. To the extent that our equipment is managed by CAI, the equipment is
considered fully utilized since it is not available for us to put on hire
regardless of whether all of the units are generating equipment leasing revenue.
All equipment owned by CAI or managed by CAI (with the exception of equipment
owned by us and managed by CAI) is excluded from all statistics, unless
otherwise indicated. In addition, all of our chassis assigned to chassis pools
are considered fully utilized. This exclusion of information relative to CAI,
unless indicated otherwise, provides a focus on the drivers which are critical
to our core business.)    

The information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains
certain  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the
securities laws. These forward-looking statements reflect the current view of
the Company with respect to future events and financial performance and are
subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our
control. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in
this report, including the statements under  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  regarding
our strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues,
projected costs, prospects, plans and objectives of management are
forward-looking statements. When used in this report, the words
 will,   believe,   anticipate, 
 intend,   estimate,   expect, 
 project  and similar expressions are intended to identify
forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain
these identifying words.   

All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this
report. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and
expectations reflected in or suggested by the forward-looking statements we make
in this report are reasonable, we can give no assurance that these plans,
intentions or expectations will be achieved. Future economic and industry trends
that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to
predict.   

During the third quarter of 2005, we determined that we had not
recorded the full amount of compensation expense required by U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) with respect to a separation
agreement entered into with our former president in October 2003. As a result,
we concluded that it was necessary to restate our Consolidated Financial
Statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004. In connection with
our decision to correct our Consolidated Financial Statements for the additional
compensation expense, we also corrected our 2003 and 2004 Consolidated Financial
Statements for an accounting error previously disclosed in our 2004 Form 10-K
relating to hedge accounting that affected our 2003 financial results that had
not been considered sufficiently material to require a modification of the 2003
Consolidated Financial Statements. Our restated Consolidated Financial
Statements for 2003 and 2004 were included in the Form 10-K/A we filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on November 8, 2005. For further information
regarding this restatement, see Note 1(B) in our 2004 Form 10-K/A.   

Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2004 and 2003
amounts in order to conform to the 2005 presentation.   

March 2006 Sale of Containers   

On March 29, 2006, our wholly owned container leasing
subsidiary, Interpool Containers Limited ( ICL ), completed the sale
of approximately 273,200 standard dry marine cargo containers, together with an
assignment of all rights of ICL under existing leases for these containers with
our customers, to a newly formed subsidiary of an investor group based in
Switzerland (the  Purchaser ), pursuant to a Sale Agreement dated
March 14, 2006 (the  Sale Agreement ). Although the sale was completed
on March 29, 2006, the Sale Agreement stipulates that the Purchaser
will be entitled to the net operating income attributable to the containers sold
to the Purchaser from and after April 1, 2006. The aggregate cash
purchase price paid by the Purchaser was approximately $515.9 million. The
containers sold represent approximately 74% of the standard dry marine cargo
containers owned by us at December 31, 2005 that were in our operating lease
fleet, including most of the containers managed for us by our 50% subsidiary
CAI. The sale did not include containers subject to existing direct financing
leases with customers.   

In connection with the Sale Agreement, both we and CAI entered
into management agreements with the Purchaser (the  Management
Agreements ) under which CAI agreed to perform management services on
behalf of the Purchaser with respect to the containers sold, including billing,
collecting, lease renewal, operations and disposition activities, in
consideration of a management fee equal to 4% of the net operating income
attributable to containers under long-term operating leases, and 9% of the net
operating income attributable to containers under short-term operating leases.
The Management Agreements designate ICL to serve as sub-manager of the
containers currently under long-term lease for such period of time as we may
elect, up to the respective dates when the containers are returned by their
current lessees. During that period, ICL will be entitled to receive the
management fees described above. The duration of the Management Agreements will
be ten years from the closing date, subject to extension for up to two
additional years at the Purchaser s option. Our existing agreements with
CAI are being modified to reflect these new arrangements.   

We intend to continue to make container acquisitions in the
future and will continue to be engaged in the business of leasing containers and
related equipment to our customers under both operating and direct financing
leases. Neither the Sale Agreement nor the Management Agreements restricts us
from engaging in any business in the future or from acquiring containers for
lease to customers.   

The Sale Agreement does not contain any provision that would
require us to repurchase the containers from the Purchaser based upon the
occurrence of future events.   

We will use the proceeds from the sale of the containers to
reduce indebtedness, for equipment acquisitions and for other general corporate
purposes.   

As a result of the consummation of these transactions, we expect
to report a gain on the sale of the containers to the Purchaser during the
quarter ending March 31, 2006. The after-tax amount of this gain is expected to
be approximately $61.0 million, subject to closing adjustments and final
accounting review. Effective April 1, 2006, we will no longer record
leasing revenue relating to the containers sold to the Purchaser, but we or CAI
will instead record management fee revenue relating to the sold containers under
the Management Agreements.   

First Quarter
2006 Impairment Charge   

Beginning in late 2005 and continuing into the first quarter of
2006, one of our larger shipping line customers began returning a significant
number of containers under leases entered into during 1999 and 2000 that had
expired. Based upon an analysis of the quantity of containers involved,
then-existing conditions in the short-term leasing market and related expenses
associated with major equipment returns, we entered into negotiations with this
customer regarding the parties  on-going and future business relationships.
Following extensive discussions, we reached an agreement with the customer
whereby the leases for these containers would be converted to direct financing
leases by extending the lease terms, with the lessee obtaining ownership at
expiration. As a result of this modification to the lease terms, we concluded on
March 29, 2006 that it would be necessary under U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles to record a charge for impairment for these assets. The
amount of this impairment charge, which will be recorded in the first quarter of
2006, is expected to be approximately $6.5 million. No portion of this
impairment charge will result in any cash expenditures by us. To the extent that
this agreement is extended to cover additional containers, by mutual agreement
of the parties, we may incur an additional impairment charge in the future.

General    

Interpool is one of the world s leading suppliers of
equipment and services to the intermodal transportation industry. We believe we
are the world s largest lessor of intermodal container chassis and a
leading lessor of international dry freight standard containers used in
international trade.   

Our primary sources of equipment leasing revenue are derived
from operating leases and income earned on direct financing leases. We generate
this revenue through leasing transportation equipment, primarily intermodal
container chassis and intermodal dry freight standard containers. Operating
lease equipment (operating leases) and direct financing leases are the two major
asset types that generate this revenue. In the case of operating lease
equipment, we retain the substantive risks and rewards of equipment ownership.
In the case of direct financing leases, the lessee generally has the substantive
risks and rewards of equipment ownership and the right to purchase the equipment
at the end of the lease term. This equipment leasing revenue is supplemented by
other sources of revenue such as fees charged to the lessee for handling,
delivery and repairs earned under contractual agreement with the lease customer.
Equipment leasing revenue derived from an operating lease generally consists of
the monthly lease payments from the customer. For direct financing leases, the
lessee s payment is segregated into principal and interest components much
like a loan. The interest component, calculated using the effective interest
method over the term of the lease, is recognized by us as equipment leasing
revenue. The principal component of the direct financing lease payment is
reflected as a reduction to the net investment in the direct financing lease.
Other revenues consist primarily of fees charged to the lessee for handling of
our equipment, and repairs for which the customer is responsible under the terms
of their lease agreement.   

Our mix of operating and direct financing leases is a function
of customer preference and demand and our success in meeting those customer
requirements. An operating lease, during its initial lease term, will generally
be more profitable than a direct financing lease, primarily due to the return of
principal inherent in a direct financing lease, which is usually greater than
the depreciation expense associated with an operating lease. However, after the
initial term (and any renewal) of an operating lease expires, the operating
lease will have redeployment costs and related risks that are avoided under a
direct financing lease. In evaluating the revenue performance of our operating
lease portfolio, the primary factors considered are utilization and daily rental
rates.   

Chassis have been leased in pooled arrangements at marine ports
since the mid 1980 s. Chassis pools are locations where a lessor provides a
group of chassis in a single port terminal location to be rented on a daily
basis. A customer who signs our pool agreement and has appropriate credit is
allowed to rent any chassis in the pool at any time. The industry term for this
type of chassis pool is called a  neutral  pool, because the chassis
are provided by a neutral third party rather than the shipping lines themselves.
A shipping line notifies a trucker to pick up a chassis from the pool and then
proceed to pick up the designated container for movement. The chassis is
returned by the trucker to the pool when the move is complete. The shipping line
or other customer pays only for the number of days it uses the chassis. Pool
rental rates are higher than term lease rates because the customer pays only
when the chassis is in use (and we may experience some idle, unpaid period
between uses of the chassis) and because the customer generally does not pay for
any maintenance and repair the costs being also bundled into the overall
chassis pool rate.   

Recently, we have established two more advanced
 neutral  chassis pools. These pools are clusters of locations in a
region. We call them  metro pools  and such pools have been
established in the New York metropolitan area, and the Houston metropolitan
area. These pools differ from traditional neutral pools in that customers are
able to pick up chassis in one location and return them to other locations that
are all in the  network.  The logistics of the networking process are
managed by our proprietary  PoolStat   software, which also
manages the inventory and billing functions of the pools. This form of neutral
pool is growing, and should see continued rapid growth in the next several
years.   

In 2000, we acquired the North American Intermodal Division of
Transamerica Leasing, Inc. which included chassis pool operations at railroad
terminals. This program has continued to expand, and today we have neutral
chassis pools at over 40 rail terminals across the United States. Some of these
terminals are linking up with the metro pools to create a more integrated
marine/rail pool network.   

In addition to neutral chassis pools involving the rental of
Trac Lease chassis, Trac Lease also provides management services to the shipping
lines who want to pool only their chassis in a port terminal for increased
efficiency. The industry terms for these pools are  cooperative  or
 co-op  chassis pools. The participating shipping lines contribute the
chassis under their control to the overall pool. Once in the pool, any
contributor can use any other contributor s chassis. Trac Lease s
 PoolStat   software performs a number of complex management
functions, including keeping track of the number of chassis used per day by a
contributor versus the number of chassis contributed. Cooperative pools like
neutral pools are growing in popularity with our customer base.   

During the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared with the
year ended December 31, 2004, our equipment leasing revenues for chassis
increased due to an increase in the size of our operating lease chassis fleet
and an increase in the size and performance of our chassis pool fleet, partially
offset by a decline in utilization (including equipment on both operating and
direct financing leases) from 97% to 95%. During 2005, the size of our chassis
fleet increased to 226,000 chassis from 208,000 chassis at December 31, 2004.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared with the
year ended December 31, 2004, the decline in equipment leasing revenues for
containers was primarily due to the contractual runoff of the container direct
financing lease portfolio as well as a reduction in utilization rates. This
reduction in utilization resulted from both the acquisition of new containers
which have not yet been placed on lease and other containers being returned at
the end of their lease term. Our fleet of containers increased to 832,000
twenty-foot equivalent units ( TEU ) at December 31, 2005 from 808,000
TEU at December 31, 2004. Utilization of our container fleet (including
equipment on both operating and direct financing leases) was 97% and 99% at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.   

Since the second quarter of 2005, an excess supply of new
containers has developed in China. While we believe this situation is probably
temporary due to the significant deliveries of container ships scheduled for the
next several years and the normal retirement of older containers, it has
resulted in a slowing of new production, a reduction in new container prices
and, in turn, has also resulted in softness in leasing demand and daily rental
rates for long-term leases of new equipment. In addition, daily rental rates for
used containers are very competitive and expiring operating leases are often
renewed at daily rates that are lower than the rental rates during the initial
lease term. During the second quarter of 2005, the number of new containers we
had available for long-term lease increased, as customer demand for new on-hires
was below demand expectations. However, a significant portion was subsequently
placed on lease during the second half of 2005 and we expect to place the
remainder of this equipment on long-term lease during the first half of 2006. In
general, demand for leasing of new containers in the second half of 2005 has
been slower than the first half of 2005.   

Lease rates for new chassis rose steadily during the first half
of 2005 due to both the increased cost of new equipment and the overall
limitations in production space. Similarly, lease rates for used chassis rose
from mid-2004 through the first half of 2005, largely due to the depletion of
used chassis inventories and the rising price of new and remanufactured chassis.
Demand for new chassis remained strong in the third and fourth quarters of 2005
and lease rates have remained at the levels experienced in the first half of
2005. We expect rates to remain at current levels through the first half of
2006.   

We anticipate that industry demand for chassis will remain
generally strong through 2006. In part this is due to the increased volume of
cargo movement in and out of railroad terminals, causing the railroads to
reconfigure the patterns of container and chassis activity on the terminals. In
a growing number of locations, they are requiring empty containers to be moved
off of the terminal, a process that requires additional chassis to service the
additional container movements. Railroads are also increasing the use of neutral
chassis pooling operated by leasing companies to aid efficiency. Marine ports
are experiencing similar congestion, and are beginning to take similar measures
to ease this congestion. Overall, more chassis will be needed to service these
anti-congestion efforts.   

Periods of fluctuation in leasing demand can occur. During the
second half of 2005, we noted decreases in leasing demand for containers and in
daily rental rates for long-term container leases. We anticipate that industry
demand for chassis and containers will continue to grow. This expectation is
supported by continued anticipation of a major expansion of the world cellular
container ship fleet through 2008 as evidenced by recent reports that the major
shipyards are experiencing large order backlogs through 2008. As reported in the
 Containerisation International Yearbook 2006,  the world container fleet
(excluding vessels to be scrapped) is expected to increase by 15.7% in 2006 and
15.5% in 2007 and beyond. As of November 1, 2005, the total container ship order
book was comprised of approximately 1,165 ships with a total capacity of
approximately 4.4 million TEU, for an increase of approximately 55.3% of the
world cellular container ship capacity. We are not able to predict when this
anticipated growth will impact container leasing demand.   

We believe a number of factors have contributed to the high
utilization of equipment in the industry. From 2003 to 2004, according to the
 Containerisation International Yearbook 2006 , global containerized
traffic increased by 12.6%, from 299.3 million TEU in 2003 to 336.9 million TEU
in 2004, increasing demand for transportation equipment generally. In addition,
several major shipping lines started to bring new, very large 8,000-9,000 TEU
ships to the West Coast of the United States in the fall of 2004. When ships of
this size are unloaded, they require the use of a larger number of chassis to
move the containers to local railroad terminals or their final destinations. The
large quantity of vessels on order will also require additional containers to
support them. Demand for chassis has also been affected by the inability of the
larger, fully loaded ships to pass through the Panama Canal. These ships
typically discharge their cargo on the West Coast of the United States, with the
cargo being moved by  land bridges , by truck and rail, inland and
across the country, using chassis at various stages during this process. At the
same time, the demand for chassis, along with increased congestion at many of
the rail and marine facilities around the country, has fueled an increase in the
pooling of chassis for greater efficiencies. Correspondingly, we have
experienced an increase in demand for our  PoolStat   based
chassis management services as more shipping lines are entering into these
chassis sharing arrangements. In addition, we have continued to experience high
demand in our own Trac Lease neutral chassis pools at railroads and marine
terminals. As a result of these factors, pool revenues increased significantly
during 2005 and will continue to do so in 2006.   

In late August 2005, Hurricane Katrina caused damage to some of
our equipment when it struck two facilities in New Orleans where about 200 of
our containers and 550 of our chassis were located. Under the terms and
conditions of our agreements with the facilities and the lessees in possession
of our equipment at the time, it is their responsibility to repair the damage at
their expense. To date, most equipment has been repaired under these terms and
at no cost to the Company.   

During 2005, we received net additional financing commitments of
$272.7 million from several institutions. At December 31, 2005 (excluding $110.7
million available under CAI s revolving credit facility), we had a total of
$221.5 million of unused commitments for growth, to re-finance existing secured
debt or for other working capital requirements. Our interest expense was $9.1
million higher during 2005 than it was during 2004 as we experienced a higher
level of interest rates, partially offset by the fact that waiver-related bank
fees paid during 2005 were significantly lower than they had been during 2004,
at which time we were required to obtain waivers related to our delayed SEC
filings. The increase in interest rates was due to an overall increase in
interest rates for new borrowings, including the issuance during late 2004 of
the $230.0 million of Notes due in 2014 which have an overall interest rate of
8.3%, including the amortization of the original issue discount. We regularly
evaluate financing proposals which, when coupled with available cash balances
and funds available under commitments mentioned above, could be used for growth,
for refinancing existing facilities and for working capital.   

As of December 31, 2005, our commitments for future capital
expenditures totaled approximately $74.2 million with approximately $63.8
million committed for 2006. Our available liquidity at December 31, 2005,
including $221.5 million available under credit facilities (which excludes
CAI s credit facility), was $626.2 million after deducting $22.6 million of
restricted cash. Required debt repayments and capital lease payments for the
next 12 months totaled $229.1 million. Based on our existing cash balances,
financings closed, and our financial projections of operating cash flow for the
future, we believe that we will have sufficient liquidity to grow our portfolio
while meeting our obligations and commitments as they become due.   

Other than interest expense and depreciation expense on our
operating lease equipment, our primary expenses are corporate administrative and
lease operating expenses, which include maintenance and repair expense, as well
as storage and positioning expense. Our lessees are generally responsible for
lease operating expenses during the term of their lease. Our corporate
administrative expenses are primarily employee related costs such as salary
expense, costs of employee benefits, information technology expenses and travel
and entertainment costs, as well as expenses incurred for outside services such
as legal, consulting and audit related fees. During 2005, lease operating and
administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues were 37.7%, compared
to 35.9% during the same period in 2004. This increase was primarily due to an
increase in maintenance and repair costs, positioning and handling expenses, and
compensation expense for the variable accounting associated with the change in
the fair value for the portion of CAI s preferred stock held by certain
employees of CAI which was acquired using the proceeds of the loan from CAI.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in storage and equipment
rental costs. The additional personnel and systems enhancements we are adding to
improve our internal controls, as well as additional procedures being
implemented to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, have also
added incremental administrative expenses in 2005.   

Non-performing receivables totaled $11.5 million at December 31,
2005 compared with $12.5 million at December 31, 2004. Reserves of $11.5 million
and $11.8 million, respectively, have been established against these
non-performing receivables. During 2005, receivable write-offs net of recoveries
totaled $2.8 million as compared with $3.7 million in 2004.   

Our net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $60.5
million as compared with $7.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The
December 31, 2005 net income included non-cash income of $18.5 million (for
which no tax expense is recorded) resulting from the change in fair value of the
warrants issued by us during September 2004 in connection with a Securities
Purchase Agreement pursuant to which we sold $150.0 million of 6.0% notes due in
2014. In addition, the December 31, 2005 net income included $11.5 million (net
of tax) resulting from the gain on sale of an equity investment and $23.1
million (net of tax) of expenses related to repatriation. The December 31, 2004
net income included income of $5.2 million (net of tax) related to an insurance
settlement. Additionally, the December 31, 2004 net income included non-cash
expense of $49.2 million (for which no tax benefit is derived) resulting from
the change in fair value of the warrants mentioned above. Our net income per
share on a fully diluted basis for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 was
$1.94 and $0.27, respectively. Annualized return on average stockholders 
equity was 14.6% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Excluding the non-cash
income for the change in the fair value of the warrants, the gain on sale of
equity investment and the repatriation expenses, the annualized return on
average stockholder s equity was 13.0% for the year ended December 31,
2005. Excluding the non-cash expense for the change in the fair value of the
warrants and the gain on settled insurance litigation, the annualized return on
average stockholders  equity was 12.6% for the year ended December 31,
2004.   

We conduct business with shipping line customers throughout the
world and are therefore subject to the risks of operating in disparate political
and economic conditions including those associated with increasing oil prices.
Offsetting this risk is the worldwide nature of the shipping business and the
ability of our shipping line customers to shift their operations from areas of
unfavorable political and/or economic conditions to more promising areas.
Approximately 99% of our revenues are billed and paid in U.S. dollars. We
believe these factors substantially mitigate foreign currency rate risks.

On December 27, 2005, Interpool, Inc. s wholly
owned Barbados subsidiary, Interpool Limited, made a distribution to Interpool,
Inc. of approximately $305.0 million (the  Distribution ), as part of
a plan approved by Interpool, Inc. s Board of Directors to repatriate
accumulated and current earnings and profits of Interpool Limited, which
previously had been considered permanently reinvested outside the United States.
Pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  AJCA ), the
Distribution was subject to U.S. federal tax at a reduced rate of approximately
5.25%.   

In connection with our repatriation plan, on
December 14, 2005, effective as of close of business on
November 30, 2005, Interpool Limited, which operated our international
container leasing business, transferred substantially all of its operating
assets and related liabilities to Interpool Containers Limited
( ICL ), a newly formed Barbados company which is a subsidiary of
Interpool, Inc. ICL now operates our international container leasing business.

Our container leasing operations are primarily conducted through
our Barbados subsidiaries, previously Interpool Limited, and beginning November
30, 2005, ICL, as well as through our
consolidated subsidiary CAI, of which we own a 50% common equity interest and
currently appoint a majority of the members of the board of directors. Our
effective U.S. federal tax rate benefits substantially from the application of
an income tax convention, pursuant to which the profits of Interpool Limited and
beginning November 30, 2005, ICL from international container leasing operations
are exempt from federal taxation in the United States. These profits are subject
to Barbados tax at rates that are significantly lower than the applicable rates
in the United States. For further information regarding the United States and
Barbados Tax Treaty, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the
 United States Federal Income Tax  section of Management s
Discussion and Analysis in this Form 10-K.   

Through December 31, 2005, we claimed treaty benefits under the
United States and Barbados income tax treaty (the  Tax Treaty ). The
Tax Treaty contained a limitation on the benefits provision which denied treaty
benefits under certain circumstances. However, we did not fall within the Tax
Treaty s limitation on benefits provision.   

Beginning January 1, 2005, in addition to having to satisfy the
limitation on benefits provision, Interpool Limited and ICL are only eligible
for the Tax Treaty benefits with respect to its container rental and sales
income if Interpool Inc is listed on a  recognized stock exchange  and
Interpool Inc. s stock is primarily and regularly traded on such exchange.

Although our common stock was not listed on a recognized stock
exchange at January 1, 2005, on January 13, 2005, our common stock was listed,
and began trading, on the New York Stock Exchange. We believe this listing and
our current trading volume satisfies the  primarily  and
 regularly  traded requirements of the Tax Treaty, thus qualifying us
for benefits under the Tax Treaty again on January 13, 2005. We estimated there
should be no U.S. current tax expense for the period January 1, 2005 to January
12, 2005, when we were not covered by the Tax Treaty.   

As companies resident of Barbados, Interpool Limited and ICL are
required to file tax returns in Barbados and pay any tax liability to Barbados.
Prior to the third quarter of 2005, no Barbados tax returns had been prepared
and filed for Interpool Limited for any period subsequent to its 1997 tax year.
As of September 30, 2005, all previously outstanding Barbados tax returns (1998
  2004 tax years) were filed. There was no underpayment of taxes, interest
or penalties (other than a nominal late filing penalty) with the filing of these
returns.   

Results of Operations    

The sections that follow analyze our results of operations by
financial statement caption and provide a more detailed discussion of our
performance for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to December 31,
2004 and for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended
December 31, 2003.   

Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended
December 31, 2004    

Equipment Leasing Revenue .  Our equipment leasing
revenues increased to $393.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from
$388.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $5.7 million
or 1%.   

Container leasing segment revenues decreased to $178.1 million for the
year ended December 31, 2005, from $181.5 million in the year ended December 31,
2004, a decrease of $3.4 million or 2%. The decrease was primarily attributable
to a reduction in container operating lease revenues of $1.8 million and a
reduction in direct financing lease revenues of $1.6 million. The decrease in
container operating lease revenues was primarily due to a decrease in
utilization rates, partially offset by an increase in the daily rental rates.
Utilization rates of our container fleet have historically been calculated
assuming containers managed by CAI were 100% utilized since they were not
available to us to put on hire regardless of whether all of these units are
generating revenue. Under this method, utilization rates of our container
operating lease fleet were 95% and 99% at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. This reduction in utilization resulted from both the acquisition
of new containers which have not yet been placed on lease and other containers
being returned at the end of their lease term. The utilization rates of our
operating lease container fleet, considering CAI s actual utilization rates
for our operating lease containers managed by CAI, were 92% and 96% at December
31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.   

Domestic intermodal equipment segment revenues increased to
$215.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $206.7 million in the
year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $9.0 million or 4%. The increase
was primarily attributable to an increase in chassis operating lease revenues of
$9.9 million, partially offset by a decrease in direct financing lease revenues
of $0.9 million. The incremental chassis operating lease revenues were primarily
due to an increase in our chassis operating lease fleet of 5% and an increase in
the size and the performance of our chassis pool fleet which generally earns a
higher daily rental rate, partially offset by a decrease in utilization rates.
The decrease in direct financing lease revenues, as compared to the prior year
period, was primarily due to the run-off of the finance lease portfolio at a
rate which was faster than the addition of new leases to this portfolio. The
utilization rates of our domestic intermodal chassis operating lease fleet were
95% and 97% at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.   

Other Revenue.   Our other revenues increased to
$22.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $16.2 million in the
year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $6.5 million or 40%.   

Container leasing segment other revenues increased to $10.7
million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $8.7 million in the year
ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $2.0 million or 23%. The increase was
primarily attributable to an increase in billable repairs to our lessees at the
termination of a lease of $1.6 million and an increase in container positioning
revenue of $0.4 million.   

Domestic intermodal equipment segment other revenues increased
to $12.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $7.5 million in the
year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $4.5 million or 60%. The increase
was primarily attributable to an increase in billable repairs to our lessees at
the termination of a lease of $3.1 million and an increase in chassis
positioning revenue of $1.3 million.   

Lease Operating and Administrative
Expenses.   Our lease operating and administrative expenses
increased to $156.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $145.3
million in the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $11.6 million or 8%.

The increase was primarily due to:   

An increase in maintenance and repair costs of $9.9 million
primarily due to an increase in chassis assigned to chassis pools which generate
higher daily rental rates and higher repair expenses. In addition, we
experienced an increase in the number of chassis that were refurbished or
remanufactured during the current period which resulted in an increase to
maintenance and repairs costs. 

An increase in salary and employee related expenses of $4.7
million primarily due to $4.4 million of compensation expense for the variable
accounting associated with the change in the fair value for the portion of
CAI s preferred stock held by certain employees of CAI which was acquired
using the proceeds of the loan from CAI and an increase in headcount and
employee related costs, partially offset by a reduction in compensation related
expenses associated with the variable accounting for our stock appreciation
rights. The reduction in compensation related expense relative to our stock
appreciation rights was primarily due to the decline in the market value of our
common stock during the current year period as compared to the prior year
period. 

An increase in positioning and handling expense for our equipment of
$2.9 million which was primarily due to the repositioning of equipment to chassis pool
locations and to customers at the outset of new term leases. 

An increase in consulting fees of $1.0 million primarily due to
increased consulting services to facilitate compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act during
the first four months of 2005 and the development of our new IT systems, partially offset
by a reduction in consulting services associated with our financial planning and analysis
activities as we added personnel to bring those activities in-house. 

An increase of $0.9 million due to the effects of foreign currency
translation. 

A decrease in equipment rental costs of $4.2 million primarily due to
the buyout of leases related to container equipment which had previously been leased-in by
CAI. 

A decrease in storage costs of $1.5 million primarily due to increased
utilization experienced within CAI s container fleet as well as our containers
managed by CAI. 

A decrease in audit expenses of $1.3 million resulting from incremental
audit fees incurred for the year ended December 31, 2004 due to the delay in
filing our financial statements for 2003 and 2004 and additional costs incurred in 2004
related to the implementation requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 

A decrease in legal fees of $1.2 million primarily due to reduced legal
costs incurred in connection with the Audit Committee and SEC investigations. 

A further breakdown of the lease operating and administrative
expense variances, as compared to the prior period, by reportable segment is as
follows:   

Container leasing segment lease operating and administrative expenses
decreased to $46.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $46.7 million in the
year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $0.5 million or 1%. This decrease can be
summarized as follows: 

(Dollars in millions)  
      Container 
Leasing   

Equipment rental expense 
      $(3.8)  
 
      Storage expense 
      (1.2)  
 
      Positioning and handling expense 
      (0.7)  
 
      Maintenance and repairs expense 
      (0.4)  
 
      Audit expense 
      (0.3)  
 
      Legal fees 
      (0.2)  
 
      Salary and employee related expenses 
      4.5  
 
      Foreign exchange 
      0.7  
 
      Consulting fees 
      0.6  
 
      Other, net 
      0.3  

Total 
      $(0.5)  

(Dollars in millions)  
      Domestic 
Equipment 
Intermodal   

Maintenance and repairs expense 
      $10.3  
 
      Positioning and handling expense 
      3.6  
 
      Consulting fees 
      0.3  
 
      Salary and employee related expenses 
      0.2  
 
      Foreign exchange 
      0.2  
 
      Legal fees 
      (1.0)  
 
      Audit expense 
      (0.9)  
 
      Equipment rental expense 
      (0.4)  
 
      Storage expense 
      (0.3)  
 
      Other, net 
      0.1  

Total 
      $12.1  

During 2004, we incurred costs totaling $5.9 million ($4.0
million, net of tax) related to the investigations by our Audit Committee and
the SEC, separation agreements with our former Chief Financial Officer and our
former President, legal representation for the Company as well as our officers,
directors and employees, the payment of fees in order to obtain necessary
waivers from our financial institutions and the proceedings before The New York
Stock Exchange to delist our securities. The largest components of these costs
incurred in 2004 were $2.4 million of legal and consulting fees and $2.5 million
of bank waiver fees. It is possible that we could continue to incur additional
costs relating to the formal investigation by the SEC and the class action
lawsuit, including the cost of legal representation for the Company and our
current and former officers, directors and employees.   

Provision for Doubtful Accounts .  Our provision for doubtful
accounts increased to $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $1.5 million
for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily attributable to
additional provisions for specific customers which became delinquent during 2005. During
the year ended December 31, 2005, our non-performing receivables decreased $1.0 million
($11.5 million at December 31, 2005 and $12.5 million at December 31, 2004). As of
December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, our non-performing receivables, net of applicable
reserves, were 0.05% and 1.01%, respectively, of accounts receivable, net. Our provision
for doubtful accounts is provided based upon a quarterly review of the receivables. This
review is based on the risk profile of the receivables, credit quality indicators such as
the level of past-due amounts and economic conditions, as well as the value of underlying
collateral in the case of direct financing lease receivables.   

Fair Value Adjustment for Derivative Instruments . 
Our fair value adjustment for derivative instruments income amounted to $2.9
million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to income of $1.5
million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The income for the year ended
December 31, 2005, as well as the prior year period, was primarily due to the
change in fair value of interest rate swap agreements held which do not qualify
as cash flow hedges.   

Fair Value Adjustment for Warrants .  Our non-cash
fair value adjustment for warrants income amounted to income of $18.5 million
for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to expense of $49.2 million
for the prior year period. The income for the year ended December 31, 2005, as
well as the expense for the prior year period, were due to the change in the
estimated fair value of the Warrants issued in September 2004 in connection with
the 6.0% Notes. The Warrants are classified as a liability on the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The estimated fair market value of these Warrants
decreased from $71.7 million at December 31, 2004 to $53.2 million at December
31, 2005. This reduction in the fair value of the Warrants resulted primarily
from the change in the market value of our common stock during 2005. A
registration statement for the Warrants was filed with the SEC and was declared
effective on February 21, 2006. It is management s belief that this was the
final criteria to be met under the provisions of EITF 00-19 for classification
of the Warrants as equity. Therefore, the volatility of our earnings resulting
from the classification of these Warrants as a liability will be limited to the
change in the value of these Warrants between December 31, 2005 and February 21,
2006. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Depreciation and Amortization of Leasing
Equipment .  Our depreciation and amortization expenses increased to $90.0
million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $89.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $0.5 million or 1%. This increase was
primarily due to additions to our chassis operating lease fleet, partially
offset by reductions in depreciation within the container leasing segment. For a
majority of the current year period, the size of the container operating lease
fleet was lower than the corresponding fleet in 2004 due to ongoing sales of
used containers. At December 31, 2005, the container fleet showed an increase
over 2004 levels due to the acquisition of equipment during the late stages of
the year.   

Impairment of Leasing Equipment .  Our impairment of
leasing equipment expense decreased to $4.0 million for year ended December 31,
2005, from $4.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $0.6
million. This decrease was primarily due to a reduction in impairment losses
related to damaged equipment that was subsequently remanufactured ($1.3
million), partially offset by an increase in impairment losses for idle
equipment ($0.7 million).   

(Income)/Loss for Investments Accounted for Under the
Equity Method   .  The decrease in (income)/loss for investments
accounted for under the equity method of $0.2 million during the year ended
December 31, 2005 resulted primarily from reduced earnings from the investment
which was sold during the third quarter of 2005. See Note 15 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further information on the sale of our equity
investment.   

Loss on Retirement of Debt .  During the year ended
December 31, 2005, in connection with the repatriation of foreign earnings and
profits and the repayment of certain debt instruments, we incurred $3.0 million
of fees as a result of the early extinguishment of debt which was paid off prior
to its contractual maturity.   

Gain on Sale of Leasing Equipment.   We had a
gain on sale of leasing equipment of $13.4 million during the year ended
December 31, 2005 compared to $14.7 million for the prior year. The decrease of
$1.3 million was primarily due to a decrease of $3.1 million in gains on
equipment sales to third party investors recognized by CAI. The decrease in
gains on equipment sales recognized by CAI was primarily due to a decrease in
volume of units sold to third party investors during the current year period as
well as a decrease in the margin recognized by CAI on sales to third parties.
This decrease was partially offset by a $1.7 million increase in gains on
equipment sales within our container and chassis product lines as compared to
the prior year period.   

Other Income, Net .  We had other income of $1.4
million during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to $0.9 million of
other income for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase of $0.5 million
was primarily due to an increase in fee income as compared to the prior year
period.   

Gain on Insurance Settlement .  During the year
ended December 31, 2004, we signed an agreement settling the lawsuit and claims
under our insurance policy related to the default of a South Korean customer. In
connection with this settlement, we recognized a one-time gain of $6.3 million
($5.2 million, net of tax) related to the $26.4 million settlement of the claim.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Gain on Sale of Equity Investment .  During the year
ended December 31, 2005, a non-transportation company in which we held a
minority equity position since 1997 was sold. In connection with this sale, we
recognized a pre-tax gain of $13.0 million ($11.5 million net of tax). See Note
15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the sale
of our equity investment.   

Interest Expense .  Our interest expense increased
to $121.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2005 from $112.0 million in the
year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $9.1 million or 8%. This increase
was primarily attributable to increased interest rates ($10.7 million) and
increased borrowings ($1.0 million). These increases were partially offset by a
decrease in waiver-related bank fees of $2.5 million. This decrease was due to
the bank fees paid throughout 2004 in order to obtain waivers from our lenders
necessitated by our delayed SEC filings. As of December 27, 2004, we were no
longer delinquent with regard to our SEC filings; therefore we did not incur
such fees during 2005. The increase in interest rates was due to an overall
increase in interest rates for new borrowings, including the issuance during
late 2004 of the $230.0 million of Notes due in 2014 which have an overall
interest rate of 8.3%, including the amortization of the original issue
discount.   

Interest Income .  Our interest income increased to
$9.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2005 from $3.4 million in the year
ended December 30, 2004, an increase of $6.0 million. The increase in interest
income was primarily due to an increase in average invested cash balances due to
the proceeds received during late 2004 under new debt agreements, higher
interest rates on the invested cash balances, the partial liquidation of our
investment in a private equity investment fund ($2.1 million) and the receipt of
$1.6 million of past due interest received on a note receivable which was
accounted for as non-performing at December 31, 2004 due to the multiple
extensions of the repayment terms by the borrower.   

Minority Interest Expense, Net .  The decrease in
minority interest expense, net of $1.6 million for the year ended December 31,
2005 as compared to the prior year was primarily due to changes in net income
reported by our partially owned consolidated subsidiaries.   

Provision for Income Taxes .  We recorded an income
tax provision of $30.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared
to $13.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Although pre-tax income,
as adjusted for the non-cash fair market adjustment for warrants which have no
tax effect, increased by only $2.4 million, the $17.4 million net increase in
the income tax provision resulted primarily from three factors: (i) the $17.6
million federal and state tax incurred on the $305.0 million repatriation
distribution made by Interpool Limited to Interpool, Inc. during December, (ii)
the $2.4 million increase in state taxes incurred by Interpool Limited in
connection with its sale of substantially all of its operating assets and
liabilities to Interpool Containers Limited, and (iii) a higher proportion of
pre-tax income derived during 2005, as compared to 2004, from the domestic
intermodal division, which is taxed at the higher United States rates, as
opposed to the lower taxed (approximately 3%) international container division.
These increases to the income tax provision were offset by a low effective tax
rate (11.5%) applied against the pre-tax gain realized on the sale of an equity
investment, because for tax purposes the equity investment had never been
written down, and $6.4 million net reversals in valuation allowances for certain
deferred tax assets. The $6.4 million net reversals in the valuation allowances
includes an $0.8 million increase relating to an equity investment, Chassis
Holdings I, LLC, and complete valuation allowance reversals of $7.2 million
pertaining to certain equity investments which have been fully disposed of and
to state net operating losses which were reclassified as state passive activity
losses.   

Net Income .  As a result of the factors described
above, our net income increased to $60.5 million in the year ended December 31,
2005 from $7.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2004.   

Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year
Ended December 31, 2003    

Equipment Leasing Revenue.   Our equipment
leasing revenues increased to $388.2 million for the year ended December 31,
2004, from $374.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of
$13.9 million or 4%.   

Container leasing segment revenues increased to $181.5 million
for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $175.1 million in the year ended
December 31, 2003, an increase of $6.4 million or 4%. The increase was primarily
attributable to an increase in container operating lease revenues of $9.4
million, partially offset by a decrease in direct financing lease revenues of
$3.1 million. The incremental container operating lease revenues, as compared to
the prior year period, are primarily due to our container operating lease fleet
which increased in size by 7%. The daily rental rates for the overall container
fleet were lower, partially offsetting the incremental revenue resulting from
the increased average size of our container operating lease fleet. Utilization
rates of our container fleet have historically been calculated assuming
containers managed by CAI were 100% utilized since they were not available to us
to put on hire regardless of whether all of these units are generating revenue.
Under this method, utilization rates of our container operating lease fleet were
99% at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The utilization rates of our operating lease
container fleet, considering CAI s actual utilization rates for our
operating lease containers managed by CAI, were 96% and 94% at December 31, 2004
and 2003, respectively.   

Domestic intermodal equipment segment revenues increased to
$206.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $198.5 million in the
year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of $8.2 million or 4%. The increase
was attributable to an increase in chassis operating lease revenues of $9.4
million, partially offset by a decrease in direct financing lease revenues of
$1.2 million. The incremental chassis operating lease revenues are primarily due
to an increase in the utilization and daily rental rates for our chassis fleet
as compared to the prior year period. The utilization rates of our domestic
intermodal chassis operating lease fleet were 97% and 96% at December 31, 2004
and 2003, respectively.   

Computer leasing equipment segment revenues decreased $0.6
million as compared to the prior year period due to the liquidation of the
computer leasing segment which was completed during the first quarter of 2004.

Other Revenue.   Our other revenues decreased to
$16.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $27.8 million in the
year ended December 31, 2003, a decrease of $11.6 million or 42%.   

Container leasing segment other revenues decreased to
$8.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from
$11.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2003, a decrease of
$3.1 million or 26%. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease
in container positioning revenue of $2.0 million as well as a reduction in
billable repairs to our lessees at the termination of a lease of
$1.2 million.   

Domestic intermodal equipment segment other revenues decreased
to $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from
$16.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2003, a decrease of
$8.5 million or 53%. The decrease was primarily attributable to a reduction
in billable services for positioning of equipment provided to the United States
military of $4.0 million and a reduction in billable repairs to our lessees
at the termination of a lease of $4.4 million.   

Lease Operating and Administrative Expenses.   Our
lease operating and administrative expenses decreased to $145.3 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004 from $163.5 million in the year ended December
31, 2003, a decrease of $18.2 million or 11%.   

The decrease was primarily due to:   

A decrease in storage costs of $4.7 million primarily due to
increased utilization experienced within CAI s container fleet as well as
within the domestic intermodal chassis product line. 

A decrease of $2.7 million in positioning and handling expenses,
primarily due to a reduction in services incurred for the United States military. 

A decrease in maintenance and repair costs of $2.6 million
primarily due to a decrease in repairs of equipment for both the chassis and
container product lines. 

A decrease in legal and consulting fees of $2.0 million primarily due to a
reduction in legal fees related to the Audit Committee and SEC investigations in
2003 and the class action lawsuit, partially offset by increased consulting
services. 

A decrease in commission expense of $1.1 million primarily due to the write-off
of deferred sales commissions in the prior year period, as well as an overall
reduction in agency commissions. 

An increase in foreign exchange gains of $1.1 million primarily due to
the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. 

A decrease in travel and entertainment expense of $0.7 million primarily due to
reduced executive travel incurred within the container leasing segment.

A decrease in compensation related expense of $3.2 million primarily due to
$12.9 million recorded in 2003 related to separation agreements with our former
Chief Financial Officer who resigned in July 2003 and our former President who
resigned in October 2003. These costs included a $7.1 million charge related to
the modification of the options held by our former President. This reduction due
to the separation agreements was largely offset by an increase in headcount and
other employee related costs. 

A further breakdown of the lease operating and administrative
expense variances, as compared to the prior period, by reportable segment is as
follows:   

(Dollars in millions)  
      Container 
Leasing   

Storage expense 
      $(3.9)  
 
      Legal and consulting fees 
      (1.7)  
 
      Commissions expense 
      (1.1)  
 
      Foreign exchange 
      (1.1)  
 
      Maintenance and repairs expense 
      (0.8)  
 
      Travel and entertainment expense 
      (0.7)  
 
      Positioning and handling expense 
      (0.5)  
 
      Compensation related expense 
      3.0  
 
      Other, net 
      (0.7)  

Total 
      $(7.5)  

(Dollars in millions)  
      Domestic 
Intermodal 
Equipment   

Compensation related expense 
      $(6.2)  
 
      Positioning and handling expense 
      (2.2)  
 
      Maintenance and repairs expense 
      (1.8)  
 
      Storage expense 
      (0.8)  
 
      Legal and consulting fees 
      (0.3)  
 
      Other, net 
      0.7  

Total 
      $(10.6)  

During 2003 and 2004, we incurred significant costs related to
the investigations by our Audit Committee and the SEC, separation agreements
with our former Chief Financial Officer and our former President, legal
representation for the Company as well as our officers, directors and employees,
the payment of fees in order to obtain necessary waivers from our financial
institutions and, during 2004, the proceedings before The New York Stock
Exchange to delist our securities. We will continue to incur additional costs
relating to the formal investigation by the SEC and the class action lawsuit
including the cost of legal representation for the Company and our current and
former officers, directors and employees. The costs incurred during 2003 and
2004 are as follows:   

Provision for Doubtful Accounts.   Our provision for
doubtful accounts decreased to $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004
from $4.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease was
primarily attributable to an improvement in the risk profile of our outstanding
receivables, partially offset by the reversal during the prior year period of
bad debt provisions previously recorded by Microtech, without a similar reversal
of bad debt provisions during the current year period ($0.4 million). During the
year ended December 31, 2004, our non-performing receivables decreased $0.3
million ($12.5 million at December 31, 2004 and $12.8 million at December 31,
2003). As of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, our non-performing
receivables, net of applicable reserves, were 1.01% and 1.27%, respectively, of
accounts receivable, net. Our provision for doubtful accounts is provided based
upon a quarterly review of the receivables. This review is based on the risk
profile of the receivables, credit quality indicators such as the level of
past-due amounts and economic conditions, as well as the value of underlying
collateral in the case of direct financing lease receivables.   

Fair Value Adjustment for Derivative Instruments.  
Our non-cash fair value adjustment for derivative instruments income amounted to
$1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to income of $1.8
million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The income for the year ended
December 31, 2004, as well as the prior year period, was primarily due to the
change in fair value of interest rate swap agreements held which do not qualify
as cash flow hedges.   

Fair Value Adjustment for Warrants.   Our non-cash
fair value adjustment for warrants expense amounted to $49.2 million for the
quarter and year ended December 31, 2004, without a similar item in the prior
year period. The expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 was due to the
change in the fair value of the Warrants issued during September 2004 in
connection with the 6.0% Notes, which Warrants are classified as a liability on
the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Due primarily to the increase in
the market value of our common stock during the last quarter of 2004, the fair
market value of these Warrants increased from $22.5 million at September 30,
2004 to $71.7 million at December 31, 2004.   

Depreciation and Amortization of Leasing
Equipment.   Our depreciation and amortization expenses increased to $89.5
million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $87.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 2003, an increase of $2.0 million or 2%. This increase was
primarily due to additions to our operating lease fleet.   

Impairment of Leasing Equipment.   Our impairment of
leasing equipment expense decreased to $4.6 million for year ended December 31,
2004, from $9.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, a decrease of $4.4
million. This decrease was primarily due to a reduction in impairment losses
related to damaged equipment that was subsequently remanufactured ($3.0
million), and a decrease in impairment losses for idle equipment
($1.5 million).   

(Income)/Loss for Investments Accounted for Under the
Equity Method.   The increase in (income)/loss for investments accounted
for under the equity method of $2.1 million during the year ended December 31,
2004 resulted primarily from improved earnings for certain investments accounted
for under the equity method.   

Gain on Insurance Settlement.   During the year
ended December 31, 2004, we signed an agreement settling the lawsuit and claims
under our insurance policy related to the default of a South Korean Customer. In
connection with this settlement, we recognized a pre-tax gain of $6.3 million
related to the $26.4 million settlement of the claim during the three months
ended June 30, 2004. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Gain on Sale of Leasing Equipment.   We had a gain
on sale of leasing equipment of $14.7 million during the year ended December 31,
2004 compared to $1.0 million for the prior year. The increase of $13.7 million
was primarily due to an increase of $10.4 million in gains on equipment sales to
third parties recognized by CAI. The increase in gains on equipment sales
recognized by CAI was due to an increase in volume, as well as an increase in
the returns generated on the equipment sales due to the favorable market
conditions within the container resale sector. In addition, during the fourth
quarter of 2004, we sold certain assets of CTC Container Trading (U.K.) Limited,
a wholly-owned subsidiary which leased specialized cargo carrying units and
other equipment for use by companies operating in the North Sea, which resulted
in a pre-tax profit of approximately $0.9 million. The remainder of the increase
in gains on equipment sales was primarily due to the favorable market conditions
we experienced in the resale sector for containers as compared to the prior year
period, as well as sales of certain railcars which contributed favorably to
profits on equipment sales.   

Other Income, Net.   We had other income of $0.9
million during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $4.1 million of
other income for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease of $3.2 million
was primarily due to a $2.9 million gain recorded in October 2003 resulting from
the consolidation of assets and liabilities of a special purpose entity (which
no longer qualified for off-balance sheet treatment for accounting purposes)
formed as part of our container lease securitization program. This gain resulted
primarily from the favorable credit loss experience through September 30, 2003
on the underlying direct financing leases as compared to the assumed credit
losses of 1.5%. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
discussion of the accounting for this special purpose entity.   

Interest Expense.   Our interest expense increased
to $112.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2004 from $106.7 million in the
year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of $5.3 million or 5%. The increase in
interest expense was primarily attributable to an increase in amortization of
deferred financing fees of $2.8 million, increased interest rates resulting in
increased interest expense of $2.6 million and an increase of $0.9 million for
bank fees in order to obtain waivers related to our delayed filings. These
increases were partially offset by reduced borrowings resulting in a reduction
in interest expense of $1.0 million.   

Interest Income.   Our interest income decreased to
$3.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2004 from $4.0 million in the year
ended December 30, 2003, a decrease of $0.6 million or 15%. The decrease in
interest income was primarily due to reduced earnings on invested cash balances
due to lower interest rates, partially offset by an increase in average invested
balance.   

Minority Interest Expense, Net.   The change in
minority interest expense, net of $6.5 million for the year ended December 30,
2004 as compared to the prior year was primarily due to a $13.5 million increase
in net income reported by our 50%-owned consolidated subsidiary, CAI.

Provision for Income Taxes.   We recorded an income tax
provision of $13.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to
$0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. This increase was principally
caused by an increase in taxable income of $32.2 million as adjusted for the
$49.2 million permanent tax difference that arose from the non-cash expense
pertaining to the Warrant liability. In addition, a larger proportion of taxable
income was generated from United States sources as compared to lower-taxed
international source income.   

Interpool Limited s pre-tax income (international sourced
income) is taxed at a low rate (approximately 3%) due to the income tax
convention between the United States and Barbados. The domestic intermodal
division s pre-tax income (United States sourced income), including
corporate activities and the results of operations of CAI, is taxed at the
higher United States tax rates. During the year ended December 31, 2004,
35% of taxable income was generated from United States sources as compared to a
loss experienced during the year ended December 31, 2003, thus contributing
to the increase in the provision for income taxes.   

Net Income.   As a result of the factors described
above, our net income decreased to $7.9 million in the year ended December 31,
2004 from $37.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2003.   

Liquidity and Capital Resources    

Historically, we have used funds from various sources to meet
our corporate obligations and to finance the acquisition of equipment for lease
to customers. The primary funding sources have been cash provided by operations,
borrowings (generally from banks) and securitization of lease receivables,
issuance of capital lease obligations and the sale of our securities. In
addition, we have generated cash from the sale of equipment being retired from
our fleet. In general, we have sought to meet debt service requirements from the
leasing revenue generated by our equipment. At December 31, 2005, our scheduled
capital lease and debt service payments (principal and estimated interest) for
2006 totaled $352.5 million and for 2007 totaled $422.9 million. Scheduled
payments due to us under non-cancelable operating and direct financing lease
agreements with our lessees total $315.7 million for 2006 and $277.1 million for
2007 (see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition, as of
December 31, 2005, we had approximately $404.7 million of unrestricted cash and
marketable securities on hand. The combination of unrestricted cash and
marketable securities ($404.7 million) and non-cancelable lease payments due to
us during 2006 and 2007 ($592.8 million) exceeds our scheduled debt service
payments (principal and estimated interest) of $775.4 million for 2006 and 2007
by approximately $222.1 million.   

Our utilization rates of containers and chassis, as well as
those of our competitors are at high levels. However, there has been softness in
the container sector due to an excess supply of new containers in China
resulting in decreased demand for containers and decreases in daily rental rates
for long term container leases. In addition, lease rates for used containers
were competitive for much of the past two years. We anticipate that industry
demand for chassis and containers will continue to grow. This expectation is
supported by continued anticipation of a major expansion of the world cellular
container ship fleet through 2008 as evidenced by recent reports that the major
shipyards are experiencing large order backlogs through 2008. As of December 31,
2005, the existing order backlog was enough to account for an increase of
approximately 12.2% in the world s cellular container ship fleet and is
expected to result in demand for a significant number of additional containers
and chassis. We are not able to predict when this anticipated growth will impact
container leasing demand. Lease rates for new chassis rose steadily during the
first half of 2005 due to both the increased cost of new equipment and the
overall limitations in production space. Similarly, lease rates for used chassis
rose from mid-2004 through the first half of 2005, largely due to the depletion
of used chassis inventories and the rising price of new and remanufactured
chassis. Demand for new chassis remained strong in the second half of 2005 and
lease rates have remained at the levels experienced in the first half of 2005.
During the second half of 2005, we noted decreases in leasing demand for
containers and in daily rental rates for long-term container leases. In
addition, lease rates for used containers were competitive for much of the past
two years. We are not currently able to predict whether this decrease in demand
represents a trend that will continue in 2006, although demand for leasing of
new containers in the second half of 2005 has been slower than the first half of
2005.   

We have usually funded a significant portion of the purchase
price for new containers and chassis through secured borrowings from financial
institutions under various credit facilities. However, from time to time we have
funded new equipment acquisitions through the use of working capital and may
finance this equipment at a later date. We have successfully added $272.7
million of net financing commitments for secured financing from January 1, 2005
to December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005 (excluding $110.7 million
available under CAI s revolving credit facility), a total of $221.5 million
of these financing commitments was available to us for future use. We are
currently in negotiations with other potential lenders with regard to additional
financings to support business growth.   

Cash Flow    

Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $150.0
million in 2005 as compared to $160.3 million in 2004. While net income for the
year ended December 31, 2005 was $52.7 million higher than net income for the
year ended December 31, 2004, the change in cash provided by these activities
was affected by the following:   

2005 net income included non-cash income of $18.5 million related
to the adjustment of the estimated fair value of warrants issued by us in the
third quarter of 2004 as compared to non-cash expense of $49.2 million reported
in 2004 net income. 

2005 net income included a $13.0 million gain ($11.5 million, net
of tax) related to the sale of a company in which we held a minority equity
investment. 

2005 net income included an increase in taxes payable due primarily to the $20.0
million provision associated with the December 2005 repatriation of cash from
our Barbados subsidiary, Interpool Limited. 

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 included a gain on settled
insurance litigation of $6.3 million ($5.2 million, net of tax). 

Excluding the items noted above, net cash provided by these
activities decreased $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as
compared to the prior year period. The remaining change in cash provided by
operating activities resulted primarily from the following:   

a reduction in cash provided by other receivables ($27.8 million) which resulted
primarily from the collection of $26.4 million for a settled insurance claim
received during 2004 and 

a reduction in cash used for accounts payable and accrued expenses ($18.0
million). 

The remainder of the change in net cash provided by operating
activities was primarily due to changes in other operating assets and
liabilities in the ordinary course of business.   

Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $160.3
million in 2004 as compared to $150.0 million in 2003. While net income for the
year ended December 31, 2004 was $29.6 million lower than net income for the
year ended December 31, 2003, the change in cash provided by these activities
was affected by the following:   

2004 net income included a gain on settled insurance litigation of $6.3 million
($5.2 million, net of tax) and 

2004 net income included a non-cash expense of $49.2 million related to the
adjustment of the estimated fair value of warrants issued by us in the third
quarter of 2004. 

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2003 included a non-cash charge of
$7.1 million ($4.3 million after tax) related to the modification of options
held by our former President. 

Excluding the items noted above, net cash provided by these activities
increased $10.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the prior
year. The remaining change in cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily
from the following:   

an increase in cash provided by other receivables ($26.8 million) resulting
primarily from the collection of an outstanding claim receivable related to the
insurance settlement noted above and 

a decrease in cash provided by operating activities as a result of a decrease in
accounts payable and accrued expenses ($13.6 million) and an increase in other
assets ($13.0 million). 

The remainder of the change in net cash provided by operating
activities was primarily due to changes in other operating assets and
liabilities in the ordinary course of business.   

Net cash used for investing activities amounted to $243.3
million in 2005 as compared to $8.3 million in 2004. The increase in net cash
used for investing activities in 2005 was primarily due to the following:

an increase in acquisition of leasing equipment ($226.6 million) and investment
in direct finance leases ($17.2 million), 

a decrease in the proceeds from disposition of leasing equipment ($7.2 million)
partially offset by 

proceeds from the sale of a company in which we held an equity investment ($15.0
million).

Net cash used for investing activities amounted to $8.3 million
in 2004 as compared to $212.7 million in 2003. The decrease in net cash used for
investing activities in 2004 was primarily due to the following:   

a decrease in the investment in direct financing leases ($65.5 million), 

a decrease in acquisition of leasing equipment ($30.9 million), 

an increase in cash collections on direct financing leases ($11.1 million) and 

an increase in the proceeds from disposition of leasing equipment ($98.7
million). 

Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $211.2
million in 2005 as compared to $16.4 million in 2004. The change was primarily
due to the following:   

an increase in the proceeds from the issuance of debt ($252.0 million), 

an increase in the borrowings under revolving credit lines ($167.0 million), 

a decrease in repayment under revolving credit lines ($62.5 million), partially
offset by 

an increase in repayment of long term debt and capital lease
obligation ($265.2 million) and 

an increase in dividends paid ($28.1 million). 

Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $16.4
million in 2004 as compared to $33.0 million in 2003. The change was primarily
due to the following:   

an increase in repayment of revolving credit lines ($189.5 million), 

an increase in repayment of long term debt and capital lease obligations
($183.1 million), 

a decrease in the borrowings under revolving credit facilities
($57.5 million), partially offset by 

an increase in the proceeds from the issuance of debt ($415.5
million). 

The following table sets forth certain historical cash flow
information for the three years ended December 31, 2005.   

Contractual Obligations and Commercial
Commitments    

We and our subsidiaries are parties to various operating and
capital leases and are obligated to make payments related to our long-term
borrowings. See Notes 3 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are
also obligated under various commercial commitments, including obligations to
our equipment manufacturers.   

The following tables summarize our contractual obligations and
commercial commitments at December 31, 2005.   

Amounts Due by Period
                                                                       (Dollars in millions)
                                             -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Less than 1                                             More than
Contractual Obligations           Total           year          1-3 years           4-5 years           5 years 
- --------------------------      --------     -------------    ------------         -----------        ----------
Long-Term Debt                  $1,290.4     $     187.3      $     430.9          $     190.3        $    481.9
Capital Lease Obligations          673.3            41.8            138.3                107.4             385.8
Interest on Long-Term
  Debt and Capital Lease
  Obligations                      794.6           123.4            192.0                139.6             339.6
Operating Leases                    33.8            10.5             15.7                  7.5               0.1
Unconditional Purchase
Obligations                         74.2            63.8             10.4                  ---               ---
Employment Agreements               10.5             3.0              2.3                  2.5               2.7
Separation Agreements                1.3             0.8              0.5                  ---               ---
                                     ---             ---              ---                  ---               ---
Total Contractual Cash
Obligations                     $2,878.1          $430.6           $790.1               $447.3          $1,210.1
                                ========          ======           ======               ======          ========

Amounts of Commitment Expiration Per Peroid
                                  Total      -------------------------------------------------------------------
Other Commercial                 Amounts       Less than 1                                               Over
  Commitments                   Committed         year          1-3 years           4-5 years           5 years 
- ----------------------------    --------     -------------    ------------         -----------        ----------

Standby Letters of Credit           $0.3            $0.3             $---                 $---              $---
Guarantees                          16.8             ---              8.0                  3.8               5.0
                                    ----             ---              ---                  ---               ---
Total Commercial Commitments       $17.1            $0.3             $8.0                 $3.8              $5.0
                                   =====            ====             ====                 ====              ====

Debt and
Capital Lease Obligations:   

The following table summarizes our debt and capital lease
obligations as of December 31, 2005 and 2004:   

Our debt consists of notes, loans and capital lease obligations with installments
payable in varying amounts through 2027, with a weighted average interest rate
of 6.8% in 2005. The principal amount of debt and capital lease obligations
payable under fixed rate contracts is $1,075.5 million. Remaining debt and
capital lease obligations of $888.2 million is payable under floating rate
arrangements, of which $492.6 million has been converted to fixed rate debt
through the use of interest rate swap agreements. At December 31, 2005, most of
our debt and capital lease obligations are secured by a substantial portion of
our leasing equipment, direct financing leases, and accounts receivable, except
for $443.0 million of debt which is unsecured. For further information on the
accounting treatment for interest rate swap contracts see Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.   

New Financings and Committed Financing Available:  
During 2005, we drew down $994.3 million in new debt and capital lease
obligations as shown in the following table (excluding amounts drawn under
CAI s revolving credit facility). As of December 31, 2005, total
commitments of $221.5 million were available for future use by us under two
lines of credit, of which $114.0 million was available under the 2005 Fortis
Facility and $107.5 million, was available under the chassis revolving credit
facility we established in September 2005. In addition, $110.7 million was
available at December 31, 2005 under CAI s revolving credit facility
described below. The new financings during 2005 consisted of the following:

The following is a description of the significant components of
our indebtedness as of December 31, 2005:   

December 2005 Financings:    

On December 21, 2005, we established two secured credit
facilities for our international container leasing operations. The facilities
were established with two financial institutions who are the agents for the
lenders under these two credit facilities, and they replaced two previous
secured credit facilities established in 2004 by these financial institutions.

Of the $713.9 million we drew down under these facilities on
December 21, 2005, we used $429.3 million to reduce previously existing
indebtedness, including $403.8 million outstanding under our previous facilities
with the same lenders for the new facilities. The remaining portion of the
initial borrowings under the facilities, totaling $284.6 million, together with
other existing funds, was used to repay inter-company indebtedness owed to our
Barbados subsidiary, Interpool Limited. Interpool Limited, in turn, used these
proceeds, together with other funds, to pay a special cash dividend to Interpool
Inc., our U.S. parent company, on December 27, 2005.   

The new term loan and revolving credit facility (the  2005
Fortis Facility ) was established pursuant to a Credit Agreement dated as
of December 21, 2005 among Interpool Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries,
Fortis Bank (the agent lender) and certain other lenders. The facility allows
for borrowings up to $577.2 million, consisting of A notes ($500.0 million
maximum advance, of which $386.0 million has been funded) and B notes in the
amount of $77.2 million. Borrowings under the facility are secured by shipping
containers owned by a consolidated, indirect special purpose finance subsidiary
of Interpool Inc. that are leased to various customers, primarily under
long-term operating leases, and by the related lease receivables. The 2005
Fortis Facility allows for advances from time to time under the A notes up to
the amount of available collateral under the facility, subject to a maximum
principal amount that may be outstanding under the A notes of $500.0 million.
The facility has a revolving period ending October 31, 2007 and at which time we
then have the option to pay off the remaining balance over a 66 month period.

The interest rate for the A notes under the facility is LIBOR
plus 200 basis points, with reductions of up to 50 basis points possible as our
credit rating or funded debt to tangible net worth ratio (as defined in the
Credit Agreement) improves. Currently, based upon the funded debt to tangible
net worth ratio as of September 30, 2005, the interest rate for the A notes is
LIBOR plus 175 basis points. The interest rate for the B notes is LIBOR plus 350
basis points for the first twelve months the loan is outstanding and LIBOR plus
500 basis points thereafter. The 2005 Fortis Facility requires that by April 20,
2006 we enter into interest rate swap contracts in order to effectively convert
at least seventy-five percent of the debt associated with operating lease
equipment and ninety percent of the debt associated with direct financing leases
from floating rate debt to fixed rate debt. As of December 31, 2005, we have not
entered into any of these interest rate swap contracts. The 2005 Fortis Facility
also includes covenants related to a minimum level of tangible net worth, a
minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and a maximum funded debt to tangible net
worth ratio, as well as other customary restrictive covenants. In addition, the
2005 Fortis Facility contains restrictions on payments of dividends and
distributions by certain subsidiaries of Interpool Inc., after December 31, 2005
until the B notes are paid in full, and prohibits our parent company, Interpool
Inc., from making payments to our stockholders with the proceeds of the B notes.
Interpool Containers Limited ( ICL ), a newly formed Barbados
subsidiary of Interpool Limited, acts as servicer of the collateral securing the
advances under the 2005 Fortis Facility for the benefit of the lenders.

The other new credit facility (the  2005 DVB
Facility ) was established pursuant to a Credit Agreement dated as of
December 21, 2005 among Interpool Inc., ICL, DVB (the agent lender) and certain
other lenders. The facility consists of A notes ($219.7 million funded) and B
notes ($31.0 million funded), and is secured by shipping containers owned by our
subsidiary, ICL, which are leased to customers under long-term direct financing
lease arrangements, and by the related lease receivables and other receivables
of ICL. A total of $250.7 million was borrowed under the 2005 DVB Facility on
December 21, 2005 and remained outstanding at December 31, 2005.   

The interest rate for the A notes under the 2005 DVB Facility is fixed at
6.365%. The A notes amortize over a five year term. The interest rate for the B
notes is LIBOR plus 350 basis points for the first twelve months the loan is
outstanding and LIBOR plus 500 basis points thereafter. The B notes amortize to
a balloon payment over twelve months, but may be extended for an additional two
years at our option. The 2005 DVB Facility also includes covenants related to a
minimum level of tangible net worth, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and
a maximum funded debt to tangible net worth ratio, as well as other customary
restrictive covenants. In addition, the 2005 DVB Facility contains restrictions
on the payments of dividends and distributions by certain subsidiaries of
Interpool Inc. after December 31, 2005 until the B notes under the 2005 DVB
Facility are paid in full, and prohibits our parent company, Interpool Inc.,
from making payments to our stockholders with the proceeds of the advances under
this facility.   

We used $403.8 million of the December 21, 2005 advances under
the 2005 Fortis Facility and the 2005 DVB Facility to repay debt outstanding
under secured equipment financing facilities we had established in November 2004
with the agent and several other lenders (the  2004 Fortis Facility )
and a separate facility we had established earlier in 2004 with DVB (the
 2004 DVB Facility) , under which no funds were drawn until July 2005
and we terminated these 2004 facilities. For descriptions of the 2004 Fortis
Facility and the 2004 DVB Facility, see below.   

Chassis Securitization Facility:   Our current
chassis securitization facility was established in September 2002. This facility
was initially limited to $541.0 million and was increased in May 2003 to provide
for a $200.0 million revolving warehouse facility within the chassis
securitization facility. In July 2003 and October 2003, we agreed, among other
things, to suspend our ability to incur additional funding under this warehouse
facility until such time as the loan and guarantee parties have each agreed in
their sole discretion to reinstate their funding commitments. This warehouse
facility remained suspended throughout 2004. In early 2005, we elected not to
renew the warehouse facility. As a result of this decision, the warehouse
facility was not extended beyond its scheduled expiration date of March 31,
2005. Accordingly, under the terms of the securitization facility, beginning
April 1, 2005, all cash flow from the securitization that would normally have
been received by us after the requirements of the securitization financing are
satisfied is being used to pay down the warehouse facility until it is paid in
full. In addition, based on the terms of the securitization financing, the
interest rate on the warehouse facility was increased by 100 basis points as of
March 31, 2005. At December 31, 2005, $8.4 million remained outstanding under
the warehouse facility; this balance will be paid during 2006. The total amount
outstanding under our chassis securitization facility at December 31, 2005 was
$420.9 million.   

Other 2005 Financings:    

In February 2005, we entered into a lease arrangement with a
Japanese lessor involving $29.9 million of equipment previously financed with a
financial institution during December 2003 and May 2004. This transaction closed
in two approximately equal tranches, the first of which occurred on February 28,
2005, and the second of which occurred on March 31, 2005. The lease ends in
December 2008, and we have a fixed purchase option at that time that we expect
to exercise. The aggregate fixed rate of interest on the lease is 7.44%. We
received additional cash proceeds totaling $4.2 million at the February closing
and $4.3 million at the March closing. A total of $27.4 million was outstanding
under these leases at December 31, 2005.   

During September 2005, we completed a secured revolving credit
facility for $122.5 million with an agent bank and other lenders for the
financing of chassis equipment. The term of this facility is five years. The
interest rate is set at LIBOR plus 1.375% until January 1, 2006, after which the
rate is determined by a pricing grid related to a defined funded debt to
tangible net worth ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) with interest
rates ranging from LIBOR plus 1.00% to LIBOR plus 1.625%. The initial $15.0
million drawdown under this facility was used to refinance a $15.0 million
secured loan made by the agent bank during July 2004 which had borne interest at
a rate of LIBOR plus 2.5% and which had been used, in part, to satisfy a note
payable from PCR to an unrelated financial institution, which we had guaranteed
for PCR. The Credit Agreement for this facility also includes covenants related
to a minimum level of tangible net worth, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio
and a maximum funded debt to tangible net worth ratio, as well as other
customary restrictive covenants. As of December 31, 2005, $15.0 million was
outstanding under the facility established in September 2005.   

We also entered into a capital lease obligation transaction with
a U.S. bank for $29.8 million with an interest rate of 4.93% during September
2005, which continues until September 2015. We have a bargain fixed purchase
option at that time that we expect to exercise. A total of $29.5 million was
outstanding under this capital lease at December 31, 2005.   

In December 2005, we completed a capital lease obligation
transaction totaling $7.1 million with a U.S. bank with an interest rate of
5.16%, which continues until December 2015. We also entered into a capital lease
obligation transaction with another bank for $30.0 million with an interest rate
of 5.39%, which continues until December 2013. Both these leases have a bargain
fixed purchase option at lease end that we expect to exercise. These amounts
remained outstanding at December 31, 2005.   

In addition to the financings specifically identified above, at
December 31, 2005, we had additional notes and loans outstanding with various
financial institutions in the aggregate amount of $22.0 million, at interest
rates ranging from 5.75% to 7.90%, and additional capital lease obligations of
$190.9 million.   

During the fourth quarter of 2005, we paid off 14 container
financing facilities with outstanding balances of $553.1 million at the time
they were paid off, including the 2004 Fortis Facility and 2004 DVB Facility as
described above, to further rationalize our debt structure and facilitate the
establishment of the 2005 Fortis Facility and 2005 DVB Facility.   

CAI Revolving Credit Facility:   On April 28, 2005,
CAI replaced its $110.0 million secured revolving credit facility, which had an
outstanding principal balance of $58.5 million as of March 31, 2005 (not
including letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $6.0 million as of March
31, 2005) and was scheduled to expire on June 27, 2005, with a new senior
secured revolving credit facility. The new credit facility has a total
commitment amount of up to $175.0 million and was provided by a group of banks.
The interest rate under the revolving line of credit varies depending upon
whether the loans are characterized as base rate loans or Eurodollar rate loans.
In addition, there is a commitment fee on the unused amount of the total
commitment which fee is payable quarterly in arrears. The new credit facility
provides that swing line loans (up to $10.0 million in the aggregate) and
standby letters of credit (up to $15.0 million in the aggregate) will be
available to CAI, which sublimits are part of, and not in addition to, the total
commitment of $175.0 million under the new credit facility. The term of this
revolving credit facility is three years. In connection with the first loan
advance under the new revolving credit facility, CAI repaid the outstanding
principal balance of $58.0 million on its then existing revolving credit
facility (plus interest and additional fees) and repaid $15.2 million of the
amounts owed to us under the outstanding subordinated note issued by CAI to us
in 1998. At December 31, 2005, $64.0 million was outstanding under CAI s
revolving credit facility. This revolving credit facility contains various
financial and other covenants. At December 31, 2005, CAI was in compliance with
these covenants.   

As mentioned above, on April 28, 2005, CAI repaid $15.2 million
of its $33.7 million subordinated note held by us. This repayment returned this
subordinated note to the original payment schedule in effect before it was
modified during 2002. The remaining balance of the subordinated note, totaling
$16.8 million as of December 31, 2005, is required to be repaid in equal
quarterly installments of approximately $1.7 million through April 30, 2008. In
addition, the financial covenants associated with this subordinated note were
also amended in April 2005.   

6% Notes and Warrants:   On September 14,
2004, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement pursuant to which we sold
$150.0 million total principal amount of a new series of 6.0% Notes due 2014
(the  6% Notes ) in a private transaction with four investors. In
connection with the sale of the 6% Notes, we also issued to the investors two
series of warrants that were originally exercisable for a total of 8,333,333
shares of our common stock at an initial exercise price of $18.00 per share (the
 Warrants ). The exercise price of the Warrants is subject to
customary anti-dilution adjustments as set forth in the Warrants. As of December
31, 2005, as a result of anti-dilution adjustments, the Warrants were
exercisable for a total of 8,833,333 shares at an exercise price of $17.01 per
share. Based on adjustments through January 3, 2006 (the record date for the
most recent dividend declared by the Company), the exercise price is currently
$16.88 per share and the Warrants are currently exercisable for a total of
8,916,666 shares.   

The 6% Notes mature on September 1, 2014, with interest payable
semi-annually at a rate of 6.0% per annum. We have the right to redeem the 6%
Notes at any time after September 1, 2009 with a declining premium. The maturity
of the 6% Notes can be accelerated upon the occurrence of an  Event of
Default  as such term is defined in the indenture governing the 6% Notes
(the  Indenture ). The Indenture also contains various restrictive
covenants, including limitations on the payment of dividends and other
restricted payments, limitations on incurrence of indebtedness, and limitations
on asset sales, the violation of which would result in an Event of Default.

The first series of Warrants (the  Series A  Warrants)
is exercisable at any time and as of January 3, 2006 represents a total of
5,859,071 shares. The second series of Warrants (the  Series B 
Warrants) became exercisable following stockholder approval of such exercise at
a special meeting of our stockholders on June 30, 2005 and as of January 3, 2006
represents a total of 3,057,595 shares. We also entered into agreements with the
investors to file registration statements with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, for the benefit of the investors, with respect to the 6% Notes and
the Warrants. Under the terms of the Warrants, the exercise price will be paid
by the investors to us solely in cash. The sale of the 6% Notes and Warrants
pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement was made in reliance on the
exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 (the
 Act ) pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Act.   

The Warrants expire on September 1, 2014, although we have the
right under certain conditions to require that they be exercised at any time if
our common stock trades at $30.00 per share or more for five consecutive trading
days assuming the shares being issued upon exercise are registered shares.

The fair value of the Warrants at the date of the transaction was
estimated at $22.5 million and was recorded in warrant liability on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet, with the offset recorded as a discount on the 6% Notes. This discount is
being amortized as interest expense using the effective interest method over the ten-year
life of the 6% Notes. The overall interest rate on the 6% Notes, considering the
amortization of the discount, is approximately 8.3%.   

EITF 00-19,  Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments
Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in a Company s Own Stock 
( EITF 00-19 ) requires freestanding contracts that are settled in a
company s own stock, including common stock warrants, to be designated as
an equity instrument, asset or liability. Under the provisions of EITF 00-19, a
contract designated as an asset or liability must be carried at fair value until
the contract meets the requirements for classification as equity, until the
contract is exercised or until the contract expires. As of December 31, 2004 and
2005, we have classified these Warrants as a liability, as noted above, because
the requirements of EITF 00-19 for classification of the Warrants as equity had
not been met. During the period the Warrants are classified as a liability, any
changes in fair value are and will continue to be reported as fair value
adjustment for Warrants in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Due primarily
to the increase in the market value of our common stock during the last quarter
of 2004, the fair market value of the Warrants increased from $22.5 million at
September 30, 2004 to $71.7 million at December 31, 2004. As a result, during
the three months ended December 31, 2004, we recorded a non-cash expense of
$49.2 million (for which no tax benefit is derived) which was reflected as fair
value adjustment for warrants on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Income. Due to changes to items which affect the calculation of the fair value
of the Warrants, primarily the change in the market value of our common stock
during the year of 2005, the estimated fair market value of these Warrants
decreased from $71.7 million at December 31, 2004 to $53.2 million at December
31, 2005. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded
non-cash income of $18.5 million (for which no tax expense is derived) which has
been reflected as fair value adjustment for warrants on the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Income. A registration statement for the Warrants was
filed with the SEC and declared effective on February 21, 2006. It is
management s belief that this was the final criteria to be met under the
provisions of EITF 00-19 for classification of the Warrants as equity.
Therefore, the volatility of our earnings resulting from the classification of
these Warrants as a liability will be limited to the change in the value of
these Warrants between December 31, 2005 and February 21, 2006. We estimate that
the value of the Warrants was $58.4 million at February 21, 2006, which will
result in a non-cash expense of $5.2 million to be recorded during the three
months ending March 31, 2006. The value of the Warrants at February 21, 2006
will be re-classified from liabilities to additional paid-in-capital during the
quarter ending March 31, 2006.   

On November 29, 2004, we sold $80.0 million total principal
amount of additional 6% Notes (the  November 2004 6% Notes ) due 2014
to eight investors under the same Indenture used for the $150.0 million
unsecured financing completed during September 2004. The terms of the November
2004 6% Notes are identical to those of the 6% Notes sold during September 2004
(as described previously in this document) with the following exceptions: (1)
there were no warrants associated with the November 2004 6% Notes and (2) the
original issue discount on the November 2004, 6% Notes was approximately 14.7%
versus 15.0% for the September 2004 6% Notes. The November 2004, 6% Notes were
sold at a discount which provided net proceeds totaling $68.1 million. The net
proceeds have been used for general corporate purposes, including, but not
limited to the purchase of equipment, retirement of debt, acquisitions, and/or
working capital.   

During 2005 and the first quarter of 2006, we, the holders of a
majority in principal amount of the 6% Notes and holders of a majority of the
Warrants, and the warrant agent for the holders of the Warrants, entered into a
series of amendments to certain agreements relating to the outstanding 6% Notes
and Warrants. These amendments extended the dates by which we were required to
take certain actions with respect to the 6% Notes and Warrants. Specifically,
the amendments (i) extended from April 30, 2005 to June 30, 2005 the date by
which we were required to seek stockholder approval for the purpose of ratifying
the issuance of the Series B Warrants, (ii) extended from May 1, 2005 to August
1, 2005 the date by which we were required to file a registration statement with
the SEC with respect to the Warrants, (iii) extended from May 1, 2005 to August
1, 2005 the date by which we were required to file a registration statement with
the SEC with respect to the 6% Notes, and (iv) extended from October 1, 2005 to
April l, 2006 the date on which liquidated damages were to become payable with
respect to the 6% Notes and/or the Warrants if they had not been registered with
the SEC. The registration statements for both the 6% Notes and the Warrants were
originally submitted to the SEC on August 1, 2005. As a result of these
amendments, we were obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to have
these registration statements declared effective by the SEC by March 6, 2006. If
either of these registration statements had not been effective by April 1, 2006,
we would have been required to pay liquidated damages to the holders of these
securities based upon a value of $150.0 million for the 6% Notes and $150.0
million for the Warrants. For the first 90 days, the amount of liquidated
damages to be paid related to the Warrants and the 6% Notes would have been
calculated using a rate of 0.25% per annum for each day the registration
statements were not effective after April 1, 2006. This percentage would have
been increased by 0.25% for each 90 day period, until these conditions were met,
up to a maximum of 1.00% per annum. The registration statement for the Warrants
was declared effective on February 21, 2006. Therefore, we will not be required
to pay liquidated damages related to the Warrants. In addition, it is
management s belief that this was the final criteria to be met under the
provisions of EITF 00-19,  Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments
Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in a Company s Own Stock , for
classification of the Warrants as equity. Therefore, the volatility of our
earnings resulting from the classification of these Warrants as a liability will
be limited to the change in the value of these Warrants between December 31,
2005 and February 21, 2006. We estimate that the value of the Warrants was $58.4
million at February 21, 2006, which will result in a non-cash expense of $5.2
million to be recorded during the three months ending March 31, 2006. The value
of the Warrants at February 21, 2006 will be re-classified from liabilities to
additional paid-in-capital during the quarter ending March 31, 2006. The
registration statement for the 6% Notes was declared effective on February 27,
2006.   

During October 2005, the Investor Rights Agreement relating to
the Warrants was amended to permanently eliminate the liquidated damages penalty
for the Warrants described above once the registration statement for the
Warrants was declared effective by the SEC. As noted above, the registration
statement for the Warrants was declared effective on February 21, 2006,
permanently eliminating the liquidated damages penalty.   

In addition, during 2005, we and the Indenture Trustee for the
6% Notes (the  Indenture Trustee ), with the consent of the holders of
a majority in principal amount of the outstanding 6% Notes, entered into several
Supplemental Indentures amending the terms of the Indenture governing the 6%
Notes. Pursuant to a Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29, 2005, the
Indenture was amended to provide that all determinations of our consolidated net
income for purpose of the restricted payments provisions in Section 4.7 of the
Indenture shall be based upon our adjusted consolidated net income, after
excluding the effect on net income of any gain or loss attributable to any
valuation adjustment relating to the Warrants. Pursuant to a Supplemental
Indenture dated as of December 16, 2005, Section 4.8 of the Indenture, which
generally prohibits the existence of contractual restrictions on the ability of
our subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions to the parent company,
Interpool Inc., was amended. The December 16, 2005 Supplemental Indenture added
a new exception to Section 4.8(b) so as to permit our subsidiaries to agree to
those restrictions that are contained in the 2005 Fortis Facility and in the
2005 DVB Facility on the ability of Interpool Limited and ICL to pay dividends
and distributions to Interpool Inc., as described above. Finally, pursuant to a
Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 19, 2005, Section 4.7 of the
Indenture, which limits the amount of cash dividends, distributions and other
restricted payments that may be made by our parent company Interpool Inc. to our
stockholders, was amended. The December 19, 2005 Supplemental Indenture modified
clause (9) of Section 4.7(b) to provide that, in addition to the other specified
exceptions, dividends and distributions may be paid in the aggregate amount of
$13.0 million (an increase from the $7.0 million permitted under the original
Indenture) from and after the date of the Indenture.   

At a Special Meeting of our Stockholders held on June 30, 2005,
holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock approved a
resolution ratifying the issuance by us of the Series B Warrants and the
issuance of common stock upon exercise of such Series B Warrants by the holders.
This affirmative vote satisfied one of the requirements of the Warrant Agreement
relating to the Warrants. As a result of this vote, the Series B Warrants are
now exercisable to purchase shares of common stock in accordance with their
terms.   

As of December 31, 2005, a total of $198.7 million ($230.0
million principal less $31.3 million unamortized discount) of the 6% Notes
issued during September and November 2004 was outstanding.   

7.35% and 7.20% Notes:   In July and August 1997, we
issued $225.0 million of ten year notes, comprised of $150.0 million of 7.35% Notes due
2007 and $75.0 million of 7.20% Notes due 2007. The net proceeds from these offerings were
used to repay secured indebtedness, to purchase equipment and for other investments.
During the third quarter of 2005, we retired $21.2 million of the 7.35% Notes and $7.4
million of the 7.20% Notes and recognized pre-tax costs related to this retirement of $0.8
million which has been reflected within loss on retirement of debt on the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2005, $94.2 million and $37.9
million principal amount of the 7.35% and 7.20% Notes, respectively, remained outstanding.   

9.25% Convertible Redeemable Subordinated
Debentures:   In December 2002, we issued $32.1 million of 9.25%
Convertible Redeemable Subordinated Debentures, and subsequently issued an
additional $5.1 million of such debentures in January and February 2003,
resulting in a total of $37.2 million of debentures issued and outstanding at
December 31, 2005. The debentures bear interest at an annual rate of 9.25%. They
have a mandatory redemption feature upon the earlier of the occurrence of a
change of control or on December 27, 2022. They have an optional redemption
feature after the third anniversary at a price of 100% of outstanding principal
plus accrued interest. They have a special redemption feature between December
27, 2006 and December 27, 2007, during which period we may redeem the debentures
by issuing common stock at $25.50 per debenture plus accrued interest if the
average closing price of our common stock for five consecutive trading days
equals or exceeds $25.50 per share. Lastly, at any time, a holder of the
debentures may convert the debentures into our common stock at a per share
conversion price of $25.00. As of December 31, 2005, $37.2 million of the 9.25%
Convertible Redeemable Subordinated Debentures remained outstanding.   

9.875% Preferred Capital Securities:   On January
27, 1997, Interpool Capital Trust, a Delaware business trust and special purpose
entity (the  Trust ), issued to outside investors 75,000 shares of
9.875% Capital Securities with an aggregate liquidation preference of $75.0
million (the  Capital Securities ) for proceeds of $75.0 million.
Interpool owns all the common securities of the Trust. The proceeds received by
the Trust from the sale of the Capital Securities were used by the Trust to
acquire $75.0 million of our 9.875% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest
Debentures due February 15, 2027 (the  Debentures ). The sole asset of
the Trust is $77.3 million aggregate principal amount of the Debentures. The
Capital Securities represent preferred beneficial interests in the Trust s
assets. Distributions on the Capital Securities are cumulative and payable at
the annual rate of 9.875% of the liquidation amount, semi-annually in arrears,
and commenced February 15, 1997. We have the option to defer payment of
distributions for an extension period of up to five years if it is in compliance
with the terms of the Capital Securities. Interest at 9.875% will accrue on such
deferred distributions throughout the extension period. The Capital Securities
will be subject to mandatory redemption upon repayment of the Debentures to the
Trust. The redemption price decreases from 104.9375% of the liquidation
preference in 2007 to 100% in 2017 and thereafter. Under certain limited
circumstances, we may, at our option, prepay the Debentures and redeem the
Capital Securities prior to 2007 at a prepayment price specified in the
governing instruments. Our obligations under the Debentures, under the Indenture
pursuant to which the Debentures were issued, under certain guarantees and under
certain back-up obligations, in the aggregate constitute a full and
unconditional guarantee by Interpool, Inc. of the obligations of the Trust under
the Capital Securities. As of December 31, 2005, $75.0 million of the 9.875%
preferred capital securities remained outstanding.   

Description of Certain Indebtedness Repaid During 2005:    

2004 Fortis Facility:   As noted above, in December
2005 we repaid the entire $303.8 million of borrowings outstanding under our
2004 Fortis Facility, using a portion of the initial advance under the 2005
Fortis Facility. Advances under the 2004 Fortis Facility were secured by
shipping containers and related leases owned by a special purpose consolidated
subsidiary and leased to various third parties. The 2004 Fortis Facility allowed
for advances from time to time up to the amount of available collateral under
the facility, subject to a maximum principal amount that could be outstanding
under the facility. The maximum amount of the 2004 Fortis Facility was initially
$252.0 million and was increased by $248.0 million during February 2005, thereby
bringing the total commitments under the 2004 Fortis Facility to $500.0 million.
When this facility was originally established in November 2004, we drew down
$243.0 million, of which $224.4 million was used to refinance other indebtedness
outstanding at the time (including the entire $154.8 million of outstanding
borrowings under a secured revolving credit facility which we terminated in
November 2004, as well as a $69.6 million loan from Fortis entered into in March
2004. The remaining $18.6 million of the initial advance under the 2004 Fortis
Facility was used for transaction fees and working capital purposes. Borrowings
under this facility bore interest at LIBOR plus 175 basis points. As required by
this facility, on March 31, 2005 we entered into three interest rate swap
contracts with original notional amounts totaling $204.9 million in order to
effectively convert a significant portion of the debt under the 2004 Fortis
Facility from floating rate debt to fixed rate debt. These interest rate swap
contracts have now been reassigned to the 2005 Fortis Facility. The 2004 Fortis
Facility had a two-year term, after which the outstanding balance would have
been paid out in full over 66 months if it had not been refinanced.   

2004 DVB Facility:   In December 2005, $100.0
million of proceeds from the initial borrowings under the 2005 DVB Facility were
used to repay the outstanding balance under a prior facility with DVB and
certain other lenders, which was originally established on December 29, 2004
with a commitment of $150.0 million. No amounts were borrowed under this
facility prior to July 1, 2005. Under the terms of this facility, the advance
rate was either 60% or 75% at our option. The interest rate was to be determined
by a pricing grid and could range from LIBOR plus 140 to 180 basis points,
depending upon our tangible debt to total net worth ratio (as defined in the
agreement) or our corporate credit rating, and the advance rate chosen. There
was a commitment fee of 45 basis points per annum on any unused portion of this
commitment, payable quarterly in arrears. As indicated above, this facility was
terminated in December 2005.   

Covenants:    

At December 31, 2005, under the 2005 Fortis and DVB Facilities,
the chassis revolving credit facility established during September 2005, and
most of our other debt instruments, we are required to maintain covenants (as
defined in each agreement) for tangible net worth (the most stringent of which
required us to maintain tangible net worth of at least $300.0 million), a fixed
charge coverage ratio of at least 1.5 to 1 and a funded debt to tangible net
worth ratio of not more than 4.0 to 1. For the most restrictive covenants,
tangible net worth includes stockholders  equity plus any  warrant
liability , our 9.875% preferred capital securities and our 9.25%
convertible redeemable subordinated debentures and any future subordinated debt,
and is reduced by goodwill and adjusted to eliminate the impact of adjustments
associated with derivative instruments; funded debt excludes the portion of debt
and capital lease obligations due within one year, our 9.875% preferred capital
securities and our 9.25% convertible redeemable subordinated debentures, and any
future subordinated debt; fixed charges include interest expense, excluding
those related to our 9.875% preferred capital securities and our 9.25%
convertible redeemable subordinated debentures and any future subordinated debt,
and lease rentals; earnings available for fixed charges include income before
depreciation and income taxes, excluding the impact of any non-cash fair value
adjustments for warrants, plus fixed charges, plus interest expense associated
with our 9.875% preferred capital securities and our 9.25% convertible
redeemable subordinated debentures and any future subordinated debt. As of
December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all covenants.   

A servicing agreement to which we are a party requires that we
maintain a tangible net worth (including our 9.875% preferred capital securities
due 2027) of at least $375.0 million plus 50% of any positive net income
reported from October 1, 2004 forward.   

Additionally, under a credit agreement, we are required to
maintain a security deposit in the aggregate amount of at least 80% of the
outstanding loan balances, including interest. This amounted to $3.6 million at
December 31, 2005, and is included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet. At December 31, 2005, under a restriction in our 6.0% Note Indenture,
approximately $9.9 million of retained earnings were available for dividends.

Settled
Insurance Litigation   

In connection with an insurance claim related to the default of
a South Korean customer and a subsequent lawsuit filed by the insurance carriers
against us, on June 17, 2004 we signed an agreement settling the lawsuit and our
claims under the policy. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, the
insurance carriers paid us a total of $26.4 million during 2004. In addition, we
received the right to retain any of the equipment we had recovered since the
date of the claim. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $6.3 million related to the
$26.4 million settlement, which is recorded in gain on insurance settlement on
the Consolidated Statements of Income.   

Gain on Sale of
Equity Investment   

In September 2005, we received cash proceeds of approximately
$15.0 million from the sale of a non-transportation company in which we held a
minority equity position since 1997. We accounted for this investment using the
equity method of accounting. The carrying value of our initial investment of
$11.3 million had been reduced to $2.0 million through the recording of equity
losses and through the recognition of impairment losses on this investment. No
tax benefits related to these losses had been recorded since the realization of
these benefits was not assured. The sale of our investment resulted in a pre-tax
gain of $13.0 million ($11.5 million after tax) and has been reflected as gain
on the sale of equity investment in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Income. Additional funds that may become due to us (subject to indemnity
provisions and any contractual post-closing adjustments) totaling approximately
$2.3 million (which are included in other receivables in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets) are being held in escrow by the buyers for a period
of up to 18 months.   

CAI  

We own a 50% common equity interest in CAI, which we acquired in
April 1998. The remaining 50% common equity interest in CAI is owned by
CAI s Chief Executive Officer, Hiro Ogawa. CAI owns and leases-in its own
fleet of containers and also manages, for a fee, containers owned by us and by
third parties. We entered into our operating relationship with CAI primarily to
facilitate the leasing in the short-term market of containers coming off
long-term operating lease, to gain access to new companies looking to lease
containers on a long-term basis and to realize cost efficiencies from the
operation of a coordinated container lease marketing group. For containers
managed by CAI for us in the short-term market, we earn the net operating income
and pay CAI a fee for managing our equipment and leasing it on our behalf. The
management fee calculation is based on the average daily net operating income of
CAI s fleet of owned, leased-in and managed containers (including the
portion of CAI s fleet that consists of our equipment) for each day such
managed containers are part of the CAI fleet. The marketing group, which is
organized as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Interpool, is responsible for
soliciting container lease business for both Interpool and CAI, including
long-term operating and direct financing lease business and short-term lease
business under master lease agreements. Pursuant to our agreements with CAI, we
have a right to purchase all long-term operating and direct financing lease
business generated by the marketing group, subject to offering to CAI, at cost,
10% of this long-term operating and direct financing lease business plus an
additional portion of the long-term lease business to be mutually agreed with
CAI for sale by CAI to investors for whom CAI manages containers. By mutual
agreement, CAI has purchased for its own account and for the account of third
party investors long-term operating and direct financing lease business the
marketing group has generated in excess of 10% of the marketing group s
long-term operating and direct financing lease business. Our existing agreements
with CAI also contemplated that we would pay CAI an annual  Earn Out 
fee in consideration for the transfer of CAI s marketing employees to the
marketing group, but, to date, by mutual agreement, this provision has been
waived. In addition, on occasion, we have entered into transactions with CAI
pursuant to which we have acquired equipment, and the related leases, from CAI
on terms that resulted in a profit for CAI. Such equipment, as well as certain
other containers purchased from time to time, are currently managed for us by
CAI for a fee based upon the actual net operating income earned by such
containers, or in certain instances, for a flat fee.   

In April 2004, we reached an agreement with CAI resolving a
number of open matters relating to the various agreements between the two
companies, including appropriate remedial compensation for age differences
between our containers managed by CAI and the balance of CAI s managed
fleet, pursuant to certain provisions of the Operating and Administration
Agreement between us and CAI (the  CAI Agreement ). Pursuant to this
agreement with CAI, during 2004 we paid CAI $2.0 million for resolution of these
open issues through February 29, 2004. The impact of this agreement was recorded
by us during the three months ended March 31, 2004, as a reduction in
consolidated pre-tax income of $1.0 million ($0.6 million net of tax). As a
result of this agreement, we anticipate that the earnings related to certain of
our containers managed by CAI will be reduced to the extent the average age of
such containers exceeds the average age of all other containers in CAI s
fleet.   

In connection with the acquisition of our 50% common equity
interest in CAI in 1998, we loaned CAI $33.7 million under a subordinated note
agreement, which is collateralized by all containers owned by CAI as of April
30, 1998 or thereafter acquired, subject to the priority security interest lien
of CAI s senior credit facility, except for certain excluded collateral.
Interest on this subordinated note is at an annual fixed rate of 10.5% and is
payable quarterly. The original repayment terms required mandatory quarterly
principal payments of $1.7 million beginning July 30, 2003 and ending on April
30, 2008. The subordinated note was subject to certain financial covenants and
was cross-collateralized with CAI s senior credit facility, subject to the
terms of a subordination agreement.   

On June 27, 2002, CAI entered into an amended $110.0 million
senior revolving credit agreement with a group of financial institutions. To
facilitate the closing of this new credit facility, we agreed to extend the
repayment terms of our subordinated note so as to require mandatory quarterly
principal payments of $1.7 million beginning July 30, 2006 and ending on April
30, 2011. We also agreed to modify certain financial covenants in the
subordinated note. Interest on the subordinated note continues to accrue at an
annual fixed rate of 10.5%, payable quarterly. The subordinated note continued
to be cross-collateralized with CAI s senior credit agreement, subject to
the terms of an amended and restated subordination agreement. In connection with
these modifications, Mr. Ogawa, CAI s Chief Executive Officer and the owner
of the 50% common equity interest in CAI that we do not own, agreed that we
would have the right to designate a majority of the members of CAI s board
of directors, so long as the subordinated note remained outstanding. As a result
of these transactions and gaining a majority position on CAI s board, our
financial statements have included CAI as a consolidated subsidiary since June
27, 2002.   

On April 28, 2005, CAI replaced its $110.0 million secured
revolving credit facility, which had an outstanding principal balance of $58.5
million as of March 31, 2005 (not including letters of credit in the aggregate
amount of $6.0 million as of March 31, 2005) and was scheduled to expire on June
27, 2005, with a new senior secured revolving credit facility. The new credit
facility has a total commitment amount of up to $175.0 million and was provided
by a group of banks. The interest rate under the revolving line of credit varies
depending upon whether the loans are characterized as base rate loans or
Eurodollar rate loans. In addition, there is a commitment fee on the unused
amount of the total commitment which fee is payable quarterly in arrears. The
new credit facility provides that swing line loans (up to $10.0 million in the
aggregate) and standby letters of credit (up to $15.0 million in the aggregate)
will be available to CAI, which sublimits are part of, and not in addition to,
the total commitment of $175.0 million under the new credit facility. The term
of this revolving credit facility is three years. The revolving credit facility
contains various financial and other covenants.   

On April 28, 2005, in connection with the first advance under a new
secured revolving credit facility established by CAI, CAI repaid the outstanding
principal balance of $58.0 million on the existing revolving credit facility
(plus interest and additional fees) and repaid $15.2 million of the amounts owed
to us under the outstanding $33.7 million subordinated note issued by CAI to us
in 1998. This repayment returned the subordinated note to the original payment
schedule in effect before it was modified in 2002. The remaining balance of the
subordinated note, totaling $16.8 million as of December 31, 2005, is required
to be repaid in equal quarterly installments of approximately $1.7 million
through April 30, 2008. In addition, the financial covenants associated with
this subordinated note were amended in April 2005.   

A total of $64.0 million and $65.0 million was outstanding under
CAI s senior revolving credit facilities at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Borrowings under CAI s senior credit facility are secured by
substantially all of CAI s assets, other than certain excluded assets. The
senior credit facility contains various financial and other covenants. At
December 31, 2005, CAI was in compliance with these covenants.   

As noted above, in connection with the June 2002 modifications
to our subordinated note, Mr. Ogawa agreed that, until the subordinated note is
paid in full, we would have the right to designate a majority of the members of
CAI s board of directors. Since the time this agreement was entered into,
CAI s board of directors has consisted of five directors, three of whom
were appointed by us and two of whom were appointed by Mr. Ogawa. CAI management
has advised us that CAI may wish to repay the remaining balance of the
subordinated note during 2006 and CAI has obtained the consent of the lenders
under its new secured revolving credit facility to make such repayment. Under
the terms of the amended Shareholder Agreement between us and Mr. Ogawa, this
repayment would result in CAI s board of directors being comprised of an
equal number of directors appointed by us and by Mr. Ogawa. Any such change in
the composition of CAI s board of directors would require that we no longer
consolidate CAI in our financial statements from and after the date of such
change. Instead, we would record our investment in CAI under the equity method
of accounting. We have had preliminary discussions with Mr. Ogawa about
potential modifications to the Shareholder Agreement that would preserve our
majority position on CAI s board of directors for some period of time after
a repayment of the subordinated note. To date, no agreement has been reached on
any such modifications, nor has CAI made a firm decision to repay the
subordinated note prior to its final maturity in April 2008. See Note 11 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.   

In May 1998, CAI granted options to certain of its key employees to
purchase Series A cumulative preferred stock of CAI. Each of these individuals
was given the opportunity to exercise these options by investing the after tax
proceeds from stock appreciation rights previously granted to these employees.
In addition, CAI provided a full recourse loan to finance the remaining portion
of the exercise price. This loan was in the form of a promissory note that was
secured by a pledge of the stock acquired through the exercise of the options.
The options were exercised in May 1998 at an exercise price of $496.11 per share
and, at December 31, 2005, there were 1,726 outstanding shares of this CAI
preferred stock.   

So long as the preferred stock has not yet been redeemed by CAI or the
employee, at such time as a liquidity event takes place, defined as an initial
public offering or a sale to parties other than Mr. Ogawa or Interpool, the
preferred stock will be converted into an equal number of shares of CAI s
common stock. This preferred stock is subject to variable accounting in
CAI s financial statements for the portion of the preferred stock acquired
using the proceeds of the loan from CAI. During the years ended December 31,
2003 and 2004, the management of CAI concluded that there was no change to the
valuation of the preferred shares of CAI and, therefore, no stock compensation
charge was recorded in CAI's financial statements for those periods. In the
fourth quarter of 2005, CAI determined that a change in the valuation of its
preferred shares had, in fact, taken place during these periods as well as for
the year ended December 31, 2005. We have determined that the effect of this
previously undetected error related to CAI's valuation of its preferred stock and
corresponding stock compensation charge is
immaterial to our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December
31, 2003 and 2004. In order to properly reflect these adjustments for the three
years ended December 31, 2005, we recorded additional compensation expense of
$4.5 million ($2.2 million, net of minority interest income) during the fourth
quarter of 2005.

During the third quarter of 2005, pursuant to the terms of the Shareholder
Agreement we entered into with Mr. Ogawa when we acquired our 50% common equity
interest in CAI in 1998, Mr. Ogawa notified us that he was exercising his
contractual right to request an independent valuation of CAI. An investment
banking firm was engaged by CAI s board of directors to conduct this
valuation and the valuation was completed during the fourth quarter of 2005. We
advised Mr. Ogawa that, after review of this valuation, we had decided not to
exercise our right under the Shareholder Agreement to make an offer to acquire
his 50% common equity interest in CAI for an amount equal to his percentage
interest of the fair value of CAI as determined by the investment banking firm.
The Shareholder Agreement provides that if we do not elect to make such an
offer, Mr. Ogawa has a right to require CAI to take the necessary steps to
effect an initial public offering to sell his equity, with all costs associated
with any such initial public offering of CAI being borne by CAI. Mr. Ogawa has
requested that CAI proceed with the steps necessary to register his equity
interest in CAI for sale by him in an initial public offering. In response to
Mr. Ogawa s request, CAI has engaged an investment banking firm to manage
an initial public offering. CAI and its investment bankers, together with their
advisors, have commenced preparation of an S-1 registration statement for filing
with the SEC sometime during 2006. In the event that CAI s initial public
offering is consummated, CAI would become a public company. In connection with
CAI s anticipated public offering, we expect to consider potential changes
to the terms of the existing agreements between us and CAI and to the terms of
the Shareholder Agreement between us and Mr. Ogawa. To date, however, no
agreement has been reached regarding any such changes. In addition, we are
currently evaluating the impact of CAI s initial public offering on our
current 50% common equity position in CAI. CAI s ability to complete a
public offering will depend upon a number of factors, including market
conditions, industry conditions and developments in CAI s business.
Accordingly, there is no assurance that CAI s public offering will be
completed within the anticipated time frame or at all.   

Chassis Holdings I, LLC   

For many years, The Ivy Group, a New Jersey general partnership composed
directly or indirectly of certain of our current and former directors and
executive officers, together with certain of its principals, leased chassis to
our wholly-owned subsidiary Trac Lease, Inc. ( Trac Lease ) for use in
Trac Lease s business. As of January 1, 2001, Trac Lease leased a total of
6,047 chassis from The Ivy Group and its principals for an aggregate annual
lease payment of approximately $2.6 million.   On July 1, 2001, we
restructured our relationship with The Ivy Group and its principals to provide
us with managerial control over the 6,047 chassis previously leased by Trac
Lease from The Ivy Group and its principals. As a result of the restructuring,
the partners of The Ivy Group contributed these 6,047 chassis and certain other
assets and liabilities to a newly formed subsidiary, Chassis Holdings I, LLC
( Chassis Holdings ), in exchange for $26.0 million face value of
preferred membership units and 10% of the common membership units, and Trac
Lease contributed 902 chassis and two thousand dollars in cash to Chassis
Holdings in exchange for $3.0 million face value of preferred membership units
and 90% of the common membership units. The preferred membership units are
entitled to receive a preferred return prior to the receipt of any distributions
by the holders of the common membership units. The value of the contributed
chassis was determined by taking the arithmetic average of the results of
independent appraisals performed by three nationally recognized appraisal firms
in connection with our establishment of a chassis securitization facility in
July 2000. As the managing member of Chassis Holdings, Trac Lease exercises sole
managerial control over the entity s operations. Chassis Holdings leases
all of its chassis to Trac Lease at a rental rate equal to the then current Trac
Lease fleet average per diem. Chassis Holdings and the holders of the preferred
membership units are party to a Put/Call Agreement providing that the holders of
preferred units may put such units to Chassis Holdings under certain
circumstances and Chassis Holdings has the right to redeem such units under
certain circumstances. Chassis Holdings will be required to make certain option
payments to the holders of the preferred membership units in order to preserve
its right to redeem such units. Dividends paid on the common units and
distributions on the preferred units totaling $3.1 million, $3.1 million and
$2.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively, are included in minority interest expense, net in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Income.   

Chassis Distribution
Agreement   

In April 2003, we agreed to become a 50% owner through an initial
investment of $0.5 million of a limited liability company (the  LLC )
formed with a foreign chassis manufacturer. The purpose of the LLC is to be the
exclusive worldwide distributor of chassis built by this manufacturer and for us
to share in the profits the LLC earns in selling these chassis to third parties.
Under the terms of the distribution agreement for this equipment, we have agreed
to purchase at least 15,000 chassis at preferred pricing over a ten-year period,
of which 10,151 chassis were purchased or ordered by us through December 31,
2005. We may elect to purchase additional equipment during the ten-year period
at identical terms. The LLC began operations during the second quarter of 2003.
We consolidate the financial statements of the LLC.   

Share Repurchases
Associated with Exercise of Stock Options   

In September 2005, Mr. Raoul Witteveen, our former President, advised us
that he intended to exercise 500,000 stock options under the terms of the 1993
Stock Option Plan. These options had an exercise price of $10.25 per share and
the market value at the date he exercised his options was $17.99 per share. In
accordance with the terms of the 1993 Stock Option Plan, Mr. Witteveen paid the
aggregate exercise price for these options by tendering to us a total of 284,880
shares of the Company s common stock he then owned, which under the 1993
Stock Option Plan were valued at their total fair market value based on the
market price of the common stock at the date of exercise. In addition, Mr.
Witteveen reimbursed us in cash for the tax withholding related to the exercise.

The 284,880 shares delivered to us have been recorded as treasury shares,
at their market value at the date of exercise on the accompanying Consolidated
Balance Sheets. The exercise resulted in the issuance of 500,000 shares at a par
value of $.001 and increased additional paid-in-capital by approximately $5.1
million. In addition, since these options were granted to Mr. Witteveen as
compensation for services rendered, we are entitled to claim a tax deduction for
non-employee compensation on our 2005 federal tax return. A tax benefit based on
the difference between the market price of the stock as of the modification date
and the exercise price was recorded in October 2003 at the time we recognized
compensation expense relating to a modification of the options. The increase in
the stock price from the modification date ($16.47 per share) to the exercise
date ($17.99 per share) resulted in an additional tax benefit (amounting to $0.3
million), which has been recorded as additional paid-in capital at the time
these options were exercised in 2005.   

In December 2004, Warren L. Serenbetz (a former member of our Board of
Directors) advised us that he intended to exercise 668,438 stock options which
represented the remaining options issued to him under the terms of the 1993
Stock Option Plan. In addition, Mr. Serenbetz requested, and the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors allowed him, to exercise these options on a
cashless basis. These options had an exercise price of $10.25 per share and the
market value at the date he exercised his options was $22.05 per share.

In connection with the cashless exercise feature, we withheld 310,725
shares with a market value of $6.9 million representing the cost to Mr.
Serenbetz of exercising these options. In addition, we withheld 110,086 shares
with a market value of $2.4 million representing the amounts advanced to Mr.
Serenbetz for the payment of his minimum taxes related to the exercise. The
remaining 247,627 shares were issued to Mr. Serenbetz.   

The 420,811 shares withheld by the Company for the exercise price of the
options and Mr. Serenbetz s minimum taxes have been recorded as treasury
shares, at their market value at the date of exercise on the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The exercise also resulted in the issuance of
668,438 shares at a par value of $0.001 and increased additional paid-in-capital
by $6.9 million. In addition, since these options were granted to Mr. Serenbetz
as compensation for services rendered, we are entitled to claim a tax deduction
for non-employee compensation on our 2004 federal tax return. Since we did not
recognize compensation expense on the grant or exercise of these options, the
tax benefit (amounting to $3.1 million) has been recorded as additional
paid-in-capital at the time these options were exercised.   

No shares were repurchased during 2003.   

Stock Options Exercised
for Cash   

On October 3, 2005, Mr. Raoul Witteveen, former President of the Company,
exercised his remaining 640,000 options under the terms of the 1993 Stock Option
Plan. These options had an exercise price of $10.25 per share and the shares had
a market value of $18.32 per share at the exercise date. In connection with the
exercise, Mr. Witteveen remitted $6.6 million in cash to the Company for the
exercise of the options and an additional sum to pay for his estimated tax
withholding. The exercise resulted in the issuance of 640,000 shares at a par
value of $0.001 and increased additional paid-in-capital of approximately $6.6
million. In addition, since these options were granted to Mr. Witteveen as
compensation for services rendered, the Company is entitled to claim a tax
deduction for non-employee compensation on its 2005 federal tax return. A tax
benefit based on the difference between the market price of the stock as of the
modification date and the exercise price was recorded in October 2003 at the
time the Company recognized compensation expense relating to a modification of
the options. The increase in the stock price from the modification date ($16.47
per share) to the exercise date ($18.32 per share) resulted in an additional tax
benefit (amounting to $0.5 million), which has been recorded as additional paid
in-capital during the fourth quarter of 2005.   

United States Federal
Income Tax   

We are subject to federal and state income taxes as a Subchapter
 C  corporation under the Internal Revenue Code. Interpool, Trac Lease
and other United States subsidiaries file a consolidated United States federal
income tax return. This consolidated group is liable for federal income taxes on
its worldwide income.   

Personal Holding Company Issues.   The federal income
tax laws have two requirements for classifying a company as a personal holding
company. We and our subsidiaries currently satisfy the first requirement, the
ownership of more than 50% of the value of Interpool s stock by five or
fewer individuals. The second requirement is that at least 60% of such
corporation s adjusted ordinary gross income constitutes personal holding
company income, which depends upon the income mix for the year.   

Based upon the operating results for 2005, and principally due to the
$305.0 million distribution made by Interpool Limited pursuant to the
implemented repatriation plan, we will be considered a personal holding company
for federal income tax purposes for 2005. As a personal holding company, in
addition to our regular federal income tax liability our undistributed personal
holding company income (generally taxable income with certain adjustments,
including a deduction for federal income taxes and dividends paid) will be
subject to a personal holding company tax at the rate of 15%. However, the
regular dividends and the special dividends paid during 2005 combined with the
additional special dividend paid on January 17, 2006 are sufficient to avoid
having any undistributed personal holding company income for 2005, and no
personal holding company tax will be imposed for 2005. There can be no
assurance, however, that we will not at some point in the future become liable
for personal holding company tax. Furthermore, we may at some point in the
future elect to increase the dividend rate on our common stock in order to avoid
personal holding company tax.   

We have incurred certain losses from leasing activities that are
characterized for tax purposes as  Suspended Passive Activity Losses. 
These losses can be carried forward indefinitely to offset income from future
leasing activities. As of December 31, 2005, such suspended passive activity
loss carryovers, including the passive activity loss carryovers of CAI, totaled
approximately $371.0 million.   

Interpool Limited and ICL.   Under certain
circumstances, Interpool may be liable for United States federal income taxes on
earnings of Interpool Limited, ICL and any other foreign subsidiaries of ours,
whether or not such earnings are distributed to us. This would occur if
Interpool Limited, ICL or any other foreign subsidiary of ours, realized
 Subpart F income  as defined in the Code or if it were to have
an increase in earnings invested in United States property.   

Subpart F income includes foreign personal holding company income, such as
dividends, interest and rents. Although a substantial portion of Interpool
Limited s and ICL s income consists of rents from container leasing
activities, we believe that such rents are not Subpart F income because they are
derived from the active conduct of a trade or business and received from
unrelated persons. However, Interpool Limited has received some dividend and
interest income in past years, which was taxed as Subpart F income. In
addition, during 2005 another foreign subsidiary of ours, Interpool Finance
Corporation, received some interest income which was taxed as Subpart F income.

A parent company is also subject to taxation when a foreign subsidiary
increases the amount of its earnings invested in United States property during
any calendar year. We do not expect that Interpool Limited, ICL or any other
foreign subsidiary of ours will invest any earnings in United States property.

Repatriation.   In October 2004, the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004 (the  AJCA ) was signed into law. The AJCA
created a temporary incentive for U.S. multinationals, such as Interpool, to
repatriate accumulated income earned outside the U.S. at an effective U.S.
federal tax rate of approximately 5.25%. On December 27, 2005, pursuant to the
AJCA, Interpool, Inc. s wholly-owned Barbados subsidiary, Interpool
Limited, made a distribution to Interpool, Inc. of approximately $305.0 million
(the  Distribution ), as part of a plan approved by Interpool,
Inc. s Board of Directors to repatriate accumulated and current earnings
and profits of Interpool Limited, which previously had been considered
permanently reinvested outside the United States. During 2005, we recorded
expenses related to the Distribution of $23.1 million which included a federal
tax provision expense and current tax liability of $17.6 million due to the
Distribution and a state tax provision expense and current tax liability of $2.4
million due to Interpool Limited s transfer of substantially all of its
operating assets and liabilities to Interpool Containers Limited.  

United States/Barbados Income Tax Convention.   The
business of Interpool Limited and ICL is managed and controlled in Barbados.
Under the income tax convention between the United States and Barbados,
including any protocols and amendments (the  Tax Treaty ), any profits
of Interpool Limited or ICL from leasing of containers used in international
trade generally are taxable only in Barbados and not in the United States.

Interpool Limited and ICL are entitled to the benefits of the Tax
Convention for each year by satisfying the two-pronged test to the
 limitation of benefits  provision: (1) more than 50% of the shares of
Interpool Limited and ICL are owned, directly or indirectly, by any combination
of individual United States residents or citizens (the  51% U.S. ownership
test ), and (2) its income is not used in substantial part, directly or
indirectly, to meet liabilities to persons who are not residents or citizens of
the United States (the  base erosion test ). We believe Interpool
Limited and ICL passed both of these tests and were eligible for the benefits of
the Tax Treaty through December 31, 2005. If Interpool Limited or ICL had ceased
to be eligible for the benefits of the Tax Treaty, a substantial portion of its
income would become subject to the 35% United States federal income tax and the
30% branch profits tax.   

In addition to having to satisfy the 51% U.S. ownership and base erosion
tests described above, starting January 1, 2005 Interpool Limited and ICL are
only eligible for the Tax Treaty benefits with respect to its container rental
and sales income if Interpool, Inc. is listed on a  recognized stock
exchange  and Interpool, Inc. s stock is  primarily  and
 regularly  traded on such exchange.   

During April 2004 Interpool, Inc. was de-listed by the New York Stock
Exchange. During this de-listing, our common stock was traded on the
over-the-counter market under the symbol IPLI. In December 2004, after making
all delinquent SEC filings, we applied for relisting on the New York Stock
Exchange. On January 13, 2005 our common stock was re-listed on the New York
Stock Exchange; a  recognized stock exchange  within the meaning of
the Tax Treaty. Interpool believes this listing and its current trading volume
satisfies the  primarily  and  regularly  traded
requirements of the Tax Treaty, that Interpool Limited qualified again for
benefits under the Tax Treaty on January 13, 2005, and that ICL qualified under
the Tax Treaty when it began operations as of close of business on November 30,
2005. We have estimated there should be no U.S. current tax expense for the
period January 1, 2005 to January 12, 2005, when Interpool Limited was not
eligible for the Tax Treaty.   

Barbados Tax Returns.   As companies resident in
Barbados, Interpool Limited and ICL are required to file tax returns in Barbados
and pay any tax liability to Barbados. Prior to the third quarter of 2005, no
Barbados tax returns had been prepared or filed for Interpool Limited for any
period subsequent to its 1997 tax year. As of September 30, 2005, all previously
outstanding Barbados tax returns (1998-2004 tax years) were filed. There was no
underpayment of taxes, interest or penalties (other than a nominal late filing
penalty) with the filing of these returns.   

State and Local Taxes    

Income Taxes.   Interpool and Trac Lease are liable for
state and local income taxes on their income, and Interpool Limited and ICL are
liable for state and local income taxes on its earnings attributable to
operations in the United States, if any.   

Sales Tax.   To date, Interpool, Trac Lease, Interpool
Limited, and ICL generally have not paid sales taxes on their long-term leasing
revenues to the states in which they conduct business because management
believes such revenues to be exempt from state sales taxes on several grounds,
including a long-standing interpretation of the Commerce Clause of the United
States Constitution that would prohibit the imposition of a tax on cargo
containers and chassis used primarily for transportation of goods in interstate
commerce or international trade. Under the terms of our equipment leases, in the
event sales tax is imposed, we would generally be entitled to recover any such
sales tax from our lessees. We do, however, collect and remit sales tax on their
short-term chassis pool (intrastate) activity.   

Inflation    

Management believes that inflation has not had a material
adverse effect on our results of operations. In the past, the effects of
inflation on administrative and operating expenses have been largely offset
through economies of scale achieved through expansion of the business.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates    

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to use judgment in
making estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting
period and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements. Management has identified the policies and estimates
below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our
results of operations. For a detailed discussion on these and other significant
accounting policies, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These
policies and estimates are considered critical due to the existence of
uncertainty at the time the estimate is made, the likelihood of changes in
estimates from period to period and the potential impact that these estimates
can have on our financial statements. The following accounting policies and
estimates include inherent risks and uncertainties related to judgments and
assumptions made by management. Management s estimates are based on the
relevant information available at the end of each period.   

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts     The allowance
for doubtful accounts is set on a quarterly basis and is based on the risk
profile of the receivables, credit quality indicators such as the level of past
due amounts and non-performing accounts and economic conditions, as well as the
value of underlying collateral. Changes in economic conditions or other events
may necessitate additions or deductions to the allowance for doubtful accounts.
The allowance is intended to provide for losses inherent in the accounts
receivable, and requires the application of estimates and judgments as to the
outcome of collection efforts and the realization of collateral, among other
things.   

Accounting for Leasing Equipment     Long-lived
assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives to residual values that approximate fair value. Equipment useful lives are
based upon actual experience in our fleet as well as the useful lives assigned
to the equipment by independent appraisers. We continue to review our
depreciation policies on a regular basis to evaluate if changes have taken place
that would suggest that a change in the depreciation policies is warranted.
Periodically a determination is made as to whether the carrying amount of the
fleet exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows. In addition, all
idle equipment is evaluated to determine whether the units will be repaired and
returned to service or sold based upon the best economic alternative. Assets to
be disposed are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value.

Lease Residual Values     Operating lease
equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and is depreciated to
estimated residual values using the straight-line basis of depreciation over
their estimated useful lives. Direct financing leases are recorded at the
aggregated future minimum lease payments, including any bargain or economically
compelled purchase options granted to the customer, less unearned income. We
generally bear greater risk in operating lease transactions (versus direct
financing lease transactions) due to redeployment costs and related risks that
are avoided under a direct financing lease. Management performs annual reviews
of the estimated residual values which can vary depending on a number of
factors.   

Goodwill     Goodwill, in accordance with SFAS No.
142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  ( SFAS 142 ) is
reviewed for possible impairment at least annually during the fourth quarter of
each fiscal year. A review of goodwill may be initiated prior to conducting the
annual analysis if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value of goodwill may be impaired. During this review, management relies on a
number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic
projections, anticipated future cash flows and market place data.   

Accounting for Customer Defaults     We have
sought to reduce credit risk by maintaining insurance against customer
insolvency and equipment related losses. We cease the recognition of lease
revenues for amounts billable to the lessee after the lease default date at the
time we determine that such amounts are not probable of collection from the
lessee. In connection with the accounting for the insurance policy, we record a
receivable which is limited to the actual costs incurred or losses recognized
that would have been billable to the lessee pursuant to the lease contract
(which are also covered by the insurance contracts). Items that are covered
under the insurance contracts, for amounts billable to the lessee in accordance
with the lease, that are in excess of costs incurred and losses recognized by
us, are considered a gain contingency.   

Derivative Financial Instruments     We utilize
interest rate swaps to hedge against the effects of future interest rate
fluctuations. We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading
or speculative purposes.   

On January 1, 2001, we adopted SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities  ( SFAS 133 ). Derivative
instruments are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at their fair values
in accounts payable and accrued expenses and changes in fair values are
recognized immediately in earnings, unless the derivatives qualify as hedges of
future cash flows. For derivatives qualifying as hedges of future cash flows,
the effective portion of changes in fair value is recorded temporarily in
accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) as a separate component of equity,
and contractual cash flows, along with the related impact of the hedged items,
continue to be recognized in earnings. Any ineffective portion of a hedge is
reported in current earnings. Amounts accumulated in other comprehensive
income/(loss) are reclassified to earnings in the same period that the hedged
transaction impacts earnings.   

The net interest differential, including premiums paid or received, if
any, on interest rate swaps, is recognized on an accrual basis as an adjustment
to interest expense to correspond with the hedged position. We may, at our
discretion, terminate or redesignate any interest rate swap agreement prior to
maturity. At that time, any gains or losses on termination would continue to
amortize into income to correspond to the recognition of interest on the hedged
debt. If such debt instrument was also terminated, the gain or loss associated
with the terminated derivative included in accumulated other comprehensive loss
at the time of termination of the debt would be recognized in the Consolidated
Income Statement at that time.   

Warrant Valuation     As of December 31, 2005, our
outstanding warrants are classified as a liability in accordance with EITF
00-19. Under the provisions of EITF 00-19, a contract designated as an asset or
liability must be carried at fair value until the contract meets the
requirements for treatment as equity, until the contract is exercised or until
the contract expires. Accordingly, future changes to the fair market value of
these Warrants have the potential to cause volatility in our future results. For
the period of time that these Warrants are classified as a liability, any
increase in the fair market value of the Warrants will result in an additional
non-cash expense to the Consolidated Statements of Income. To the extent the
fair market value of the Warrants decreases during this period, we will record
non-cash income in our Consolidated Statements of Income. A registration
statement for the Warrants was filed with the SEC and was declared effective on
February 21, 2006. It is management s belief that this was the final
criteria to be met under the provisions of EITF 00-19 for classification of the
Warrants as equity. Therefore, the volatility of our earnings resulting from the
classification of these Warrants as a liability will be limited to the change in
the value of these Warrants between December 31, 2005 and February 21, 2006. See
Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Income Taxes     Deferred tax liabilities and
assets are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events that
have been reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Deferred tax
liabilities and assets are determined based on the differences between the book
values and the tax basis of particular assets and liabilities, using tax rates
in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. A
valuation allowance is provided to offset any net deferred tax assets if, based
upon the available evidence which may be subject to management estimates, it is
more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
realized.   

In certain situations, a taxing authority may challenge positions adopted
in our income tax filings. We may apply a different tax treatment for these
selected transactions in filing the tax return than for income tax financial
reporting purposes. We regularly assess the tax positions for such transactions
and include reserves for those differences in position. The reserves are
utilized or reversed once the statute of limitations has expired or the matter
is otherwise resolved. In addition, we believe the ultimate outcome of these
matters will not have a material impact on the Company s financial
condition or liquidity.   

Through December 31, 2005 we claimed tax benefits under an income tax
convention between the United States and Barbados ( Tax Treaty ), the
jurisdiction in which our subsidiaries, Interpool Limited and ICL, operate our
international container leasing business, are incorporated. Specifically, under
the Tax Treaty, any profits of Interpool Limited or ICL from leasing of
containers used in international trade generally are taxable only in Barbados at
an approximate 3% tax rate, and not in the United States. Interpool Limited and
ICL are entitled to the benefits of the Tax Treaty for each year that more than
50% of the shares of Interpool Limited and ICL were owned, directly or
indirectly, by any combination of individual United States residents or citizens
(the  51% U.S. ownership test ) and its income was not used in
substantial part, directly or indirectly, to meet liabilities to persons who
were not residents or citizens of the United States (the  base erosion
test ). We believe Interpool Limited and ICL passed both of these tests
through December 31, 2005.   

Beginning January 1, 2005, in addition to having to satisfy the 51% U.S.
ownership and base erosion tests described above, Interpool Limited and ICL are
only eligible for the Tax Treaty benefits with respect to its container rental
and sales income if Interpool, Inc. is listed on a  recognized stock
exchange  and Interpool, Inc. s stock is  primarily  and
 regularly  traded on such exchange.   

As described elsewhere in this report, on January 13, 2005 our common
stock was listed on the New York Stock Exchange, a  recognized stock
exchange  within the meaning of the post-2004 Treaty. Interpool believes
this listing and its current trading volume satisfies the  primarily 
and  regularly  traded requirements of the Tax Treaty, that Interpool
Limited qualified for benefits under the Tax Treaty again on January 13, 2005,
and that ICL qualified for the benefits under the Tax Treaty when it began
operations. We have estimated there should be no U.S. current tax expense for
the period January 1, 2005 to January 12, 2005, when Interpool Limited was not
eligible for the Tax Treaty.   

Historically, no deferred U.S. Federal income taxes have been provided on
the unremitted earnings of Interpool Limited since it is our past practice and
future intention to permanently reinvest such earnings. No deferred U.S. Federal
income taxes have been provided on the unremitted earnings of ICL since it is
our current and future intention to permanently reinvest such earnings. We have
documented our ability to reinvest earnings generated annually from our
international operations. This documentation contains certain management
judgments and estimates of economic conditions and the future demand for
containers. Any unremitted earnings that we would be unable to reinvest in our
international operations could be subject to taxation at United States tax
rates.   

In October 2004, the AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA created a
temporary incentive for U.S. multinationals, such as Interpool, to repatriate
accumulated income earned outside the U.S. at an effective U.S. federal tax rate
of approximately 5.25%. On December 27, 2005, pursuant to the AJCA, Interpool
Limited made a distribution to Interpool, Inc. of approximately
$305.0 million (the  Distribution ), as part of a plan approved
by Interpool, Inc. s Board of Directors to repatriate accumulated and
current earnings and profits of Interpool Limited, which previously had been
considered permanently reinvested outside the United States. During 2005, we
recorded expenses related to the Distribution of $23.1 million which included
federal tax provision expense and current tax liability of $17.6 million due to
the Distribution and a state tax provision expense and current tax liability of
$2.4 million due to Interpool Limited s transfer of substantially all of
its operating assets and liabilities to Interpool Containers Limited.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements    

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes
and Error Corrections , ( SFAS 154 ). This new standard replaces
Accounting Principles Board Opinion 20,  Accounting Changes , and FASB No.
3,  Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements . Among
other changes, SFAS 154 requires that a voluntary change in accounting principle
be applied retrospectively with all prior period financial statements presented
using the new accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to do so. SFAS
154 also provides that (1) a change in method of depreciating or amortizing a
long-lived non-financial asset be accounted for as a change in estimate
(prospectively) that was effected by a change in accounting principle, and (2)
correction of errors in previously issued financial statements should be termed
a  restatement.  The new standard is effective for accounting changes
and correction of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005.
We believe the adoption of the provisions of SFAS 154 will not have a material
impact on our results of operations, financial positions or liquidity.

In December 2004, the FASB published SFAS No. 123(R),
 Share-Based Payment , ( SFAS 123 (R) ) which will be effective
for periods beginning after June 15, 2005. We currently account for our stock
option plans in accordance with SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation  ( SFAS 148 ). This Statement amends SFAS No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ), which
allows for the retention of principles within Accounting Principles Board
Opinion 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB
25 ). As permitted, we have chosen to continue to account for stock-based
compensation using the intrinsic value method described in APB 25 and related
interpretations. APB 25 generally requires compensation costs, if any, to be
recognized for the difference between the exercise price and the market price of
the underlying stock on the date of the grant. Alternatively, SFAS 123(R)
employs fair value-based measurement and generally results in the recognition of
compensation expense for all stock-based awards. The adoption of SFAS 123(R)
will require the recognition of compensation expense for all share-based
compensation. Based on the number of options currently outstanding, the adoption
of SFAS 123(R) is expected to result in compensation expense, net of tax, of
approximately $0.4 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31,
2006 and 2007, respectively. All future grants of share-based compensation will
result in the recognition of additional compensation expense.   

ITEM 7A.  
  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
RISK  

Interest Rate Risk    

The nature of our business exposes us to market risk arising
from changes in interest rates. We manage interest rate risk to protect margins
on existing transactions. Interest rate risk is the risk of earnings volatility
attributable to changes in interest rates. Additionally, we consider interest
rate swap contracts as an integral part of borrowing transactions. Generally we
seek to reduce our exposure by entering into amortizing interest rate swap
contracts, which coincide with the principal and maturity of the underlying debt
instruments hedged. We do not use leveraged swaps and do not use leverage in any
of our investment activities that would put principal capital at risk.

The following table sets forth principal cash flows and related
weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates for debt and capital
lease obligations at December 31, 2005:   

(1)           These
fixed rate facilities include variable instruments that have been converted to
fixed rate debt through the use of interest rate swap agreements.  

Based on outstanding debt balances at December 31, 2005 of
variable rate facilities, which have not been converted to fixed rate debt
through the use of interest rate swaps, a 10% change in variable interest rates
would have resulted in a $2.5 million change in pre-tax earnings.   

For further information regarding our floating and fixed rate debt, see
Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Credit Risk    

We maintain detailed credit records about our customers. Our
credit policy sets different maximum exposure limits for our customers. Credit
criteria may include, but are not limited to, customer trade route, country,
social and political climate, assessments of net worth, asset ownership, bank
and trade credit references, credit bureau reports, operational history and
financial strength.   

We seek to reduce credit risk by maintaining insurance coverage
against customer insolvency and related equipment losses. We maintain contingent
physical damage, recovery and loss of revenue insurance, which provides coverage
in the event of a customer s insolvency, bankruptcy or default giving rise
to our demand for return of all of our equipment. The policy covers the cost of
recovering our equipment from the customer, including repositioning cost, damage
to the equipment and the value of equipment which could not be located or was
uneconomical to recover. It also covers a portion of the equipment leasing
revenue that we might lose as a result of the customer s default
( i.e. , up to 180 days of lease payments following an occurrence under the
policy). Our current policy, which commenced April 30, 2005, includes coverage
of $13.0 million with a $2.0 million deductible, per occurrence. This coverage
automatically renews for at least two additional one-year terms on each
anniversary of the commencement date. All renewals are subject to maintaining a
claim experience that does not exceed stated percentages of the policy premiums.
There can be no assurance that this or similar coverage will be available in the
future or that such insurance will cover the entirety of any loss.   

Beginning January 31, 2006, we also maintain credit insurance
which provides complementary coverage upon the occurrence of a customer s
insolvency, bankruptcy or default giving rise to our demand for return of all
our equipment. The policy covers a portion of the equipment leasing revenues we
might lose as a result of the customer s default (i.e., up to 90 days of
lease payments that accrue prior to an occurrence under the policy). Our current
policy includes coverage of $10.0 million with a $0.2 million deductible, per
year, in the aggregate. The policy has a one-year term. There can be no
assurance that this or similar coverage will be available in the future or that
such insurance will cover the entirety of any loss.   

At December 31, 2005, approximately 44% of accounts receivable and 73% of
the net investment in direct financing leases were from customers outside of the
United States.   

In 2005, our top 25 customers represented approximately 76% of
consolidated billings, with no single customer accounting for more than 8.3%.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts    

The allowance for doubtful accounts includes our estimate of
allowances necessary for receivables on both operating and direct financing
lease receivables. The allowance for doubtful accounts is developed based on two
key components (1) specific reserves for receivables which are impaired for
which management believes full collection is doubtful and (2) reserves for
estimated losses inherent in the receivables based upon historical trends. We
believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate to provide for credit
losses inherent in our accounts receivable. The allowance for doubtful accounts
is intended to provide for losses inherent in the accounts receivable, and
requires the application of estimates and judgments as to the outcome of
collection efforts and the realization of collateral, among other things. In
addition, changes in economic conditions or other events may necessitate
additions or deductions to the allowance for doubtful accounts. Direct financing
leases are evaluated on a case by case basis. When evaluating our operating and
direct financing lease receivables for impairment, we consider, among other
things, the level of past-due amounts of the respective receivable, the
borrower s financial condition, credit quality indicators of the borrower,
the value of underlying collateral and third party credit enhancements such as
guarantees and insurance policies. Once a direct financing lease is determined
to be non-performing, our procedures provide for the following events to take
place in order to evaluate collectibility:   

The past due amounts are reclassified to accounts receivable, 

The equipment value supporting such direct financing lease is
reclassified to leasing equipment, and 

Collectibility is evaluated, taking into consideration equipment book value and
the total outstanding receivable, as well as the likelihood of collection
through the recovery of equipment. 

The adequacy of our allowance for doubtful accounts is provided
based upon a quarterly review of the collectibility of our receivables. This
review is based on the risk profile of the receivables, credit quality
indicators such as the level of past-due amounts and economic conditions, as
well as the value of underlying collateral in the case of direct financing lease
receivables. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, included in accounts
receivable are non-performing receivables of $11.5 million and $12.5 million,
respectively. Our average non-performing receivables are $11.5 million and $12.7
million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, included in the allowance for doubtful accounts are
reserves for the non-performing receivables of $11.5 million and $11.8 million,
respectively. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004 our non-performing receivables,
net of applicable reserves, were 0.05% and 1.01%, respectively, of accounts
receivable, net.   

ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements   

   INTERPOOL, INC.   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  Page 
 No.     
 
87 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 92 

Report of
Independent Registered 
Public Accounting Firm    

The Board of Directors 
Interpool, Inc.:   

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Interpool, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the
related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders  equity
and cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31,
2005. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.   

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Interpool, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three year period ended December 31, 2005 in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles.   

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of
Interpool, Inc. and subsidiaries  internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO"), and our report dated
March 31, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management s
assessment of, and an adverse opinion on the effective operation of, internal
control over financial reporting.   

(signed) KPMG LLP   

Short Hills, N.J. 
March 31, 2006  

INTERPOOL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004  
 (dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts)   

The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.  

INTERPOOL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003  
 (dollars and shares in thousands)   

The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.  

   INTERPOOL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003  
 (dollars and shares in thousands)   

(The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.)  

INTERPOOL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003  
 (dollars in thousands)   

The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.  

INTERPOOL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESNOTES 
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

(1)  
  Nature of operations and significant accounting policies:  

Nature of operations and significant accounting policies    

The nature of operations and the significant accounting policies
used by Interpool, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company  or
 Interpool ) in the preparation of the accompanying consolidated
financial statements are summarized below. The Company s accounting records
are maintained in United States dollars and the consolidated financial
statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles ( U.S. GAAP ).   

Nature of operations     

The Company and its subsidiaries conduct business principally in
a single industry segment, the leasing of intermodal dry freight standard
containers, chassis and other transportation related equipment. Within this
single industry segment, the majority of the Company s operations come from
two reportable segments: container leasing and domestic intermodal equipment
leasing. The container leasing segment specializes primarily in the leasing of
intermodal dry freight standard containers, while the domestic intermodal
equipment segment specializes primarily in the leasing of intermodal container
chassis. The Company leases its containers principally to international
container shipping lines located throughout the world. The customers for the
Company s chassis are a large number of domestic companies, many of which
are domestic subsidiaries or branches of international shipping lines, as well
as major U.S. railroads. Equipment is purchased directly or acquired through
conditional sales contracts and lease agreements, many of which qualify as
capital leases.   

The Company s container leasing operations are primarily
conducted through a wholly-owned subsidiary incorporated in Barbados, as well as
through Container Applications, Inc. ( CAI ), the Company s
consolidated subsidiary, of which the Company owns a 50% common equity interest
and currently appoints a majority of the members of the board of directors.
Until November 30, 2005, the Company s Barbados subsidiary Interpool
Limited conducted the Company s container leasing operations, other than
those of CAI. In connection with its repatriation plan, on December 14, 2005,
effective as of November 30, 2005, Interpool Limited transferred substantially
all its operating assets and related liabilities to Interpool Containers Limited
( ICL ), a newly formed Barbados company which is a subsidiary of the
Company. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result, since
November 30, 2005, ICL has conducted the container leasing operations of the
Company formerly conducted by Interpool Limited, with Interpool Limited holding
preferred stock and promissory notes issued by ICL. Profits of the
Company s Barbados subsidiaries from international container leasing
operations are exempt from federal taxation in the United States to the extent
such profits are retained outside the United States. These profits are subject
to Barbados tax at rates that are substantially lower than the applicable rates
in the United States.   

Within the historical financial statements, the Company also
previously had limited operations in a third reportable segment that specialized
in leasing microcomputers and related equipment. The computer leasing segment
consisted of two majority owned subsidiaries, Microtech Leasing Corporation
( Microtech ) and Personal Computer Rental Corporation
( PCR ). During the third quarter of 2001, the Company adopted a plan
to exit this segment. The Company liquidated the assets of Microtech as of March
31, 2004. PCR ceased active operations and began to liquidate in the first
quarter of 2003. At March 31, 2004, all of the assets of PCR were liquidated.

Basis of consolidation     

The Company s consolidated financial statements are
prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of the Company and subsidiaries more than 50% owned or
otherwise controlled by the Company. All significant intercompany transactions
have been eliminated in consolidation. Minority interest in equity of
subsidiaries represents the minority stockholders  proportionate share of
the equity in the income/(losses) of the subsidiaries.   

In connection with certain investments in which the Company does
not own a majority interest or otherwise control, but where it has the ability
to exercise significant influence over the investee, such investments were
accounted for using the equity method of accounting. In September 2005, a
non-transportation company in which the Company had held a minority equity
position since 1997 was sold. As of September 30, 2005, the Company no longer
holds any investments which are accounted for using the equity method of
accounting. The Company s investment in its equity method investees for the
periods prior to September 30, 2005 was included in other assets on the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

Goodwill     

On June 29, 2001, the FASB approved its proposed SFAS No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  ( SFAS 142 ). SFAS 142
requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives no
longer be amortized, but instead be tested for impairment at least annually in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS 142. SFAS 142 also requires that
intangible assets with definite useful lives be amortized over their respective
estimated useful lives to their estimated residual value, and reviewed for
impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  ( SFAS 144 ).   

Commencing January 1, 2002, as a result of adopting SFAS
142, goodwill is no longer amortized but is reviewed for impairment. During
December 2005 and 2004, the Company conducted its annual goodwill impairment
tests. The tests disclosed that at both December 31, 2005 and 2004, the implied
fair value of the goodwill was in excess of its carrying value, therefore
impairment charges were not required. Total goodwill recorded at
December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $5,495 for both years and is included in
other assets on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet. This goodwill is
included in total assets within the Domestic Intermodal Leasing segment.

Translation of foreign
currencies     

The Company has determined that the U.S. dollar is its
functional currency for each of its overseas operations; therefore, all gains
and losses resulting from translating foreign currency transactions into the
functional currency are included in income.   

Revenues     

Equipment leasing revenues include revenue from operating leases
and income on direct financing leases, which is recognized over the term of the
lease using the effective interest method. Rental income on operating leases is
recognized on the accrual basis based on the contractual agreement with the
lease customer.   

Other revenue consists primarily of fees charged to the lessee
for handling, delivery and repairs which is recognized as earned based on the
terms of the contractual agreements with the lease customer.   

Maintenance and repair expense     

Maintenance and repair expenses are accounted for under the direct expense
method; thus these amounts are charged to operating expenses when incurred.

Cash and cash equivalents     

The Company considers investments with original maturities of
three months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company s policy is to
invest cash in excess of short-term operating and debt service requirements in
cash equivalents. These instruments are stated at cost, which approximates
market value because of the short-term nature of the instruments.   

Allowance for doubtful
accounts     

The Company s allowance for doubtful accounts is provided
based upon a quarterly review of the collectibility of its receivables. This
review is based on the risk profile of the receivables, credit quality
indicators such as the level of past-due amounts and economic conditions, as
well as the value of underlying collateral. An account is considered past due
when a payment has not been received in accordance with the contractual terms.
Accounts are generally charged off after an analysis is completed which
indicates that collection of the full principal balance is in doubt. Changes in
economic conditions or other events may necessitate additions or deductions to
the allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts is
intended to provide for losses inherent in the accounts receivable, and requires
the application of estimates and judgments as to the outcome of collection
efforts and the realization of collateral, among other things. The Company
believes its allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate to provide for credit
losses inherent in its accounts receivable. See Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the allowance for doubtful
accounts.   

Non-performing receivables     

Non performing receivables reflect both operating lease
receivables and direct financing lease receivables which the Company considers
impaired. When evaluating its operating and direct financing lease receivables
for impairment, the Company considers, among other things, the level of past-due
amounts of the respective receivable, the borrower s financial condition,
credit quality indicators of the borrower, and the value of underlying
collateral.   

Direct financing leases     

Direct financing leases are recorded at the aggregate future
minimum lease payments, including any purchase options granted to the customer,
less unearned income. Income from these leases is recognized over the term of
the lease using the effective interest method.   

Stock-based compensation     

Stock option plans are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No.
148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 148 ). This Statement
amends SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS
123 ), which allows for the retention of principles within Accounting Principles
Board Opinion 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees . As permitted by the
Statement, the Company has chosen to continue to account for stock-based compensation
using the intrinsic value method. To date, all options were granted with an exercise price
equal to the market price of the Company s stock at grant date. Options issued with
an exercise price below the fair value of the Company s common stock on the date of
grant will be accounted for as compensatory options. For compensatory options, the
difference between the exercise price and the fair value of the Company s common
stock will be charged to expense over the shorter of the vesting or service period.
Options issued at fair value are non-compensatory.   

The following table illustrates the effect on net income and
earnings per share had the fair value method of accounting been applied to the
Company s stock compensation plans.   

_________________ 
 (1)           
In connection with a separation agreement with Mr. Raoul Witteveen, the
Company s former President, the terms of fully vested options were
modified. This modification resulted in compensation expense of $7,091 ($4,254
net of tax included above). The fair value of these options as modified was
$8,214 ($4,928 net of tax included above). For further discussion see the
Company s 2004 Form 10-K/A.  

The weighted average fair value of options granted or modified during
2005, 2004 and 2003 was $6.61, $9.76 and $7.21 per option, respectively. The fair value
was estimated using the Black-Scholes Option pricing model based on the following
assumptions:   

Insurance receivables     

The Company has maintained insurance coverage in the event of a
lessee s insolvency, bankruptcy or default. Amounts recorded as an
insurance claim receivable would be included in other receivables, net in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets and are limited to those amounts that are probable
of collection and include only incurred costs and losses related to the
insurable event. There are no insurance receivables at December 31, 2005 and
2004. Amounts recorded as insurance claim receivable would be recorded in other
income, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Upon collection of the
receivable from the insurance carriers, any amounts in excess of or less than
the receivable recorded would be recorded as gain or loss on insurance
settlement in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   

Property and equipment     

The Company records property and equipment at cost, except for
property and equipment that have been impaired, for which the Company reduces
the carrying amount to the estimated fair value at the impairment date. Property
and equipment is included in other assets on the accompanying Consolidated
Balance Sheet. The Company capitalizes significant improvements; the Company
charges repairs and maintenance costs that do not extend the lives of the assets
to expense as incurred. The Company removes the cost and accumulated
depreciation of assets sold or otherwise disposed of from the accounts and
recognizes any resulting gain or loss upon the disposition of the assets.

The Company depreciates the cost of property and equipment over their
estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis as follows: buildings   40
years; furniture and fixtures   3 to 7 years; computers and office
equipment   3 to 5 years; and other property and equipment   3 to 10
years.   

Leasing equipment     

The Company records equipment at cost, except for equipment that
it considers impaired. When equipment is considered impaired, the Company
reduces the carrying amount to the equipment s estimated fair value at the
impairment date. The Company capitalizes significant improvements if such
improvements extend the life of the equipment. The Company charges repair and
maintenance costs that do not extend the lives of the assets to expense as
incurred. Upon disposition of equipment, the Company removes the cost and
accumulated depreciation of assets disposed of from the accounts and recognizes
any resulting gain or loss.   

Depreciation and amortization of leasing equipment (both
equipment on-lease to customers and available for hire) is provided under the
straight-line method based upon the following estimated useful lives:

Gains or losses resulting from the disposition of leasing
equipment are recorded in the year of disposition. These amounts are recorded in
gains on sale of leasing equipment on the Consolidated Statements of Income.

At December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company performed a
review of its container and chassis fleets in order to determine whether these
assets are impaired in accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets  ( SFAS 144 ). The
container fleet is reported within the container leasing segment, while the
chassis are reported within the domestic intermodal equipment segment. This
review indicated that there was no impairment to the fleet with the exception of
specific units that were idle, some of which were badly damaged, and other
specific units with design flaws. The Company performed a review of this
equipment to determine whether the units would be repaired and returned to
service or sold based upon the best economic alternative for the Company. This
determination was based on the condition of the unit, its location and the
resale market within that location. All units identified for sale were then
written down, if required, to estimated net realizable value in accordance with
SFAS No. 121,  Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of . The measurement of an impairment loss
requires a determination of fair value, which is based on the best information
available. The Company uses market prices of similar equipment when available
and the estimated residual value of a used chassis within the remanufacturing
process to determine fair value. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, the impairment loss on chassis and containers (excluding CAI) was $3,459,
$4,335 and $8,059, respectively. Impairment amounts are recorded in impairment
of leasing equipment on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.

During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
CAI performed a review of its container fleet in order to determine whether
these assets were impaired in accordance with SFAS 144. The container fleet is
reported in the container leasing segment. The loss was calculated by comparing
the equipment s net book value to the estimated realizable value of the
equipment. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the impairment
loss recorded by CAI was $573, $275, and $990, respectively. This reduced income
before taxes in those periods by $287, $138 and $495, respectively after taking
into account the Company s 50% minority interest adjustment.   

Derivative financial instruments     

The Company reports all derivative financial instruments on its
balance sheet at fair value and establishes criteria for designation and
effectiveness of transactions entered into for hedging purposes. The fair value
is calculated externally using market data taking into account current market
rates.   

The Company employs derivative financial instruments (limited to
interest rate swap agreements) from time to time to effectively convert certain
floating rate debt instruments into fixed rate instruments and thereby manage
its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. The Company does not enter into
other derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The
Company faces credit risk if the counterparties to these transactions are unable
to perform their obligations. However, the Company seeks to minimize this risk
by entering into transactions with counterparties that are major financial
institutions with high credit ratings.   

The Company records gains and losses on derivative financial instruments
qualifying as cash flow hedges in other comprehensive income/(loss), to the extent that
hedges are effective and until the underlying transactions are recognized in the
Consolidated Statements of Income, at which time the Company recognizes the gains and
losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. For those derivative financial
instruments which do not qualify as cash flow hedges, any changes in fair value are
recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   

The Company may at its discretion terminate or redesignate any such
interest rate swap agreements prior to maturity. At that time, any gains or
losses previously reported in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) on
termination would continue to amortize into interest expense or interest income
to correspond to the recognition of interest expense or interest income on the
hedged debt. If such debt instrument was also terminated, the gain or loss
associated with the terminated derivative included in accumulated other
comprehensive income/(loss) at the time of termination of the debt would be
recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income at that time.   

Comprehensive income     

Comprehensive income consists of net income for the current
period and gains that have been previously excluded from the income statement
and were only reported as a component of equity.   

The tax effect of other comprehensive income is as follows:   

(1) 
 Amounts are net of losses on sales of marketable securities of $50
(before income tax effect of $2) recognized in the income statement. 

(2) 
 Amounts are net of a realized loss of $44 (before income tax
effect of $18) considered permanent and recognized in the income
statement. 

The components of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss),
net of taxes, are as follows:   

Concentration of credit risk     

At December 31, 2005, approximately 44% of accounts receivable
and 73% of net investment in direct financing leases were from customers outside
of the United States. This compares to approximately 47% of accounts receivable
and 70% of net investment in direct financing leases at December 31, 2004.

In 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company s top 25 customers
represented approximately 76%, 75% and 74%, respectively, of its consolidated
billings, with no single customer accounting for more than 8.3% in any year.

Net income per share     

Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by
the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period (which is
net of treasury shares). Diluted income per share reflects the potential
dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock
were exercised or converted into common stock. The dilutive effect of stock
options and warrants and the unvested portion of restricted stock grants is
computed using the treasury stock method, which assumes the repurchase of common
shares at the average market price for the period. Stock options and warrants
that do not have a dilutive effect (because the exercise price is above the
market price) are not included in the diluted income per share. For the year
ended December 31, 2005 (using the treasury stock method) warrants were dilutive
while options to purchase 6,133 shares were not dilutive and were not included
in diluted earnings per share. For the year ended December 31, 2004 warrants to
purchase 76,052 shares and options to purchase 905 shares were not dilutive and
were not included in diluted earnings per share. For the year ended
December 31, 2003, all stock options to acquire common shares were
dilutive. There were no warrants outstanding during the year ended December 31,
2003. Unvested restricted stock grants were dilutive for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the convertible redeemable
subordinated debentures were dilutive. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2003, the convertible redeemable subordinated debentures issued by the Company
(convertible into 1,487,285 and 1,460,461 shares, respectively) were not
dilutive and were not included in diluted earnings per share. For further
discussion of the debt characteristics of the convertible redeemable
subordinated debentures, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator of basic EPS
with that of diluted EPS is presented below:   

Software capitalization     

The Company accounts for the cost of internally developed
software in accordance with the provisions of SOP 98-1,  Accounting for the
Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use  ( SOP
98-1 ). SOP 98-1 outlines the various stages of internally generated
system software and describes the portion of the costs which should be
capitalized. The Company has capitalized software costs amounting to $2,897 for
the year ended December 31, 2005 which has been included in other assets on the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2005. Amortization of
these costs is being recorded on a straight line basis over a five year period
and begins as each defined phase of the system development is completed. The
amortization of these costs amounted to $60 and has been included in
administrative expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year
ended December 31, 2005.   

Use of estimates     

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.   

Reclassifications     

Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2004 and 2003
amounts in order to conform to the 2005 presentation.   

(2)  
  Leasing activities:  

As lessor     

The Company has entered into various leases of equipment that
qualify as direct financing leases. At the inception of a direct financing
lease, the Company records a net investment based on the total investment
(representing the total future minimum lease payments plus unguaranteed residual
value), net of unearned lease income. The unguaranteed residual value is
generally equal to the purchase option of the lessee, and is included in total
lease receivables (approximately $65,590 and $66,298 at December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively). Unearned income represents the excess of total future
minimum lease payments plus residual value over equipment cost. Receivables
under these direct financing leases, net of unearned income, are collectible
through 2017 as follows:   

December 31, 2005
                                                Total Lease       Unearned            Net Lease
                                                  Receivable       Lease Income           Receivable  
                 2006                           $120,119           $33,353            $86,766
                 2007                            114,741            24,074             90,667
                 2008                             77,209            15,770             61,439
                 2009                             50,526            10,597             39,929
                 2010                             38,851             7,086             31,765
                 Thereafter                       62,271             9,963             52,308
                                                  ------             -----             ------
                                                $463,717          $100,843           $362,874
                                                 ========          ========           ========

As of December 31, 2004, the Company had total lease receivable,
unearned lease income and net lease receivables of $472,543, $109,098 and
$363,445 respectively.   

As of December 31, 2005, the Company also had noncancelable
operating leases, under which it will receive future minimum rental payments as
follows:   

2006                           $195,596
                 2007                            162,385
                 2008                            108,353
                 2009                             67,997
                 2010                             42,272
                 Thereafter                       34,589
                                                  ------
                                                $611,192
                                                ========

The Company capitalizes lease commissions and amortizes this
cost over the average life of the related lease contract. At December 31, 2005
and 2004, $1,469 and $2,473 of these commissions were included in other assets
on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.   

Allowance for doubtful accounts     

The following summarizes the activity in the allowance for doubtful
accounts:   

The allowance for doubtful accounts includes the Company s
estimate of allowances necessary for receivables on both operating and direct
financing lease receivables. The allowance for doubtful accounts is developed
based on two key components (1) specific reserves for receivables which are
impaired for which management believes full collection is doubtful and (2)
reserves for estimated losses inherent in the receivables based upon historical
trends. The Company believes its allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate to
provide for credit losses inherent on its accounts receivable. The allowance for
doubtful accounts is intended to provide for losses inherent in the accounts
receivable, and requires the application of estimates and judgments as to the
outcome of collection efforts and the realization of collateral, among other
things. In addition, changes in economic conditions or other events may
necessitate additions or deductions to the allowance for doubtful accounts.
Direct financing leases are evaluated on a case by case basis. When evaluating
its operating and direct financing lease receivables for impairment, the Company
considers, among other things, the level of past-due amounts of the respective
receivable, the borrower s financial condition, credit quality indicators
of the borrower, the value of underlying collateral and third party credit
enhancements such as guarantees and insurance policies. Once a direct financing
lease is determined to be non-performing, Company procedures provide for the
following events to take place in order to evaluate collectibility:   

The  past
due amounts are reclassified to accounts receivable, 

The equipment value supporting such direct financing lease is
reclassified to leasing equipment, and 

Collectibility is evaluated, taking into consideration equipment book value, and
the total outstanding receivable, as well as the likelihood of collection
through the recovery of equipment. 

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, included in accounts
receivable are non-performing receivables of $11,492 and $12,498, respectively.
The Company s average non-performing receivables are $11,523 and $12,704
for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of December 31,
2005 and 2004, included in the allowance for doubtful accounts are reserves for
the non-performing receivables of $11,453 and $11,764, respectively. As of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, our non-performing receivables, net of applicable
reserves, were 0.05% and 1.01%, respectively, of accounts receivable, net.

All outstanding amounts due for non-performing direct financing
lease accounts are reclassified to accounts receivable, therefore an allowance
for doubtful accounts for the net investment in direct financing leases is not
required.   

The Company seeks to reduce credit risk by maintaining insurance
coverage against customer insolvency and related equipment losses. The Company
maintains contingent physical damage, recovery and loss of revenue insurance,
which provides coverage in the event of a customer s insolvency, bankruptcy
or default giving rise to its demand for return of all of its equipment. The
policy covers the cost of recovering the Company s equipment from the
customer, including repositioning cost, damage to the equipment and the value of
equipment that could not be located or was uneconomical to recover. It also
covers a portion of the equipment leasing revenue that the Company might lose as
a result of the customer s default (i.e., up to 180 days of lease payments
following an occurrence under the policy). The Company s current policy,
which commenced on April 30, 2005, includes coverage of $13,000 with a $2,000
deductible, per occurrence. This coverage automatically renews for at least two
additional one year terms on each anniversary of the commencement date. All
renewals are subject to maintaining a claim experience that does not exceed
stated percentages of the policy premiums. There can be no assurance that this
or similar coverage will be available in the future or that such insurance
coverage will cover the entirety of any loss.   

(3)  
  Debt and capital lease obligations:  

The following table summarizes the Company s debt and
capital lease obligations as of December 31, 2005 and 2004:   

At December 31, 2005, the Company had available $332,249 under
various facilities which includes approximately $110,737 available under
CAI s revolving credit facility.   

As of December 31, 2005, the annual maturities of capital leases
and related interest were as follows:   

As of December 31, 2005 the scheduled principal maturities of
debt were as follows:   

The Company s debt consists of notes, loans and capital lease
obligations with installments payable in varying amounts through 2027, with a
weighted average interest rate of 6.8% and 6.2% in 2005 and 2004, respectively.
The principal amount of debt and capital lease obligations payable under fixed
rate contracts was $1,075,545. Remaining debt and capital lease obligations of
$888,114 were payable under floating rate arrangements, of which $492,581 was
effectively converted to fixed rate debt through the use of interest rate swap
agreements. At December 31, 2005, most of the debt and capital lease obligations
of the Company are secured by a substantial portion of the Company s
leasing equipment, direct financing leases and accounts receivable, except for
$442,875 of debt which is unsecured. For further information on the accounting
treatment for interest rate swap contracts see Note 4 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.   

The following is a description of the significant components of the
Company s indebtedness as of December 31, 2005:   

December 2005 Financings:   On December 21, 2005, the
Company established two secured credit facilities for its international container leasing
operations. The facilities were established with two financial institutions who are the
agents for the lenders under these two credit facilities, and they replaced two previous
secured credit facilities established in 2004 by these financial institutions.   

Of the $713,904 the Company drew down under these facilities on December
21, 2005, the Company used $429,300 to reduce previously existing indebtedness, including
$403,786 outstanding under its previous facilities with the same lenders for the new
facilities. The remaining portion of the initial borrowings under the facilities, totaling
$284,604, together with other existing funds, was used to repay inter-company indebtedness
owed to the Company s Barbados subsidiary, Interpool Limited. Interpool Limited, in
turn, used these proceeds, together with other funds, to pay a special cash dividend to
Interpool Inc., its U.S. parent company, on December 27, 2005.   

The new term loan and revolving credit facility (the  2005 Fortis
Facility ) was established pursuant to a Credit Agreement dated as of December 21,
2005 among Interpool Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, Fortis Bank (the agent lender) and
certain other lenders. The facility allows for borrowings up to $577,198, consisting of A
notes ($500,000 maximum advance, of which $385,988 has been funded) and B notes in the
amount of $77,198. Borrowings under the facility are secured by shipping containers owned
by a consolidated, indirect special purpose finance subsidiary of Interpool, Inc. that are
leased to various customers, primarily under long-term operating leases, and by the
related lease receivables. The 2005 Fortis Facility allows for advances from time to time
under the A notes up to the amount of available collateral under the facility, subject to
a maximum principal amount that may be outstanding under the A notes of $500,000. The
facility has a revolving period ending October 31, 2007 at which time the Company then has
the option to pay off the remaining balance over a 66 month period.   

The interest rate for the A notes under the facility is LIBOR plus 200
basis points, with reductions of up to 50 basis points possible as the Company s
credit rating or funded debt to tangible net worth ratio (as defined in the Credit
Agreement) improves. Currently, based upon the funded debt to tangible net worth ratio as
of September 30, 2005, the interest rate for the A notes is LIBOR plus 175 basis points.
The interest rate for the B notes is LIBOR plus 350 basis points for the first twelve
months the loan is outstanding and LIBOR plus 500 basis points thereafter. The 2005 Fortis
Facility requires that by April 20, 2006 the Company enter into interest rate swap
contracts in order to effectively convert at least seventy five percent of the debt
associated with operating lease equipment and ninety percent of the debt associated with
direct financing leases from floating rate debt to fixed rate debt. As of December 31,
2005, the Company has not entered into any of these interest rate swap contracts. The 2005
Fortis Facility also includes covenants related to a minimum level of tangible net worth,
a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and a maximum funded debt to tangible net worth
ratio, as well as other customary restrictive covenants. In addition, the 2005 Fortis
Facility contains restrictions on payments of dividends and distributions by certain
subsidiaries of Interpool Inc. after December 31, 2005 until the B notes are paid in full,
and prohibits the parent company Interpool Inc. from making payments to its stockholders
with the proceeds of the B notes. Interpool Containers Limited ( ICL ), a newly
formed Barbados subsidiary of Interpool, Inc., acts as servicer of the collateral securing
the advances under the 2005 Fortis Facility for the benefit of the lenders.   

The other new credit facility (the  2005 DVB Facility ) was
established pursuant to a Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2005 among Interpool
Inc., ICL, DVB (the agent lender) and certain other lenders. The facility consists of A
notes ($219,701 funded) and B notes ($31,017 funded), and is secured by shipping
containers owned by its subsidiary, ICL, which are leased to customers under long-term
finance lease arrangements, and by the related lease receivables and other receivables of
ICL. A total of $250,718 was borrowed under the 2005 DVB Facility on December 21, 2005 and
remained outstanding at December 31, 2005.   

The interest rate for the A notes under the 2005 DVB Facility is fixed at
6.365%. The A notes amortize over a five year term. The interest rate for the B notes is
LIBOR plus 350 basis points for the first twelve months the loan is outstanding and LIBOR
plus 500 basis points thereafter. The B notes amortize to a balloon payment over twelve
months, but may be extended for an additional two years at the Company s option. The
2005 DVB Facility also includes covenants related to a minimum level of tangible net
worth, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and a maximum funded debt to tangible net
worth ratio, as well as other customary restrictive covenants. In addition, the 2005 DVB
Facility contains restrictions on the payments of dividends and distributions by certain
subsidiaries of Interpool, Inc. after December 31, 2005 until the B notes under the 2005
DVB Facility are paid in full, and prohibits the parent company Interpool, Inc. from
making payments to its stockholders with the proceeds of the advances under this facility.   

The Company used $403,786 of the December 21, 2005 advances under the 2005
Fortis Facility and the 2005 DVB Facility to repay debt outstanding under secured
equipment financing facilities it had established in November 2004 with the agent and
several other lenders (the  2004 Fortis Facility ) and a separate facility it
had established earlier in 2004 with DVB (the  2004 DVB Facility ) and not drawn
upon until 2005, and the Company terminated these 2004 facilities. For descriptions of the
November 2004 Fortis Facility and the 2004 DVB Facility, see below.   

Chassis Securitization Facility:   The Company s
current chassis securitization facility was established in September 2002. This facility
was initially limited to $540,968 and was increased in May 2003 to provide for a $200,000
revolving warehouse facility within the chassis securitization facility. In July 2003 and
October 2003, the Company agreed, among other things, to suspend its ability to incur
additional funding under this warehouse facility until such time as the loan and guarantee
parties have each agreed in their sole discretion to reinstate their funding commitments.
This warehouse facility remained suspended throughout 2004. In early 2005, the Company
elected not to renew the warehouse facility. As a result of this decision, the warehouse
facility was not extended beyond its scheduled expiration date of March 31, 2005.
Accordingly, under the terms of the securitization facility, beginning April 1, 2005, all
cash flow from the securitization that would normally have been received by the Company
after the requirements of the securitization financing are satisfied is being used to pay
down the warehouse facility until it is paid in full. In addition, based on the terms of
the securitization financing, the interest rate on the warehouse facility was increased by
100 basis points as of March 31, 2005. At December 31, 2005, $8,416 remained outstanding
under the warehouse facility. This balance will be paid during 2006. The total amount
outstanding under the Company s chassis securitization facility at December 31, 2005
was $420,982.   

Other 2005 Financings:    

In February 2005, the Company entered into a lease arrangement with a
Japanese lessor involving $29,922 of equipment previously financed with a financial
institution during December 2003 and May 2004. This transaction closed in two
approximately equal tranches, the first of which occurred on February 28, 2005, and the
second of which occurred on March 31, 2005. The lease ends in December 2008, and the
Company has a fixed purchase option at that time that it expects to exercise. The
aggregate fixed rate of interest on the lease is 7.44%. The Company received additional
cash proceeds totaling $4,210 at the February closing and $4,271 the March closing. A
total of $27,404 was outstanding under these leases at December 31, 2005.   

During September 2005, the Company completed a secured revolving credit
facility for $122,500 with an agent bank and other lenders for the financing of chassis
equipment. The term of this facility is five years. The interest rate is set at LIBOR plus
1.375% until January 1, 2006, after which the rate is determined by a pricing grid related
to a defined funded debt to tangible net worth ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement)
with interest rates ranging from LIBOR plus 1.00% to LIBOR plus 1.625%. The initial
$15,000 drawdown under this facility was used to refinance a $15,000 secured loan made by
the agent bank during July 2004 which had borne interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 2.5% and
which had been used, in part, to satisfy a note payable from PCR to an unrelated financial
institution, which the Company had guaranteed for PCR. The Credit Agreement for this
facility also includes covenants related to a minimum level of tangible net worth, a
minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and a maximum funded debt to tangible net worth
ratio, as well as other customary restrictive covenants. As of December 31, 2005, $15,000
was outstanding under the facility established in September 2005.   

The Company also entered into a capital lease obligation transaction with
a U.S. bank for $29,817 with an interest rate of 4.93% during September 2005, which
continues until September 2015. The Company has a bargain fixed purchase option at that
time that it expects to exercise. A total of $29,469 was outstanding under this lease at
December 31, 2005.   

In December 2005, the Company completed a capital lease obligation
transaction for $7,096 with a U.S. bank with an interest rate of 5.16%, which continues
until December 2015. We also entered into a capital lease obligation transaction with
another bank for $30,000 with an interest rate of 5.39%, which continues until December
2013. Both these leases have a bargain fixed purchase option at lease end which the
Company expects to exercise. These amounts remained outstanding at December 31, 2005.   

In addition to the financings identified above, at December 31, 2005, the
Company had additional notes and loans outstanding with various financial institutions in
the aggregate amount of $22,049, at interest rates ranging from 5.75% to 7.90% and
additional capital lease obligations of $190,880.   

During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company paid off 14 container
financing facilities with outstanding balances of $553,085 at the time they were paid off,
including the 2004 Fortis Facility and 2004 DVB Facility as described above, to further
rationalize its debt structure and facilitate the establishment of the 2005 Fortis
Facility and 2005 DVB Facility.   

CAI Revolving Credit Facility:   On April 28, 2005, CAI
replaced its $110,000 secured revolving credit facility, which had an outstanding
principal balance of $58,500 as of March 31, 2005 (not including letters of credit in the
aggregate amount of $6,000 as of March 31, 2005) and was scheduled to expire on June 27,
2005, with a new senior secured revolving credit facility. The new credit facility has a
total commitment amount of up to $175,000 and was provided by a group of banks. The
interest rate under the revolving line of credit varies depending upon whether the loans
are characterized as base rate loans or Eurodollar rate loans. In addition, there is a
commitment fee on the unused amount of the total commitment which fee is payable quarterly
in arrears. The new credit facility provides that swing line loans (up to $10,000 in the
aggregate) and standby letters of credit (up to $15,000 in the aggregate) will be
available to CAI, which sublimits are part of, and not in addition to, the total
commitment of $175,000 under the new credit facility. The term of this revolving credit
facility is three years. In connection with the first loan advance under the new credit
facility, CAI repaid the outstanding principal balance of $58,000 on its then-existing
revolving credit facility (plus interest and additional fees) and repaid $15,143 of the
amounts owed to the Company under the outstanding subordinated note issued by CAI to the
Company in 1998. At December 31, 2005, $64,000 was outstanding under CAI s revolving
credit facility. This revolving credit facility contains various financial and other
covenants. At December 31, 2005, CAI was in compliance with these covenants.   

As mentioned above, on April 28, 2005, CAI repaid $15,143 of its $33,650
subordinated note held by the Company. This repayment returned this subordinated note to
the original payment schedule in effect before it was modified during 2002. The remaining
balance of the subordinated note, totaling $16,825 as of December 31, 2005, is required to
be repaid in equal quarterly installments of approximately $1,683 through April 30, 2008.
In addition, the financial covenants associated with this subordinated note were also
amended in April 2005.   

6% Notes and Warrant:   On September 14, 2004, the
Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement pursuant to which it sold $150,000
total principal amount of a new series of 6.0% Notes due 2014 (the  6% Notes )
in a private transaction with four investors. In connection with the sale of the 6% Notes,
the Company also issued to the investors two series of warrants that were originally
exercisable for a total of 8,333,333 shares of its common stock at an initial exercise
price of $18.00 per share (the  Warrants ). The exercise price of the Warrants
is subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments as set forth in the Warrants. As of
December 31, 2005, as a result of anti-dilution adjustments, the Warrants were exercisable
for a total of 8,833,333 shares at an exercise price of $17.01 per share. Based on
adjustments through January 3, 2006 (the record date for the most recent dividend declared
by the Company), the exercise price is currently $16.88 per share and the Warrants are
currently exercisable for a total of 8,916,666 shares.   

The 6% Notes mature on September 1, 2014, with interest payable
semi-annually at a rate of 6.0% per annum. The Company has the right to redeem the 6%
Notes at any time after September 1, 2009 with a declining premium. The maturity of the 6%
Notes can be accelerated upon the occurrence of an  Event of Default  as such
term is defined in the indenture governing the 6% Notes (the  Indenture ). The
Indenture also contains various restrictive covenants, including limitations on the
payment of dividends and other restricted payments, limitations on incurrence of
indebtedness, and limitations on asset sales, the violation of which would result in an
Event of Default.   

The first series of Warrants (the  Series A  Warrants) is
exercisable at any time and as of January 3, 2006 represents a total of 5,859,071 shares.
The second series of Warrants (the  Series B  Warrants) became exercisable
following stockholder approval of such exercise at a special meeting of its stockholders
on June 30, 2005 and as of January 3, 2006 represents a total of 3,057,595 shares. The
Company also entered into agreements with the investors to file registration statements
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, for the benefit of the investors, with
respect to the 6% Notes and the Warrants. Under the terms of the Warrants, the exercise
price will be paid by the investors to the Company solely in cash. The sale of the 6%
Notes and Warrants pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement was made in reliance on
the exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 (the
 Act ) pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Act.   

The Warrants expire on September 1, 2014, although the Company has the
right under certain conditions to require that they be exercised at any time if its common
stock trades at $30.00 per share or more for five consecutive trading days assuming the
shares being issued upon exercise are registered shares.   

The fair value of the Warrants at the date of the transaction was
estimated at $22,500 and was recorded in warrant liability on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet, with the offset recorded as a discount on the 6% Notes. This discount is being
amortized as interest expense using the effective interest method over the ten-year life
of the 6% Notes. The overall interest rate on the 6% Notes, considering the amortization
of the discount, is approximately 8.3%.   

EITF 00-19,  Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to,
and Potentially Settled in a Company s Own Stock  ( EITF 00-19 )
requires freestanding contracts that are settled in a company s own stock, including
common stock warrants, to be designated as an equity instrument, asset or liability. Under
the provisions of EITF 00-19, a contract designated as an asset or liability must be
carried at fair value until the contract meets the requirements for classification as
equity, until the contract is exercised or until the contract expires. As of December 31,
2004 and 2005, the Company has classified these Warrants as a liability, as noted above,
because the requirements of EITF 00-19 for classification of the Warrants as equity had
not been met. During the period the Warrants are classified as a liability, any changes in
fair value are and will continue to be reported as fair value adjustment for Warrants in
the Consolidated Statement of Income. Due primarily to the increase in the market value of
its common stock during the last quarter of 2004, the fair market value of the Warrants
increased from $22,500 at September 30, 2004 to $71,722 at December 31, 2004. As a result,
during the three months ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a non-cash expense
of $49,222 (for which no tax benefit is derived) which was reflected as fair value
adjustment for warrants on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. Due to
changes to items which affect the calculation of the fair value of the Warrants, primarily
the change in the market value of the Company common stock during the year of 2005, the
estimated fair market value of these Warrants decreased from $71,722 at December 31, 2004
to $53,231 at December 31, 2005. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2005, the
Company recorded non-cash income of $18,491 (for which no tax expense is derived) which
has been reflected as fair value adjustment for warrants on the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Income. See Note 18 for additional information regarding the registration
statement pertaining to the Warrants.   

On November 29, 2004, the Company sold $80,000 total principal amount of
additional 6% Notes (the  November 2004 6% Notes ) due 2014 to eight investors
under the same Indenture used for the $150,000 unsecured financing completed during
September 2004. The terms of the November 2004 6% Notes are identical to those of the 6%
Notes sold during September 2004 (as described previously in this document) with the
following exceptions: (1) there were no warrants associated with the November 2004 6%
Notes and (2) the original issue discount on the November 2004 6% Notes was approximately
14.7% versus 15.0% for the September 2004 6% Notes. The November 2004 6% Notes were sold
at a discount which provided net proceeds totaling $68,065. The net proceeds have been
used for general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to the purchase of
equipment, retirement of debt, acquisitions, and/or working capital.   

During 2005 and the first quarter of 2006, the Company, the holders of a
majority in principal amount of the 6% Notes and holders of a majority of the Warrants,
and the warrant agent for the holders of the Warrants, entered into a series of amendments
to certain agreements relating to the outstanding 6% Notes and Warrants. These amendments
extended the dates by which the Company was required to take certain actions with respect
to the 6% Notes and Warrants. Specifically, the amendments (i) extended from April 30,
2005 to June 30, 2005 the date by which the Company was required to seek stockholder
approval for the purpose of ratifying the issuance of the Series B Warrants, (ii) extended
from May 1, 2005 to August 1, 2005 the date by which the Company was required to file a
registration statement with the SEC with respect to the Warrants, (iii) extended from May
1, 2005 to August 1, 2005 the date by which the Company was required to file a
registration statement with the SEC with respect to the 6% Notes, and (iv) extended from
October 1, 2005 to April l, 2006 the date on which liquidated damages were to become
payable with respect to the 6% Notes and/or the Warrants if they had not been registered
with the SEC. The registration statements for both the 6% Notes and the Warrants were
submitted to the SEC on August 1, 2005. As a result of these amendments, the Company was
obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to have these registration statements
declared effective by the SEC by March 6, 2006. If either of these registration statements
had not been effective by April 1, 2006, the Company would have been required to pay
liquidated damages to the holders of these securities based upon a value of $150,000 for
the 6% Notes and $150,000 for the Warrants. For the first 90 days, the amount of
liquidated damages to be paid related to the Warrants and the 6% Notes would have been
calculated using a rate of 0.25% per annum for each day the registration statements were
not effective after April 1, 2006. This percentage would have been increased by 0.25% for
each 90 day period, until these conditions were met, up to a maximum of 1.00% per annum.
See Note 18 for additional information regarding the registration statement pertaining to
the Warrants.   

During October 2005, the Investor Rights Agreement relating to the
Warrants was amended to permanently eliminate the liquidated damages penalty for the
Warrants described above once the registration statement for the Warrants was declared
effective by the SEC. See Note 18 for additional information regarding the registration
statement pertaining to the Warrants.   

In addition, during 2005, the Company and the Indenture Trustee for the 6%
Notes (the  Indenture Trustee ), with the consent of the holders of a majority
in principal amount of the outstanding 6% Notes, entered into several Supplemental
Indentures amending the terms of the Indenture governing the 6% Notes. Pursuant to a
Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29, 2005, the Indenture was amended to provide
that all determinations of the Company s consolidated net income for purpose of the
restricted payments provisions in Section 4.7 of the Indenture, shall be based upon its
adjusted consolidated net income, after excluding the effect on net income of any gain or
loss attributable to any valuation adjustment relating to the Warrants. Pursuant to a
Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 16, 2005, Section 4.8 of the Indenture, which
generally prohibits the existence of contractual restrictions on the ability of its
subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions to the parent company, Interpool Inc., was
amended. The December 16, 2005 Supplemental Indenture added a new exception to Section
4.8(b) so as to permit its subsidiaries to agree to those restrictions that are contained
in the 2005 Fortis Facility and in the 2005 DVB Facility on the ability of Interpool
Limited and ICL to pay dividends and distributions to Interpool, Inc., as described above.
Finally, pursuant to a Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 19, 2005, Section 4.7
of the Indenture, which limits the amount of cash dividends, distributions and other
restricted payments that may be made by its parent company Interpool, Inc. to its
stockholders, was amended. The December 19, 2005 Supplemental Indenture modified clause
(9) of Section 4.7(b) to provide that, in addition to the other specified exceptions,
dividends and distributions may be paid in the aggregate amount of $13,000 (an increase
from the $7,000 permitted under the original Indenture) from and after the date of the
Indenture.   

At a Special Meeting of the Company s Stockholders held on June 30,
2005, holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of its common stock approved a
resolution ratifying the issuance by the Company of the Series B Warrants and the issuance
of common stock upon exercise of such Series B Warrants by the holders. This affirmative
vote satisfied one of the requirements of the Warrant Agreement relating to the Warrants.
As a result of this vote, the Series B Warrants are now exercisable to purchase shares of
common stock in accordance with their terms.   

As of December 31, 2005, a total of $198,658 ($230,000 principal less
$31,342 unamortized discount) of the 6% Notes issued during September and November 2004
was outstanding.   

7.35% and 7.20% Notes:   In July and August of 1997,
the Company issued $225,000 of ten year notes, comprised of $150,000 of 7.35% Notes due
2007 and $75,000 of 7.20% Notes due 2007. The net proceeds from these offerings were used
to repay secured indebtedness, to purchase equipment and for other investments. During the
third quarter of 2005, the Company retired $21,235 of the 7.35% Notes and $7,460 of the
7.20% Notes and recognized pre-tax costs related to this retirement of $812 which has been
reflected within loss on retirement of debt on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Income. As of December 31, 2005, $94,160 and $37,875 principal amount of the 7.35% and
7.20% Notes, respectively, remained outstanding.   

9.25% Convertible Redeemable Subordinated Debentures:   In
December 2002, the Company issued $32,118 of 9.25% Convertible Redeemable Subordinated
Debentures, and subsequently issued an additional $5,064 of such debentures in January and
February 2003, resulting in a total of $37,182 of debentures issued and outstanding at
December 31, 2005. The debentures bear interest at an annual rate of 9.25%. They have a
mandatory redemption feature upon the earlier of the occurrence of a change of control or
on December 27, 2022. They have an optional redemption feature after the third anniversary
at a price of 100% of outstanding principal plus accrued interest. They have a special
redemption feature between December 27, 2006 and December 27, 2007, during which period
the Company may redeem the debentures by issuing common stock at $25.50 per debenture plus
accrued interest if the average closing price of its common stock for five consecutive
trading days equals or exceeds $25.50 per share. Lastly, at any time, a holder of the
debentures may convert the debentures into the Company s common stock at a per share
conversion price of $25.00. As of December 31, 2005 $37,182 of the 9.25% Convertible
Redeemable Subordinated Debentures remained outstanding.   

9.875% Preferred Capital Securities:   On January 27,
1997, Interpool Capital Trust, a Delaware business trust and special purpose entity (the
 Trust ), issued to outside investors 75,000 shares of 9.875% Capital Securities
with an aggregate liquidation preference of $75,000 (the  Capital Securities )
for proceeds of $75,000. Interpool, Inc. owns all the common securities of the Trust. The
proceeds received by the Trust from the sale of the Capital Securities were used by the
Trust to acquire $75,000 of the Company s 9.875% Junior Subordinated Deferrable
Interest Debentures due February 15, 2027 (the  Debentures ). The sole asset of
the Trust is $77,320 aggregate principal amount of the Debentures. The Capital Securities
represent preferred beneficial interests in the Trust s assets. Distributions on the
Capital Securities are cumulative and payable at the annual rate of 9.875% of the
liquidation amount, semi-annually in arrears and commenced February 15, 1997. The Company
has the option to defer payment of distributions for an extension period of up to five
years if it is in compliance with the terms of the Capital Securities. Interest at 9.875%
will accrue on such deferred distributions throughout the extension period. The Capital
Securities will be subject to mandatory redemption upon repayment of the Debentures to the
Trust. The redemption price decreases from 104.9375% of the liquidation preference in 2007
to 100% in 2017 and thereafter. Under certain limited circumstances, the Company may, at
its option, prepay the Debentures and redeem the Capital Securities prior to 2007 at a
prepayment price specified in the governing instruments. The obligations of the Company
under the Debentures, under the Indenture pursuant to which the Debentures were issued,
under certain guarantees and under certain back-up obligations, in the aggregate
constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by the Company of the obligations of the
Trust under the Capital Securities. As of December 31, 2005, $75,000 of the 9.875%
Preferred Capital Securities remained outstanding.   

Description of Certain Indebtedness Repaid During 2005:    

2004 Fortis Facility  : As noted above, in December
2005 the Company repaid the entire $303,786 of borrowings outstanding under its 2004
Fortis Facility, using a portion of the initial advance under the 2005 Fortis Facility.
Advances under the 2004 Fortis Facility were secured by shipping containers and related
leases owned by a special purpose consolidated subsidiary and leased to various third
parties. The 2004 Fortis Facility allowed for advances from time to time up to the amount
of available collateral under the facility, subject to a maximum principal amount that
could be outstanding under the facility. The maximum amount of the 2004 Fortis Facility
was initially $252,000 and was increased by $248,000 during February 2005, thereby
bringing the total commitments under the 2004 Fortis Facility to $500,000. When this
facility was originally established in November 2004, the Company drew down $243,000, of
which $224,400 was used to refinance other indebtedness outstanding at the time (including
the entire $154,800 of outstanding borrowings under a secured revolving credit facility
which the Company terminated in November 2004, as well as a $69,600 loan from Fortis
entered into in March 2004). The remaining $18,600 of the initial advance under the 2004
Fortis Facility was used for transaction fees and working capital purposes. Borrowings
under the 2004 Fortis Facility bore interest at LIBOR plus 175 basis points. As required
by this facility, on March 31, 2005, the Company entered into three interest rate swap
contracts with original notional amounts totaling $204,858 in order to effectively convert
a significant portion of the debt under the 2004 Fortis Facility from floating rate debt
to fixed rate debt. These interest rate swap contracts have now been reassigned to the
2005 Fortis Facility. The 2004 Fortis Facility had a two-year term, after which the
outstanding balance would have been paid out in full over 66 months if it had not been
refinanced.   

2004 DVB Facility :  In December 2005, $100,000 of proceeds
from the initial borrowings under the 2005 DVB Facility were used to repay the outstanding
balance under a prior facility with DVB and certain other lenders, which was originally
established on December 29, 2004 with a commitment of $150,000. No amounts were borrowed
under this facility prior to July 1, 2005. Under the terms of this facility, the advance
rate was either 60% or 75% at the Company s option. The interest rate was to be
determined by a pricing grid and could range from LIBOR plus 140 to 180 basis points,
depending upon the Company s tangible debt to total net worth ratio (as defined in
the agreement) or its corporate credit rating, and the advance rate chosen. There was a
commitment fee of 45 basis points per annum on any unused portion of this commitment,
payable quarterly in arrears. As indicated above, this facility was terminated in December
2005.   

Financing Commitments Available:     As of December 31,
2005, total commitments of $221,512 were available for future use by the Company under two
existing lines of credit, of which $114,012 was available under the 2005 Fortis Facility
and $107,500 was available under the chassis facility the Company established in September
2005. In addition, $110,737 was available at December 31, 2005 under CAI s revolving
credit facility.   

Covenants:   At December 31, 2005, under the
Company s 2005 Fortis Facility and DVB Facility, the chassis revolving credit
facility established during September 2005, and most of its other debt instruments, the
Company is required to maintain covenants (as defined in each agreement) for tangible net
worth (the most stringent of which required the Company to maintain tangible net worth of
at least $300,000), a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.5 to 1 and a funded debt
to tangible net worth ratio of not more than 4.0 to 1. For the most restrictive covenants,
tangible net worth includes stockholders  equity plus any  warrant
liability , its 9.875% preferred capital securities and its 9.25% convertible
redeemable subordinated debentures and any future subordinated debt, and is reduced by
goodwill and adjusted to eliminate the impact of adjustments associated with derivative
instruments; funded debt excludes the portion of debt and capital lease obligations due
within one year, its 9.875% preferred capital securities and its 9.25% convertible
redeemable subordinated debentures, and any future subordinated debt; fixed charges
include interest expense, excluding that related to its 9.875% preferred capital
securities and its 9.25% convertible redeemable subordinated debentures and any future
subordinated debt, and lease rentals; earnings available for fixed charges include income
before depreciation and income taxes, excluding the impact of any non-cash fair value
adjustments for warrants, plus fixed charges, plus interest expense associated with its
9.875% preferred capital securities and its 9.25% convertible redeemable subordinated
debentures and any future subordinated debt. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was in
compliance with all covenants.   

A servicing agreement to which the Company is a party requires that the
Company maintain a tangible net worth (including its 9.875% preferred capital securities
due 2027) of at least $375,000 plus 50% of any positive net income reported from October
1, 2004 forward.   

Additionally, under a credit agreement, the Company is required to
maintain a security deposit in the aggregate amount of at least 80% of the outstanding
loan balances, including interest. This amounted to $3,600 at December 31, 2005, and is
included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. At December 31, 2005, under a
restriction in its 6.0% Note Indenture, approximately $9,862 of retained earnings were
available for dividends.   

(4)  
  Derivative instruments:  

The Company s assets are primarily fixed rate in nature while its
debt instruments are primarily floating rate. The Company employs derivative financial
instruments (limited to interest rate swap agreements) to effectively convert certain
floating rate debt instruments into fixed rate instruments and thereby manage its exposure
to fluctuations in interest rates.   

As of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, included in accounts
payable and accrued expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets is a
liability of $3,246 and $19,745, respectively, representing the market value of the
Company s interest rate swap contracts.   

The unrealized pre-tax income on cash flow hedges for the year ended
December 31, 2005 of $13,190 and the related income tax effect of $4,353 have been
recorded by the Company as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

The unrealized pre-tax income on cash flow hedges for the year ended
December 31, 2004 of $12,941 and the related income tax effect of $3,860 have been
recorded by the Company as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

On March 31, 2005, the Company entered into three interest rate swap
contracts with original notional amounts totaling $204,858. These three interest rate swap
contracts are a result of the November 2004 facility, as amended, which required that the
Company enter into interest rate swap contracts in order to effectively convert at least
seventy percent of the debt associated with operating lease equipment and ninety percent
of the debt associated with direct financing leases from floating rate debt to fixed rate
debt. During December 2005, borrowings under the November 2004 Fortis facility were repaid
with the proceeds from a new facility with the same lender, the ( 2005 Fortis
Facility ). These interest rate swap contracts (which are accounted for as
freestanding derivative instruments) have been reassigned to the 2005 Fortis Facility.
From April 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005, the Company did not enter into any new
interest rate swap contracts.   

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company terminated six
interest rate swap contracts, with outstanding notional amounts totaling $46,035 following
repayment of the related debt. As a result of terminating these swap contracts, the
Company recognized a loss of $378 which is included in fair value adjustment for
derivative instruments in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   

As of December 31, 2005, the Company held interest rate swap agreements
with various financial institutions. The aggregate notional balance of the swaps was
$492,581 as of December 31, 2005.   

For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company reported $2,860 of
pre-tax income in the Consolidated Statements of Income primarily due to changes in the
fair value of interest rate swap agreements which do not qualify as cash flow hedges under
SFAS 133. This compares to $1,511 of pre-tax income for the year ended December 31, 2004.   

In addition to the amounts included in the fair value adjustment for
derivative instruments related to changes in the fair value of interest rate
swap agreements, a change in the fair value of the Warrants issued during
September 2004 in connection with the 6.0% Notes, which is classified as a
liability on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, resulted in non-cash
income of $18,491 for the year ended December 31, 2005 (for which no tax expense
was derived). This compares to a non cash charge of $49,222 for the year ended
December 31, 2004 (for which no tax benefit was derived). These amounts are
included in fair value adjustment for warrants on the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Income.   

As of December 31, 2005, the annual maturities of the notional principal
amounts, with installments payable in varying amounts through 2014, and the weighted
average interest rates expected to be received or paid for interest rate swap contracts
were as follows:   

The weighted average receive rate is based on the floating rate
option specified by the interest rate swap contract which is either one-month or
three-month USD-LIBOR.   

(5)  
  Income taxes:  

Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:   

The $6,396 net reduction to the valuation allowance during the year
related to various items. An $848 increase to the valuation allowance relates to an equity
investment, Chassis Holdings I, LLC. Complete reversals to the valuation allowances of
$7,244 pertain to certain equity investments which have been fully disposed of, and to
state net operating losses which were reclassified as state passive activity losses.
Unlike net operating losses, which have an expiring life, passive activity losses can be
carried forward indefinitely to offset income from future leasing activities.   

Through December 31, 2005, the Company, including CAI, has incurred
passive activity loss carryovers of approximately $371,373 for U.S. federal income tax
purposes and $335,404 for state income tax purposes. These losses can be carried forward
indefinitely to offset income from future leasing activities.   

Two significant subsidiaries of the Company, Interpool Limited and
Interpool Containers Limited ("ICL"),
are Barbados corporations. Under the terms of an income tax convention between the United
States and Barbados (the  Tax Treaty ), Interpool Limited s and ICL s
leasing income is fully taxable by Barbados, but exempt from U.S. Federal taxation. The
Barbados tax rate is a maximum of 2 % of income earned in Barbados.   

The Tax Treaty contains a limitation on benefits provision which denies
treaty benefits under certain circumstances. On July 14, 2004, the United States and
Barbados signed a protocol (the  Protocol ) to the Tax Treaty which was ratified
on December 20, 2004 that contains an even more restrictive limitation of benefits
provision. The Protocol took effect on January 1, 2005. Under the Protocol, Interpool
Limited and ICL are only eligible for Treaty benefits with respect to its container rental
and sales income if, among other things, the Company is listed on a  recognized stock
exchange  and its stock is  primarily  and  regularly  traded on
such exchange.   

During April 2004, the Company was de-listed by the New York Stock
Exchange. During this de-listing, its common stock was traded on the over-the-counter
market under the symbol IPLI. In December 2004, after making all delinquent SEC filings,
the Company applied for re-listing on the New York Stock Exchange. On January 13, 2005 the
Company was again listed, and began trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The
Company s listing and trading volume satisfies the  primarily  and
 regularly  traded requirements of the Protocol, and Interpool Limited qualified
for benefits under the Protocol on January 13, 2005. The Company has estimated there was
no U.S. current tax expense for the period  from January 1, 2005 to January 12, 2005.   

No deferred U.S. Federal income taxes have been provided on the unremitted
earnings of Interpool Limited or ICL since it is the Company s intention to
indefinitely reinvest such earnings. At December 31, 2005 the combined unremitted earnings
of Interpool Limited and ICL were approximately $74,697. The deferred U.S. Federal income
taxes related to the unremitted earnings of Interpool Limited and ICL would be
approximately $19,515, assuming these earnings were taxable at the U.S. statutory rate,
net of foreign tax credits.   

In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the
 AJCA ) was signed into law. The AJCA created a temporary incentive for U.S.
multinationals, such as the Company, to repatriate accumulated income earned outside the
U.S. at an effective rate of approximately 5.25%. On December 27, 2005, pursuant to the
AJCA, Interpool Limited made a distribution to Interpool, Inc. of approximately $305,000
(the  Distribution ), as part of a plan approved by Interpool, Inc. s Board
of Directors to repatriate accumulated and current earnings and profits of Interpool
Limited, which previously had been considered permanently reinvested outside the United
States. During 2005, the Company recorded expenses related to this repatriation of $23,061
which included federal tax provision expense and current tax liability of $17,566 due to
the Distribution and a state tax provision expense and current tax liability of $2,413 due
to Interpool Limited s transfer of substantially all of its operating assets and
liabilities to ICL.   

As companies resident in Barbados, Interpool Limited and ICL are required
to file tax returns in Barbados and pay any tax liability to Barbados. Prior to the third
quarter of 2005, no Barbados tax returns had been prepared or filed for Interpool Limited
for any period subsequent to its 1997 tax year. As of September 30, 2005, all previously
outstanding Barbados tax returns (1998-2004 tax years) were filed. There was no
underpayment of taxes, interest or penalties (other than a nominal late filing penalty)
with the filing of these returns.   

A reconciliation of the U. S. statutory tax rate to the effective tax rate
follows:   

Non-cash income of $18,491 recorded in 2005 pertaining to the decrease in
the Company s liability for warrants is not recognized for Federal income tax
purposes. This resulted in a 7.1% decrease in the Company s actual tax rate. This
compares to non-cash expense of $49,222 recorded in 2004 pertaining to an increase in the
Company s liability for warrants. This expense is non-deductible for Federal income
tax purposes. This resulted in an 81.2% increase in the Company s 2004 actual tax
rate.   

The provision (benefit) for income taxes is as follows:   

(6)  
  Sale of PCR and discontinuation of Microtech s
operations  

During the three months ended September 30, 2001, the Company adopted a
formal plan to dispose of PCR and to discontinue the operations of Microtech, and
liquidate its lease portfolio. Within the historical financial statements of the Company,
PCR and Microtech comprised the computer-leasing segment and specialized in the leasing of
microcomputers and related equipment.   

On December 31, 2001, the Company acquired from the management of
Microtech (who are the same individuals who managed PCR) the remaining 24.5% ownership
interest in Microtech for $792 in cash, thereby increasing the Company s ownership in
Microtech to 100%.   

In addition, on December 31, 2001, the Company completed the contractual
sale of its 51% ownership stake of PCR to an investment group comprised of the management
of PCR. Under the agreement, the Company sold its share of PCR for $3,200. The purchase
price was satisfied through the issuance of a non-recourse note in the amount of $2,560
and a cash payment of $640 received by the Company on January 2, 2002. This transaction
was not accounted for as a sale by the Company because of the level of the Company s
continued involvement in PCR.   

During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company determined that it was
unlikely that PCR would be able to continue as a going concern, and, in the first quarter
of 2003, PCR entered bankruptcy proceedings and began the voluntary liquidation of its
business. As a result, during the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company accrued for its
obligations related to the liquidation of PCR including its guarantee of PCR s debt,
payments made by The Ivy Group, a related company which had assumed guarantees made by
certain officers and directors of the Company, the write-off of computer equipment related
receivables due to Microtech, and the cost of consulting and bonus agreements provided to
key officers of PCR.   

The Ivy Group is a partnership controlled by certain current and former
officers and directors of the Company. The advances made by The Ivy Group to PCR were
considered capital contributions to the Company and payments by the Company to PCR. The
payments to PCR were determined to be uncollectible and, accordingly, were written off by
the Company as described above. Payments made by the Ivy Group in 2002 amounting to $1,983
were included in additional paid-in-capital. The remaining payments made in 2003 amounting
to $698 were recorded in additional paid-in-capital during 2003 when the payments were
made.   

(7)  
  Lease securitization program:  

On March 30, 1999, the Company entered into an asset backed note program
(the  ABN Program ). The ABN Program involved the sale by the Company of direct
financing leases collateralized by intermodal containers. The assets were sold to a
qualified special purpose entity whose sole business activity is issuing asset backed
notes ( ABNs ), supported by the future cash flows of the assets and the
underlying residuals.   

The Company s retained interest in this program was accounted for at
fair value, with any changes in fair value over its allocated historical book value
recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax, in
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders  Equity. As of September 30,
2003 the Company s estimated fair market value of its retained interest was $3,801,
using a discounted cash flow model assuming expected credit losses of 1.5% and a discount
rate of 12.6%. Prior to October 1, 2003, the Company recorded interest income on the
retained interest totaling $976 which is included in equipment leasing revenue in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. Impairment losses of $571 for the nine
months ended September 30, 2003 were recorded and included in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Income based upon changes in management s projected cash
flows of the underlying direct financing lease receivables in the securitization trust.
The impairment charge recorded in 2003 resulted primarily from an amendment and waiver
dated September 19, 2003, wherein the Company agreed that all future cash flows generated
by the securitization facility that would have otherwise been remitted to the Company in
satisfaction of its retained interest would be used to reduce the remaining obligations of
its container securitization facility until such obligations were fully repaid. In
addition, the Company agreed to defer its receipt of servicing fees. Once all obligations
were repaid, the Company began receiving the future lease payments in satisfaction of its
net investment in direct financing leases and deferred servicing fees. For the nine months
ended September 30, 2003 cash flows received on the retained interest were $6,923.   

Effective October 1, 2003, a customer elected to return a portion of the
equipment covered by a direct financing lease which had been included in a qualified
special purpose entity as part of the lease securitization program. The equipment was
subsequently leased to another customer under the terms of an operating lease agreement.
As such, the lease could no longer be considered a financial asset and the Securitization
Trust special purpose entity could no longer be treated as an off-balance sheet qualified
special purpose entity for accounting purposes. Therefore, effective October 1, 2003, the
Company consolidated the assets and liabilities of this special purpose entity. As a
result, the Company recorded the net investment in direct financing leases of $19,742 on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets which represents the remaining lease payments for the
direct financing leases in the securitization, net of the interest implicit in the leases.
In addition, the Company recorded leasing equipment of $1,326 related to the equipment
subsequently leased under the terms of the operating lease agreement. The remaining
obligations under the ABN s amounting to $17,793 were recorded as debt and capital
lease obligations on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at October 1, 2003. After
consolidating these and other assets and liabilities of the special purpose entity, net of
the book value of the Company s retained interest in the securitization of $3,801 on
October 1, 2003, the Company recognized income of $2,870 in other (income)/expense, net in
the Consolidated Statements of Income at October 1, 2003. This income resulted from the
favorable credit loss experience through September 30, 2003 on the underlying direct
financing leases as compared to the assumed credit losses of 1.5%.   

Interpool Limited (the  Servicer ) a subsidiary of the Company
acted as servicer for the assets prior to October 1, 2003. Pursuant to the terms of the
servicing agreement as amended on October 18, 2002, the Servicer was paid a fee of 0.75%
of the assets under management. The Company s management determined that the
servicing fee paid approximates the fair value for services provided, as such, no
servicing asset or liability was recorded. For the nine months ended September 30, 2003
the Company received servicing fees totaling $706 which are included in equipment leasing
revenue in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Income.   

(8)  
  Other contingencies and commitments:  

Lease Commitments:  The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to
various operating leases relating to office facilities, transportation vehicles, and
certain other equipment with various expiration dates through 2012. All leasing
arrangements contain normal leasing terms without unusual purchase options or escalation
clauses. Rental expense under operating leases aggregated $16,788, $20,927, and $21,470
for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.   

As of December 31, 2005, the aggregate minimum rental commitment
under operating leases having initial or remaining noncancelable lease terms in excess of
one year was as follows:   

The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various capital leases and
obligated to make payments related to its long-term borrowings. See Note 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Employment Agreements:  The Company has entered into employment
agreements with certain executive officers and employees which provide for minimum salary,
bonus arrangements and benefits for periods from 1 to 7 years. As of December 31, 2005,
the minimum obligation related to these agreements approximated $10,467.   

Separation Agreements:  As previously disclosed, the Company has
entered into separation agreements with its former President and Chief Operating Officer
and its former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer that provided for
payments and benefits for periods of 1 to 5 years. As of December 31, 2005, the remaining
obligation related to these agreements approximated $1,259 and is payable through 2008.
Expenses related to these separation agreements amounting to $12,935 were recorded during
2003, including the compensation expense resulting from the modification of the terms of
the fully vested options held by the Company s former President. During 2004, as
contemplated by the separation agreement with the Company s former President and
Chief Operating Officer, the Company paid and recorded to expense, employment related
taxes in connection with the previous employment of this executive officer prior to
October 9, 2003, amounting to $274. These taxes could not be estimated in 2003 and a
portion of these taxes may be recoverable by the Company from the former President and
Chief Operating Officer under certain circumstances.   

   Guarantees:  At December 31, 2005, the following guarantees were issued
and outstanding:  

Indemnifications  : In the ordinary course of business,
the Company executes contracts involving indemnifications standard in the industry and
indemnifications specific to a transaction such as an assignment and assumption agreement.
These indemnifications might include claims related to any of the following: tax matters
and governmental regulations, and contractual relationships. Performance under these
indemnities would generally be triggered by a breach of terms of the contract or by a
third party claim. The Company regularly evaluates the probability of having to incur
costs associated with these indemnifications and have accrued for any expected losses that
are probable. The types of indemnifications for which payment are possible are as follows:   

Taxes:   In the ordinary course of business, the
Company provides various tax-related indemnifications as part of transactions. The
indemnified party typically is protected from certain events that result in a tax
treatment different from that originally anticipated. The Company s liability
typically is fixed when a final determination of the indemnified party s tax
liability is made. In some cases, a payment under a tax indemnification may be offset in
whole or in part by refunds from the applicable governmental taxing authority. The Company
is party to numerous tax indemnifications and many of these indemnities do not limit
potential payment; therefore, it is unable to estimate a maximum amount of potential
future payments that could result from claims made under these indemnities. 

Contractual Relationships:   The Company entered into a
number of operating leases during 2000 and 2002 in which it guaranteed a portion of the
residual value of the leased equipment. These leases have terms that expire between 6 and
9 years. If at the end of the lease term the fair market value of the equipment is below
the guaranteed residual value in the agreement, the Company is liable for a percentage of
the deficiency. The total of these guarantees is $12,405 of which $8,012 could be due in 2
to 3 years, $3,793 could be due in 4 to 5 years, and the remaining $600 potentially due in
greater than 5 years. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, included in accounts payable and
accrued expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets is a liability of $232
and $188, respectively, representing the accrual for these guarantees. 

During the second quarter of 2003, the Company arranged a leasing transaction
between one of its major customers and a financial institution for up to 3,000
containers. As part of this transaction, the Company agreed to provide certain
guarantees related to the fair value of the equipment if the lessee terminated
the lease or if the lessee was unable to meet its obligations under the terms of
the lease. In addition, if the lessee agreed to extend the lease, the Company
agreed to purchase the equipment from the financial institution at a stated
value and lease it to the lessee for this additional period at a stated lease
rate. The Company further agreed to provide the lessee with a purchase option at
the end of the extended lease period that would be less than the fair market
value of the equipment at the date the lessee could exercise its option (the
 Bargain Purchase Option ). 

In return for the arrangement of the transaction on behalf of the financial
institution and the guarantees discussed above, the Company was paid an
arrangement fee and a portion of the initial rent for each container included in
the lease. During the year ended December 31, 2003, 2,076 containers were
delivered to the lessee and the Company received payments amounting to $1,240.
The remaining 924 containers were purchased by the Company and leased to the
customer under the terms of a direct financing lease. 

The estimated fair value at the end of the lease term guaranteed by the Company
for these containers amounts to approximately $4,360. The Company has estimated
that its potential liability related to these guarantees is less than the
estimated potential liability related to the Bargain Purchase Option granted to
the lessee. As such, the Company has accrued for the estimated value of its
liability for this Bargain Purchase Option amounting to $1,017 that could be due
in greater than 5 years. All fees collected from the lessor have been deferred
by the Company and included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fees received from the lessor, net
of the estimated liability for the Bargain Purchase Option, are being recognized
by the Company over the term of the residual guarantee. 

Standby Letters of Credit:   As of December 31, 2005, CAI, a
consolidated subsidiary of the Company, has an outstanding letter of credit
totaling $263 which guarantees its obligation under an operating lease
agreement. This letter of credit expires in December 2006. 

Other:    

At December 31, 2005, commitments for capital expenditures for
leasing equipment totaled approximately $74,198, with approximately $63,818
committed for 2006 and $10,380 committed for 2007.   

The Company is engaged in various legal proceedings from time to time
incidental to the conduct of its business. Such proceedings may relate to claims arising
out of equipment accidents that occur from time to time which involve death and injury to
persons and damage to property. Accordingly, the Company requires all of its lessees to
indemnify the Company against any losses arising out of such accidents or other
occurrences while the chassis are on-hire to the lessees. In addition, lessees are
generally required to maintain a minimum of $2,000 in general liability insurance coverage
which is standard in the industry. In addition, the Company maintains a general liability
policy of $255,000 in the event that the above lessee coverage is insufficient. While the
Company believes that such coverage should be adequate to cover current claims, there can
be no guarantee that future claims will never exceed such amounts. Nevertheless, the
Company believes that no current or potential claims of which it is aware will have a
material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations and that the
Company is adequately insured against such claims.   

Pending Governmental Investigations    

Following the Company s announcement in July 2003 that its Audit
Committee had commissioned an internal investigation by special counsel into its
accounting, the Company was notified that the SEC had opened an informal investigation of
Interpool. As the Company had anticipated, this investigation was converted to a formal
investigation later in 2003. The Company has fully cooperated with this investigation.
During 2003 and 2004, the New York office of the SEC received a copy of the written report
of the internal investigation and received documents and information from the Company, its
Audit Committee and certain other parties pursuant to SEC subpoenas. During late 2003, the
Company was also advised that the United States Attorney s office for the District of
New Jersey received a copy of the written report of the internal investigation by its
Audit Committee s special counsel and opened an investigation focusing on certain
matters described in the report. The Company was informed that Interpool was neither a
subject nor a target of the investigation by the U.S. Attorney s office. The Company
has not had any communications with either the SEC or the U.S. Attorney s office
relating to their respective investigations since 2004 and it does not have any
information regarding the current status of either of these investigations. Therefore, the
Company cannot predict the final outcome of either of these investigations and cannot be
assured that they may not result in the taking of some action that may be adverse to the
Company.   

Stockholder Litigation    

In February and March 2004, several lawsuits were filed in the United
States District Court for the District of New Jersey, by purchasers of the Company s
common stock naming the Company and certain of its present and former executive officers
and directors as defendants. The complaints alleged violations of the federal securities
laws relating to the Company s reported Consolidated Financial Statements for the
years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001 and the nine months ended September 30, 2002, which
the Company announced in March 2003 would require restatement. Each of the complaints
purported to be a class action brought on behalf of persons who purchased the
Company s securities during a specified period. In April 2004, the lawsuits, which
seek unspecified amounts of compensatory damages and costs and expenses, including legal
fees, were consolidated into a single action with lead plaintiffs and lead counsel having
been appointed. The plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint in September 2004,
which includes allegations of purported misstatements and omissions in the Company s
public disclosures throughout an expanded purported class period from March 31, 1999
through December 26, 2003. In November 2004, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the
amended complaint. The motion to dismiss was granted by the District Court on August 18,
2005, dismissing the plaintiffs  claims in their entirety and with prejudice. On
September 19, 2005, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of the dismissal order,
thereby initiating a review of the District Court s decision by the United States
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.   

In view of the costs and uncertainties described above and which are
inherent in the litigation process, the Company elected to participate in the Third
Circuit s mediation program through which a settlement of this litigation was
negotiated. Following the conclusion of these negotiations, the Company received a letter
dated December 8, 2005 from the Director of the Appellate Mediation Program for the United
States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, confirming the settlement terms for this
class action litigation, to which all parties have agreed, which are: (1) a cash payment
on behalf of defendants in the total amount of $1,000, inclusive of all of the fees and
expenses of plaintiffs  counsel, and (2) the dismissal of all claims against the
Company and the other defendants on a class-wide basis. The entire $1,000 payment will be
funded by the Company s insurance carrier. The agreed settlement terms have been
embodied in a formal settlement agreement that will be submitted to the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey, and will be subject to approval by the
District Court. The Court of Appeals has remanded the case to the District Court for
consideration of the settlement.   

In the event that the settlement is not approved and if the appeal were
thereby revived and if the District Court s decision granting the Company s
motion to dismiss is reversed, the Company would expect to incur additional defense costs
typical of this type of class action litigation, which should be substantially recoverable
under the Company s insurance policies. If the Company is required to defend this
lawsuit, the Company intends to do so vigorously but is unable at this time to ascertain
the impact the litigation may have on its financial condition and results of operations.
On the other hand, if the settlement is approved or the District Court s decision is
affirmed after full appellate review, the case and its associated litigation costs will be
concluded.   

(9)  
  Cash flow information:  

For purposes of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, the Company
includes all highly liquid short-term investments with an original maturity of three
months or less in cash and cash equivalents.   

For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, cash paid for
interest was approximately $119,226, $108,542 and $105,272, respectively. Cash paid for
income taxes was approximately $8,831, $1,202 and $2,175, respectively.   

(10)  
  Related party transactions:  

In January 1992 the Company executed a Consultation Services Agreement
with Radcliff Group, Inc. pursuant to which Radcliff designated Warren L. Serenbetz, a
stockholder and director until December 15, 2004, as an executive consultant. The
Consultation Services Agreement was terminated in January 1995. Under the terms of the
agreement compensation continued through December 2002 and payment of health related costs
will continue through December 31, 2007. The final payment under the terms of the
Consultation Services Agreement was made in January 2003.   

Eurochassis L.P., a New Jersey limited partnership in which Raoul J.
Witteveen, our former President and Chief Operating Officer, is one of the limited
partners and the general partner, leases 100 chassis to Trac Lease, a subsidiary of
Interpool. Annual lease expense amounted to $78, $86 and $91 for the years ended December
31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The annual lease term renews automatically unless
canceled or renewed under renegotiated lease rate terms by either party prior to the first
day of the renewal period. The members of the Board of Directors have unanimously
determined that the terms of all arrangements between Eurochassis L.P. and Trac Lease are
beneficial and fair to the Company.   

In January 1998, the Company entered into a non-exclusive Consulting
Agreement with Atlas Capital Partners, LLC ( Atlas ) pursuant to which Atlas
provided investment banking consultation services. Mitchell I. Gordon, a Director of
Interpool from 1998 to October 2003 and Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice
President from October 2000 to July 2003 also served as president of Atlas when the
Consulting Agreement was entered into. Under the terms of the Consulting Agreement, Atlas
was to have been paid $240 (plus reimbursement of reasonable expenses), additional
compensation of $560 and a twenty percent carried interest in investments made with funds
provided by Interpool. In addition, Atlas was contractually entitled to an annual bonus in
an amount that is usual and customary in the investment banking business for investment
opportunities actually completed by the Company subject to set-off of the $560 additional
compensation. As of October 2000, the Consulting Agreement was terminated with the
exception of the deferred compensation related to the acquisition of Transamerica. Mr.
Gordon resigned as an officer and director of the Company in 2003.   

Chassis Holdings I, LLC    

The Ivy Group, which is a New Jersey general partnership composed directly
or indirectly of Martin Tuchman, Radcliff Group, Inc., Raoul J. Witteveen, Thomas P.
Birnie and Graham K. Owen, has previously leased chassis to Trac Lease, Inc. ( Trac
Lease ). As of December 31, 2000, pursuant to various equipment lease agreements,
Trac Lease leased 6,047 chassis from The Ivy Group and its principals for an aggregate
annual lease payment of approximately $2,900. On January 1, 2001, the various leases for
the 6,047 units were combined into a single lease pursuant to which The Ivy Group and its
principals were paid an aggregate lease payment of $2,691 through June 30, 2001. On July
1, 2001, the Company restructured its relationship with The Ivy Group and its principals
to provide the Company with managerial control over 6,047 chassis previously leased by
Trac Lease, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, from The Ivy Group. As a result of
the restructuring, the partners of The Ivy Group contributed these 6,047 chassis and
certain other assets and liabilities to a newly formed subsidiary, Chassis Holdings I, LLC
( Chassis Holdings ), in exchange for $26,000 face value of preferred membership
units and 10% of the common membership units, and Trac Lease contributed 902 chassis and
$2 in cash to Chassis Holdings in exchange for $3,000 face value of preferred membership
units and 90% of the common membership units. The preferred membership units are entitled
to receive a preferred return prior to the receipt of any distributions by the holders of
the common membership units. The value of the contributed chassis was determined by taking
the arithmetic average of the results of independent appraisals performed by three
nationally recognized appraisal firms in connection with the Company s establishment
of a chassis securitization facility in July 2000. As the managing member of Chassis
Holdings, Trac Lease exercises sole managerial control over the entity s operations.
Chassis Holdings leases all of its chassis to Trac Lease at a rental rate equal to the
then current Trac Lease fleet average per diem. Chassis Holdings and the holders of the
preferred membership units are party to a Put/Call Agreement which provides that the
holders of preferred units may put such units to Chassis Holdings under certain
circumstances and Chassis Holdings may redeem such units under certain circumstances.
Chassis Holdings will be required to make certain option payments to the holders of the
preferred membership units in order to preserve its right to redeem such units.   

Based on 90% common unit ownership held by Trac Lease, the Company s
Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Chassis Holdings. The Ivy
Group s interest in the common and preferred units of Chassis Holdings of
approximately $26,271 is classified as minority interest in equity of subsidiaries in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Dividends paid on the common units and
distributions on the preferred units totaling $3,071, $3,071 and $2,906 for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, are included in minority interest expense in
the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.   

The members of the Board of Directors have unanimously determined that the
terms of all arrangements between The Ivy Group and Trac Lease, including the formation of
Chassis Holdings, are beneficial and fair to the Company.   

PCR Transactions    

In July 2000, Yardville National Bank (a subsidiary of an entity in which
the Company s Chief Executive Officer owns approximately five percent of the common
stock and serves on the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors) extended a
revolving credit facility of $2,500 to PCR, secured by substantially all of PCR s
assets. On August 31, 2000 this facility was increased to $5,000.   

In connection with the sale of PCR in December 2001, Martin Tuchman and
Raoul Witteveen agreed in March 2002 to guarantee this line of credit between PCR and
Yardville National Bank which had been reduced to $3,000 and the Company was released from
a guarantee it had previously executed. This guarantee was subsequently paid off through
advances made to PCR by The Ivy Group. PCR s line of credit with Yardville National
Bank was reduced to $1,656 in March 2002 and later increased to $2,000 in September 2002.
Advances amounting to $698 and $1,983 in 2003 and 2002, respectively, were made to PCR by
The Ivy Group to pay off borrowings under the line of credit and to provide working
capital. The Ivy Group is a partnership controlled by certain current and former officers
and directors of the Company. The advances made by The Ivy Group to PCR are considered
capital contributions to the Company and payments by the Company to PCR. The payments to
PCR were determined to be uncollectible and were expensed by the Company in 2002. Payments
made in 2002 amounting to $1,983 were included in additional paid-in-capital. The
remaining payments made in 2003 of $698 were recorded in additional paid-in-capital during
2003 when the payments were made.   

Since 2000, the Company has guaranteed PCR debts due to third parties
totaling $5,000. At December 31, 2002, with PCR in liquidation, a determination was made
that it was probable that the Company would incur costs related to the guarantee. As a
result, the Company recorded a liability for $4,429 representing its guarantee of PCR
debts, net of amounts collected related to PCR s liquidation. The $5,000 guarantee
was paid off through a secured financing arrangement with another financial institution
completed by the Company in July 2004.   

Bank Loans    

In April 2003 and August 2003 the Company borrowed $16,000 and $7,000,
respectively, from Yardville National Bank. The term of the $16,000 loan was three years
with thirty-four fixed monthly principal payments of $250 commencing May 25, 2003 and a
final principal payment of $7,500 due on March 25, 2006. Interest was payable monthly, at
an initial rate of 4.25%, and was adjusted monthly to the prime rate as published in the
Wall Street Journal subject to a 4% minimum and 5% maximum per annum rate.   

The term of the $7,000 loan was five years with fifty-nine monthly
principal payments of $75 commencing September 7, 2003 and a final principal payment of
$2,575 due on August 7, 2008. Interest was payable monthly, at an initial rate of 4%, and
was adjusted monthly to the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal subject to
a 4% minimum and 6% maximum per annum rate.   

During November 2004, the Company paid in full both of these facilities.
In connection with our borrowings from Yardville National Bank, our Board of Directors
unanimously determined that the interest rate and other terms of such borrowings were at
least as favorable to us as could have been obtained in an arms -length transaction
with an unrelated third party.   

Fathom Co., LTD Agency Fees    

The Company paid Fathom Co., LTD ( Fathom ), its local
representative in Taiwan, $116 for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 to represent the Company with the Taiwan depots that store and repair damaged
containers and to provide customer support. Fathom is owned by a Regional Vice President
of Interpool Limited (who is not an executive officer of the Company) and members of his
family. Management has determined that the fee for these services between Fathom and
Interpool Limited were beneficial and fair to the Company. The arrangement with Fathom was
terminated as of February 28, 2006. Effective March 1, 2006, the
services previously provided by Fathom were undertaken by a Taiwan branch office of a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.   

Summary of Related Party Transactions    

The effects of the above related party transactions included in the
accompanying Consolidated Statement of Income are as follows:   

(11)  
  Relationship with CAI:  

The Company owns a 50% common equity interest in CAI, which the Company
acquired in April 1998. The remaining 50% common equity interest in CAI is owned by
CAI s Chief Executive Officer, Hiro Ogawa. CAI owns and leases-in its own fleet of
containers and also manages, for a fee, containers owned by the Company and by third
parties. The Company entered into its operating relationship with CAI primarily to
facilitate the leasing in the short-term market of containers coming off long-term
operating lease, to gain access to new companies looking to lease containers on a
long-term basis and to realize cost efficiencies from the operation of a coordinated
container lease marketing group. For containers managed by CAI for the Company in the
short-term market, the Company earns the net operating income and pays CAI a fee for
managing the Company s equipment and leasing it on the Company s behalf. The
management fee calculation is based on the average daily net operating income of
CAI s fleet of owned, leased-in and managed containers (including the portion of
CAI s fleet that consists of our equipment) for each day such managed containers are
part of the CAI fleet. The marketing group, which is organized as a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Interpool, is responsible for soliciting container lease business for both
Interpool and CAI, including long-term operating and direct financing lease business and
short-term lease business under master lease agreements. Pursuant to the Company s
agreements with CAI, the Company has a right to purchase all long-term operating and
direct financing lease business generated by the marketing group, subject to offering to
CAI, at cost, 10% of this long-term operating and direct financing lease business plus an
additional portion of the long-term lease business to be mutually agreed with CAI for sale
by CAI to investors for whom CAI manages containers. By mutual agreement, CAI has
purchased for its own account and for the account of third party investors long-term
operating and direct financing lease business the marketing group has generated in excess
of 10% of the marketing group s long-term operating and direct financing lease
business. The Company s existing agreements with CAI also contemplated that the
Company would pay CAI an annual  Earn Out  fee in consideration for the transfer
of CAI s marketing employees to the marketing group, but, to date, by mutual
agreement, this provision has been waived. In addition, on occasion, the Company has
entered into transactions with CAI pursuant to which the Company has acquired equipment,
and the related leases, from CAI on terms that resulted in a profit for CAI. Such
equipment, as well as certain other containers purchased from time to time, are currently
managed for the Company by CAI for a fee based upon the actual net operating income earned
by such containers, or in certain instances, for a flat fee.   

In April 2004, the Company reached an agreement with CAI resolving a
number of open matters relating to the various agreements between the two companies,
including appropriate remedial compensation for age differences between the Company s
containers managed by CAI and the balance of CAI s managed fleet, pursuant to certain
provisions of the Operating and Administration Agreement between the Company and CAI (the
 CAI Agreement ). Pursuant to this agreement with CAI, during 2004 the Company
paid CAI $2,000 for resolution of these open issues through February 29, 2004. The impact
of this agreement was recorded by the Company during the three months ended March 31,
2004, as a reduction in consolidated pre-tax income of $1,000 ($600 net of tax). As a
result of this agreement, the Company anticipates that the earnings related to certain of
the Company s containers managed by CAI will be reduced to the extent the average age
of such containers exceeds the average age of all other containers in CAI s fleet.   

In connection with the acquisition of its 50% common equity interest in
CAI in 1998, the Company loaned CAI $33,650 under a subordinated note agreement, which is
collateralized by all containers owned by CAI as of April 30, 1998 or thereafter acquired,
subject to the priority security interest lien of CAI s senior credit facility,
except for certain excluded collateral. Interest on this subordinated note is at an annual
fixed rate of 10.5% and is payable quarterly. The original repayment terms required
mandatory quarterly principal payments of $1,683 beginning July 30, 2003 and ending on
April 30, 2008. The subordinated note was subject to certain financial covenants and was
cross-collateralized with CAI s senior credit facility, subject to the terms of a
subordination agreement.   

On June 27, 2002, CAI entered into an amended $110,000 senior revolving
credit agreement with a group of financial institutions. To facilitate the closing of this
new credit facility, the Company agreed to extend the repayment terms of its subordinated
note so as to require mandatory quarterly principal payments of $1,683 beginning July 30,
2006 and ending on April 30, 2011. The Company also agreed to modify certain financial
covenants in the subordinated note. Interest on the subordinated note continues to accrue
at an annual fixed rate of 10.5%, payable quarterly. The subordinated note continued to be
cross-collateralized with CAI s senior credit agreement, subject to the terms of an
amended and restated subordination agreement. In connection with these modifications, Mr.
Ogawa, CAI s Chief Executive Officer and owner of the 50% common equity interest in
CAI that the Company does not own, agreed that the Company would have the right to
designate a majority of the members of CAI s board of directors so long as the
subordinated note remained outstanding. As a result of these transactions and gaining a
majority position on CAI s board, the Company s financial statements have
included CAI as a consolidated subsidiary since June 27, 2002.   

On April 28, 2005, CAI replaced its $110,000 secured revolving credit
facility, which had an outstanding principal balance of $58,500 as of March 31, 2005 (not
including letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $6,000 as of March 31, 2005) and
was scheduled to expire on June 27, 2005, with a new senior secured revolving credit
facility. The new credit facility has a total commitment amount of up to $175,000 and was
provided by a group of banks. The interest rate under the revolving line of credit varies
depending upon whether the loans are characterized as base rate loans or Eurodollar rate
loans. In addition, there is a commitment fee on the unused amount of the total commitment
which fee is payable quarterly in arrears. The new credit facility provides that swing
line loans (up to $10,000 in the aggregate) and standby letters of credit (up to $15,000
in the aggregate) will be available to CAI, which sublimits are part of, and not in
addition to, the total commitment of $175,000 under the new credit facility. The term of
this revolving credit facility is three years. The revolving credit facility contains
various financial and other covenants.   

On April 28, 2005, in connection with the first advance under its new
revolving credit facility, CAI repaid the outstanding principal balance of $58,000 on the
existing revolving credit facility (plus interest and additional fees) and repaid $15,143
of the amounts owed to the Company under the outstanding $33,650 subordinated note issued
by CAI to the Company in 1998. This repayment returned the subordinated note to the
original payment schedule in effect before it was modified in 2002. The remaining balance
of the subordinated note, totaling $16,825 as of December 31, 2005, is required to be
repaid in equal quarterly installments of approximately $1,683 through April 30, 2008. In
addition, the financial covenants associated with this subordinated note were amended in
April 2005.   

A total of $64,000 and $65,000 was outstanding under CAI s senior
revolving credit facilities at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Borrowings under
CAI s senior credit facility are secured by substantially all of CAI s assets,
other than certain excluded assets. The senior credit facility contains various financial
and other covenants. At December 31, 2005, CAI was in compliance with these covenants.   

As noted above, in connection with the June 2002 modifications to the
Company s subordinated note, Mr. Ogawa agreed that, until the subordinated note is
paid in full, the Company would have the right to designate a majority of the members of
CAI s board of directors. Since the time this agreement was entered into, CAI s
board of directors has consisted of five directors, three of whom were appointed by the
Company and two of whom were appointed by Mr. Ogawa.   

In May 1998, CAI granted options to certain of its key employees to
purchase Series A cumulative preferred stock of CAI. Each of these individuals was given
the opportunity to exercise these options by investing the after tax proceeds from stock
appreciation rights previously granted to these employees. In addition, CAI provided a
full recourse loan to finance the remaining portion of the exercise price. This loan was
in the form of a promissory note that was secured by a pledge of the stock acquired
through the exercise of the options. The options were exercised in May 1998 at an exercise
price of $496.11 per share and, at December 31, 2005, there were 1,726 outstanding shares
of this CAI preferred stock.   

So long as the preferred stock has not yet been redeemed by CAI or the
employee, at such time as a liquidity event takes place, defined as an initial public
offering or a sale to parties other than Mr. Ogawa or the Company, the preferred stock
will be converted into an equal number of shares of CAI s common stock. This
preferred stock is subject to variable accounting in CAI s financial statements for
the portion of the preferred stock acquired using the proceeds of the loan from CAI.
During the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, the management of CAI
concluded that there was no change to the valuation of the preferred shares of
CAI and, therefore, no stock compensation charge was recorded in
CAI's financial statements for those periods. In the fourth quarter of 2005, CAI
determined that a change in the valuation of its preferred shares had, in fact,
taken place during these periods as well as for the year ended December 31,
2005. The Company has determined that the effect of
this previously undetected error related to CAI's valuation of its preferred
stock and corresponding stock compensation charge is immaterial to the consolidated financial statements of the Company for
the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004. In order to properly reflect these
adjustments for the three years ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded
additional compensation expense of $4,451 ($2,226, net of minority interest
income) during the fourth quarter of 2005.

During the third quarter of 2005, pursuant to the terms of the Shareholder
Agreement the Company entered into with Mr. Ogawa when the Company acquired its 50% common
equity interest in CAI in 1998, Mr. Ogawa notified the Company that he was exercising his
contractual right to request an independent valuation of CAI. An investment banking firm
was engaged by CAI s board of directors to conduct this valuation and the valuation
was completed during the fourth quarter of 2005. The Company advised Mr. Ogawa that, after
review of this valuation, the Company had decided not to exercise its right under the
Shareholder Agreement to make an offer to acquire his 50% common equity interest in CAI
for an amount equal to his percentage interest of the fair value of CAI as determined by
the investment banking firm. The Shareholder Agreement provides that if the Company does
not elect to make such an offer, Mr. Ogawa has a right to require CAI to take the
necessary steps to effect an initial public offering to sell his equity, with all costs
associated with any such initial public offering of CAI being borne by CAI.   

In addition, CAI has entered into sale-leaseback transactions with third
parties pursuant to which CAI sells maritime shipping containers to such third parties and
then leases the shipping containers back from such third parties. Certain of these leases
contain financial and other covenants. At December 31, 2005, CAI was in compliance with
these covenants.   

During the period from 1998 to December 2003, there were several
inter-company transactions wherein Interpool acquired equipment, and the related leases
from CAI, at terms that resulted in a profit for CAI. These transactions were negotiated
on an arms-length basis and management believes that the terms are similar to those that a
third party would have negotiated with CAI under the circumstances.   

During 2005, 2004, and 2003, Interpool paid CAI $1,996, $1,761 and $1,774
respectively for the management of its equipment.   

Subsequent to June 27, 2002, revenues and expenses for transactions
between the Company and CAI are eliminated in consolidation. Minority interest expense
recorded by the Company related to its investment in CAI for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004 was $3,908 and $5,696, respectively. This compares to minority interest
income recorded by the Company for the year ended December 31, 2003 of $1,151.   

See Note 18 for additional information about CAI.   

Certain subsidiaries have defined contribution plans covering
substantially all full-time employees. Participating employees may make contributions to
the plan, through payroll deductions. Matching contributions are made by the Company equal
to 75% of the employee s contribution to the extent such employee contribution did
not exceed 6% of their compensation. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, the Company expensed approximately $643, $533 and $454, respectively, related to
this plan. These amounts are included in administrative expense on the Consolidated
Statement of Income.   

(13)  
  Segment and geographic data:  

The Company and its subsidiaries conduct business principally in a single
industry segment, the leasing of intermodal dry freight standard containers, chassis and
other transportation related equipment. Within this single industry segment, the majority
of the Companies operations come from two reportable segments: container leasing, and
domestic intermodal equipment leasing. The container leasing segment specializes primarily
in the leasing of dry freight standard containers, while the domestic intermodal equipment
segment specializes primarily in the leasing of intermodal container chassis. Within the
historical financial statements, the Company also previously had limited operations in a
third reportable segment that specialized in leasing microcomputers and related equipment.   

The computer leasing segment consisted of two subsidiaries, Microtech
Leasing Corporation ( Microtech ) and Personal Computer Rentals
( PCR ). During the third quarter of 2001, the Company adopted a plan to exit
this segment. As of December 31, 2002 the assets of Microtech continued to be liquidated
and PCR s financial condition had deteriorated. PCR ceased active operations and
liquidated in 2003. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December
31, 2004, all assets of Microtech and PCR were liquidated.   

The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in
Note 1. The Company evaluates performance based on profit or loss before income taxes. The
Company s reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different
products and services. All significant transactions between segments have been eliminated.
Historically, funds have been borrowed by Interpool, Inc. Trac Lease, and Interpool
Limited (or their subsidiaries). Interpool, Inc. has borrowed all of the Company s
public debt. Trac Lease and Interpool, Inc. comprise the Company s domestic
intermodal equipment segment. Interpool Limited (and its subsidiaries) along with ICL and
CAI comprise the container leasing segment. For purposes of segment reporting the
outstanding debt and related interest expense are recorded by the borrowing entity.
Advance rates for secured loans have been approximately the same for both chassis and
containers, and have generally been in the 75-85% range. To the extent that we lease
chassis equipment in from other parties, the effective advance rate is generally 100%.   

Segment Information:   

The Company s shipping line customers utilize international
containers in world trade over many varied and changing trade routes. In addition, most
large shipping lines have many offices in various countries involved in container
operations. The Company s revenue from international containers is earned while the
containers are used in service carrying cargo around the world, while certain other
equipment is utilized in the United States. Accordingly, the international information
presented below represents our international container leasing operation conducted through
Interpool Limited and ICL, Barbados corporations, while the United States information
presented below represents our domestic intermodal equipment leasing segment, as well as
those revenues and assets relative to CAI which is headquartered in the United States of
America. Such presentation is consistent with industry practice.   

Geographic Information :  

The Company s 2004 Stock Option Plan for Key Employees and Directors
(the  2004 Plan ), was adopted by the Board of Directors, and approved by the
stockholders at the Company s Annual Meeting of Stockholders, on December 15, 2004. A
total of 1,500,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under the 2004
Plan. Options may be granted under the 2004 Plan, at the discretion of the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Compensation Committee ), to key
employees and directors (whether or not they are employees) of Interpool, Inc. and its
subsidiaries. The number of shares that may be the subject of options granted during any
calendar year to any one individual cannot exceed 250,000 shares. During 2005 350,000
options were granted under this plan. No options were granted under this plan during 2004.   

Previously, the Company maintained a 1993 Stock Option Plan for Executive
Officers and Directors (the  1993 Stock Option Plan ). At December 31, 2005 a
total of 2,663,063 options were outstanding under the 1993 Stock Option Plan. No further
options may be granted under the 1993 Stock Option Plan.   

The Company s 1993 Stock Option Plan was adopted by the
Company s Board of Directors and approved by the stockholders in March 1993. A total
of 6,000,000 shares of common stock had been reserved for issuance under the Stock Option
Plan. Options were granted under the Stock Option Plan to executive officers and directors
of the Company or a subsidiary (including any executive consultant of the Company and its
subsidiaries), whether or not they were employees. These options vested six months from
date of grant and expired ten years from the date of grant.   

The Company s 2004 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee,
Non-Officer Directors (the  2004 Directors Plan ), was also adopted by the Board
of Directors, and approved by the stockholders at the Company s 2004 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders on December 15, 2004. A total of 250,000 shares of common stock have been
reserved for issuance under the 2004 Directors Plan. The exercise price per share is the
fair market value of the Company s common stock on the date on which the option was
granted. The options granted pursuant to the 2004 Directors Plan may be exercised at the
rate of one-third of the shares on the first anniversary of the options  grant date
and one-third of the shares on the second anniversary of the options  grant date and
one-third of the shares on the third anniversary of the options  grant date, subject
to applicable holding periods required under rules of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Options granted pursuant to the 2004 Directors Plan expire ten years from
their grant date.   

The 2004 Directors Plan provides for the automatic grant of nonqualified
options to non-employee non-officer directors. Under the 2004 Directors Plan, each person
who is not an employee or officer and who serves as a member of the Board of Directors
received a grant of options for 15,000 shares of common stock on the business day
following the annual meeting. As a result, options for 90,000 shares of common stock were
granted on December 16, 2004 to six non-employee, non-officer directors at an exercise
price of $22.05. In addition, each person who becomes a non-employee non-officer director
following the 2004 Annual Meeting will automatically receive a grant of options for 15,000
shares on the first business day after becoming a director. The 2004 Directors Plan also
provides for additional automatic grants of options for 5,000 shares on an annual basis to
each continuing director, other than an employee or officer, on the first business day
following each future annual meeting, beginning with the annual meeting held during 2005.
As a result, options for 30,000 shares of common stock were granted on December 16, 2005
to six non-employee, non-officer directors at an exercise price of $19.24. These options
vest one-third per year on the anniversary date of the grant and expire ten years from the
grant date.   

Previously, the Company maintained the 1993 Non-Qualified Stock Option
Plan for Non-Employee, Non-Consultant Directors (the  1993 Directors Plan ). A
total of 45,000 options were outstanding under the 1993 Directors Plan at December 31,
2005. No further options may be granted under the 1993 Directors Plan.   

The Company s 1993 Directors  Plan was adopted by the Board of
Directors and approved by the stockholders in March 1993. The 1993 Directors  Plan is
administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Under the 1993
Directors  Plan a nonqualified stock option to purchase 15,000 shares of common stock
was automatically granted to each non-employee, non-consultant director of the Company, in
a single grant at the time the director first joined the Board of Directors. The 1993
Directors  Plan authorized grants of options up to an aggregate of 150,000 shares of
common stock. The exercise price per share is the fair market value of the Company s
common stock on the date on which the option was granted (the  Grant Date ). The
options granted pursuant to the 1993 Directors  Plan vested at the rate of 1/3 of the
shares on the first anniversary of the director s Grant Date, 1/3 of the shares on
the second anniversary of the director s Grant Date, and 1/3 of the shares on the
third anniversary of the director s Grant Date, subject to certain holding periods
required under rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Options granted pursuant
to the 1993 Directors  Plan expire ten years from their Grant Date.   

Through September 16, 1998, options to purchase 4,408,501 shares under the
Company s 1993 Stock Option Plan for Executive Officers and Directors had been
granted, 22,500 of which expired due to failure to exercise and 22,500 of which were
exercised. Options to purchase 90,000 shares were granted under the Company s 1993
Nonqualified Stock Option Plan for Non-employee, Non-consultant Directors, 45,000 of which
expired due to failure to exercise and 15,000 of which were exercised.   

On September 16, 1998 the Company canceled all but 22,500 of the 4,393,501
options then outstanding under its 1993 Stock Option Plan for Executive Officers and
Directors and the Company s Nonqualified Stock Option Plan for Non-employee,
Non-consultant Directors and issued 4,371,001 new options in their place. The newly issued
options were granted with an exercise price equal to the closing market price of the
Company s stock as of September 16, 1998 (the  date of grant ). This
resulted in a new measurement date whereby the newly issued options vested six months from
date of grant and expire ten years from date of grant. All other terms and conditions of
the newly issued options were similar to the canceled options.   

In connection with the resignation of the Company s former President,
Raoul Witteveen, the Company entered into a separation agreement that allowed for Mr.
Witteveen s outstanding stock options, all of which were fully vested as of the date
of his resignation, to be exercisable until October 9, 2005, rather than ten business days
after the termination of his employment as required by the 1993 Stock Option Plan. This
modification resulted in the recognition of compensation expense in the fourth quarter of
2003 of $7,091 ($4,254 net of tax) and is included in administrative expenses in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. (See Note 1(B) in the Company s 2004
Form 10-K/A) Mr. Witteveen s future sale of common stock will be subject to certain
volume restrictions and a right of first refusal on the part of the Company and its
affiliates.   

On September 5, 2002, options to purchase 50,000 shares of the
Company s common stock were granted to the Company s former Chief Financial
Officer, Mitchell I. Gordon. The newly issued options were granted under the 1993 Stock
Option Plan for Executive Officers and Directors with an exercise price equal to the
closing market price of the Company s stock as of the grant date. The options were to
vest 20% per year beginning January 1, 2003 and expire ten years from the grant date. In
connection with the resignation of Mitchell I. Gordon, the Company entered into a
separation agreement that provided for the immediate vesting of the options. The
compensation cost recognized by the Company in July 2003, as a result of the immediate
vesting of these options was $496 ($298 net of tax) and is included in administrative
expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.   

As of December 31, 2005, there were 1,280,000 shares of common stock
reserved for issuance under both of the 2004 stock option plans. No options may be granted
under the 1993 Plans which expired in March 2003.   

Changes during 2005, 2004 and 2003 in options outstanding for the combined
plans were as follows:   

The following table summarizes information regarding stock
options outstanding at December 31, 2005.   

Options Outstanding                                   Options Exercisable
                          ----------------------------------                      ----------------------------
                                             Weighted Average
                             Number             Remaining                               Number
                           Outstanding         Contractual      Weighted Average     Exercisable     Weighted Average
   Exercise Prices        December 31,         Life (Years)      Exercise Price      December 31,     Exercise Price 
- --------------------     ----------------    ---------------    ----------------    --------------   -----------------
       $6.375                 15,000                4.2               $6.375              15,000           $6.375
       10.25               2,543,063                2.7               10.25            2,543,063           10.25
       11.9375               100,000                4.8               11.9375            100,000           11.9375
       13.73                  50,000                6.7               13.73               50,000           13.73
       18.77                 275,000                8.5               18.77              266,667           18.77
       19.24                  30,000                9.95              19.24                  ---           19.24
       20.38                  25,000                9.4               20.38                8,333           20.38
       21.05                  50,000                9.6               21.05                  ---           21.05
       22.05                  90,000                8.95              22.05               30,000           22.05
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    $6.375-$22.05          3,178,063                3.7              $11.75            3,013,063          $11.24

In connection with the Company s delayed SEC filings and the receipt
of waivers from its lenders necessitated by the delayed filings, beginning in January
2004, the members of the Company s Board of Directors and certain affiliates who own
shares of the Company s common stock agreed to defer their receipt of any dividend
payments, until the Company was in compliance with all SEC filing requirements. As of
December 27, 2004, the Company was no longer delinquent with regard to its SEC filings,
and the deferred dividends described above were paid prior to December 31, 2004.   

The Company declared a quarterly dividend of $0.0625 per share on its
common stock in March of 2005 and $0.075 per share in June and September of 2005. In
November a special cash dividend of $1.00 per share was paid. Also, in November 2005, the
Company announced an increase in its regular quarterly dividend to $0.08 per share. In
December 2005, the Company declared its regular dividend of $0.08 per share of common
stock and an additional special dividend of $0.12 per share bringing the total dividend to
$0.20 per share, payable in January 2006. Total dividends declared during 2005 were
$1.4125 per share.   

In 2004, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $0.0625 for each
quarter. Total dividends declared during 2004 were $0.25 per share.   

Common stock dividends declared and unpaid at December 31, 2005 and 2004
amounted to $5,700 and $1,741, respectively, and are included in accounts payable and
accrued expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.   

Deferred Bonus Plan   

In November 2002, the Company s Board of Directors approved a
Deferred Bonus Plan (the  Plan ) under which employees of the Company and its
affiliates who received discretionary year-end bonuses of greater than $50 received such
bonuses partly in cash and partly in the form of an award of Interpool common stock. Under
the Plan, the first $50 of a participant s bonus amount was paid in cash. Any amount
which exceeded $50 but was less than $150 was paid 50% in cash and 50% in stock. Any bonus
amount which exceeded $150 was paid 100% in stock. Bonus stock awards under this Plan
cliff vest in equal installments over a five-year period, unless the recipient elected to
have the award vest over a ten-year period or the Board of Directors specified another
period. The unvested portion of any bonus stock award will vest immediately if a change in
control of Interpool occurs, if the employee is terminated without cause, if the employee
resigns for a good reason, if the employee dies or becomes permanently disabled, or in any
other circumstance deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors. If a recipient resigns
voluntarily without a good reason or is terminated for cause the employee will forfeit any
unvested portion of any bonus stock award.   

The number of shares of stock awarded was calculated by dividing the
dollar value of the stock portion of the bonus by the average stock price for the last ten
trading days ending on December 31 of the grant year.   

Additional stock was awarded based on the vesting period selected by the
employee. If a five year vesting period was selected, the shares were increased by 10%. If
a ten year vesting period was selected the shares awarded were increased by 30%. Under the
Plan, each employee granted a bonus stock award has a right from time to time to require
the Company to purchase a total number of shares of stock equal to the number of shares of
stock underlying the Participant s Bonus Stock Award. The shares may be vested shares
or shares which were otherwise acquired by the participant providing that all shares were
beneficially owned by the participant for at least 6 months. The purchase price shall be
equal to the fair market value of a share of stock on the trading day preceding the date
of such purchase.   

On January 2, 2003, under this Plan, the Company granted to eligible
employees 139,067 shares of restricted stock that had a fair value of $16.83 per share at
the grant date. At the date of grant, $2,342 of deferred compensation was credited to
paid-in-capital with an offset to unamortized deferred compensation stock grant in
the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Compensation costs are recognized
ratably over the vesting periods during which the related employee service is rendered.
During the fourth quarter 2003, in accordance with the terms of the separation
agreement with the Company s previous President and Chief Operating Officer, 60,407
unvested shares with a value of $1,018 were forfeited. This forfeiture resulted in the
reversal of $1,018 of previously recorded unamortized deferred compensation, as well as
the reversal of previously recorded compensation expense of $102. For the year ended
December 31, 2003 compensation expense was $140 and 60,407 shares with a value of $1,018
lapsed. The unamortized deferred compensation remaining in stockholders equity was $1,184
at December 31, 2003.   

On January 2, 2004, under the Company s Deferred Bonus Plan, the
Company granted to eligible employees 27,259 shares of restricted stock that had a fair
value of $13.60 per share at the grant date. At the date of grant, $371 of deferred
compensation was credited to paid-in capital with an offset to unamortized deferred
compensation stock grant in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
During the first quarter of 2004, our Chief Executive Officer elected to voluntarily
relinquish his entire 2002 bonus. This resulted in the forfeiture of 60,407 unvested
shares of restricted stock valued at $1,017. This forfeiture resulted in the reversal of
$916 of previously recorded unamortized deferred compensation expense, as well as the
reversal of previously recorded compensation expense of $101. Excluding the reversal of
previously recorded compensation related to this forfeiture, compensation expense for the
year ended December 31, 2004 was $85. The unamortized deferred compensation remaining in
stockholders equity was $554 at December 31, 2004. In September 2004, the Board of
Directors terminated the Deferred Bonus Plan. All stock previously granted under this Plan
will continue to be subject to the terms of the Plan. However, future bonuses will not be
subject to the terms of the Deferred Bonus Plan.   

During 2005 compensation expense related to the Deferred Bonus Plan was
$112 which included $29 that resulted from the immediate vesting of shares due a retiring
employee. The unamortized deferred compensation remaining in stockholders  equity at
December 31, 2005 was $442.   

Stock Appreciation Rights   

On July 1, 2004, in connection with employment agreements with certain
executive officers, the Company granted common stock appreciation rights
( SARS ) that provide for the grantees to receive cash payments measured by any
appreciation in the market price of the common stock over a specified base price. The
Company granted such stock appreciation rights with respect to a total of 275,000 share
units at a base price of $14.05. The $14.05 base price reflected the price on the
over-the-counter market on February 20, 2004, the business day before the date on which
the terms of the stock appreciation rights were fixed. The grant of stock appreciation
rights was subsequently ratified by the Board of Directors on March 30, 2004, by which
time the closing price of the Company s common stock had increased to $15.00. At July
1, 2004, the date the employment agreements became effective, the most recent closing
stock price of the Company s common stock was $16.55. Under the terms of the
employment agreements, a total of 260,000 of these stock appreciation rights vested in
2005 with the remaining 15,000 rights vesting in three equal installments on December 31,
2006, 2007 and 2008. Any unvested stock appreciation rights will vest immediately upon a
change in control. Upon vesting, these stock appreciation rights may be exercisable at any
time prior to the expiration of the earlier of 10 days following the termination of the
employee or June 30, 2014.   

FASB Interpretation No. 28,  Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights
and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans , requires interim calculations of the
amount of compensation expense inherent in the SARS (variable plan accounting). This
amount is equal to the increase in the quoted market price since date of grant or award
multiplied by the total number of rights outstanding. Compensation expense is recognized
ratably over the vesting periods during which the related employee service is rendered. At
December 31, 2004, the quoted market price of the Company s common stock was $24.00.
Compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $2,120 and is included in
administrative expense on the Consolidated Statements of Income.   

On November 18, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
agreed to an arrangement with the holders of these SARS whereby all SARS granted to such
executive officers would be voluntarily cancelled. In connection with the cancellation of
these SARS, each of these executive officers was granted new stock options under the
Company s 2004 Stock Option Plan for Executive Officers and Directors for the same
number of shares as the cancelled SARS. The 275,000 stock options granted on November 18,
2005 have an exercise price of $18.77 per share (the closing price of the Company s
common stock on the date of grant) and similar terms to those of the cancelled SARS. At
December 31, 2005 266,666 of these options were vested with the remaining 8,334 scheduled
to vest on December 31, 2006. These options expire June 30, 2014. In addition, in
connection with the cancellation of the SARS, each of these executive officers became
entitled to receive from the Company a cash amount equal to the difference between the
$18.77 exercise price of the new stock options and the $14.05 exercise price of the
cancelled SARS, multiplied by the number of SARS (vested and unvested) previously held by
the executive officer. This resulted in a liability due to the executive officers of
$1,298 at November 18, 2005, the date the SARS were cancelled. At December 31, 2004, based
on a closing stock price of $24.00, the liability (and the associated compensation expense
for the year ended December 31, 2004) related to these SARS was $2,120. Since the price of
the Company s common stock declined to $18.77 on November 18, 2005, the outstanding
liability and associated compensation expense for 2005 was reduced by $822.   

Option Exercise and
Share Repurchases   

Share Repurchases   

In September 2005, Mr. Raoul Witteveen, former President of the Company,
advised the Company that he intended to exercise 500,000 stock options under the terms of
the 1993 Stock Option Plan. These options had an exercise price of $10.25 per share and
the market value at the date he exercised his options was $17.99 per share. In accordance
with the terms of the 1993 Stock Option Plan, Mr. Witteveen paid the aggregate exercise
price for these options by tendering to the Company a total of 284,880 shares of the
Company s common stock he then owned, which under the 1993 Stock Option Plan were
valued at their total fair market value based on the market price of the common stock at
the date of exercise. In addition, Mr. Witteveen reimbursed the Company in cash for the
tax withholding related to the exercise.   

The 284,880 shares delivered to the Company have been recorded as treasury
shares, at their market value at the date of exercise on the accompanying Consolidated
Balance Sheets. The exercise resulted in the issuance of 500,000 shares at a par value of
$0.001 and increased additional paid-in-capital by approximately $5,124. In addition,
since these options were granted to Mr. Witteveen as compensation for services rendered,
the Company is entitled to claim a tax deduction for non-employee compensation on its 2005
federal tax return. A tax benefit for the difference between the market price of the stock
as of the modification date and the exercise price was recorded in October 2003 at the
time the Company recognized compensation expense relating to a modification of the
options. The increase in the stock price from the modification date ($16.47 per share) to
the exercise date ($17.99 per share) resulted in an additional tax benefit (amounting to
$304) which has been recorded as additional paid-in-capital at the time these options were
exercised in 2005.   

In December 2004, Warren L. Serenbetz (a former member of the
Company s Board of Directors) advised the Company that he intended to exercise
668,438 stock options which represented the remaining options issued to him under the
terms of the 1993 Stock Option Plan. In addition, Mr. Serenbetz requested, and the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors allowed him, to exercise these options on
a cashless basis. While the cashless exercise of options is allowed under the terms of the
1993 Stock Option Plan with Board of Directors approval, it is not the intent of the
Company to allow this in most cases. The Board of Directors considered Mr.
Serenbetz s request in light of the limited period of time he had to exercise these
options having resigned as a Board member, and approved his request at a meeting held on
December 15, 2004. These options had an exercise price of $10.25 per share and the market
value at the date he exercised his options was $22.05 per share.   

In connection with the cashless exercise feature, the Company withheld
310,725 shares with a market value of $6,852 representing the cost to Mr. Serenbetz of
exercising these options. In addition, the Company withheld 110,086 shares with a market
value of $2,427 representing the amounts advanced to Mr. Serenbetz for the payment of his
minimum taxes related to the exercise. The remaining 247,627 shares were issued to Mr.
Serenbetz.   

The 420,811 shares withheld by the Company for the exercise price of the
options and Mr. Serenbetz s minimum taxes have been recorded as treasury shares, at
their market value at the date of exercise on the accompanying Consolidated Balance
Sheets. The exercise also resulted in the issuance of 668,438 shares at a par value of
$0.001 and increased additional paid-in-capital by $6,852. In addition, since these
options were granted to Mr. Serenbetz as compensation for services rendered, the Company
is entitled to claim a tax deduction for non-employee compensation on its 2004 federal tax
return. Since the Company did not recognize compensation expense on the grant or exercise
of these options, the tax benefit (amounting to $3,154) has been recorded in additional
paid-in-capital at the time these options were exercised.   

No shares were repurchased in 2003.   

Option Exercise   

On October 3, 2005, Mr. Raoul Witteveen, former President of the Company,
exercised his remaining 640,000 options under the terms of the 1993 Stock Option Plan.
These options had an exercise price of $10.25 per share and the shares had a market value
of $18.32 per share at the exercise date. In connection with the exercise, Mr. Witteveen
remitted $6,560 in cash to the Company for the exercise of the options and an additional
sum to pay for his estimated tax withholding. The exercise resulted in the issuance of
640,000 shares at a par value of $0.001 and increased additional paid-in-capital of
approximately $6,559. In addition, since these options were granted to Mr. Witteveen as
compensation for services rendered, the Company is entitled to claim a tax deduction for
non-employee compensation on its 2005 federal tax return. A tax benefit based on the
difference between the market price of the stock as of the modification date and the
exercise price was recorded in October 2003 at the time the Company recognized
compensation expense relating to a modification of the options. The increase in the stock
price from the modification date ($16.47 per share) to the exercise date ($18.32 per
share) resulted in an additional tax benefit (amounting to $473) which has been recorded
as additional paid in-capital during the fourth quarter of 2005.   

(15)  
  Gain on sale of equity investment:  

In September 2005, the Company received cash proceeds of approximately
$15,002 from the sale of a non-transportation company in which it held a minority equity
position since 1997. The Company accounted for this investment using the equity method of
accounting. The carrying value of its initial investment of $11,254 had been reduced to
$2,001 through the recording of equity losses and through the Company s recognition
of impairment losses on this investment. No tax benefits related to these losses had been
recorded by the Company since the realization of these benefits was not assured. The sale
of the Company s investment resulted in a pre-tax gain of $13,001 ($11,501 after tax)
and has been reflected as gain on the sale of equity investment in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Income. Additional funds that may become due to the Company
(subject to indemnity provisions and any contractual post-closing adjustments) totaling
approximately $2,300 (which are included in other receivables in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets) are being held in escrow by the buyers for a period of up to
18 months.   

(16)  
  Settled insurance litigation:  

In connection with an insurance claim related to the default of a South
Korean customer and a subsequent lawsuit filed by the insurance carriers against the
Company, on June 17, 2004 the Company signed an agreement settling the lawsuit and its
claims under the policy. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, the insurance
carriers paid the Company a total of $26,400 during 2004. In addition, the Company
received the right to retain any of the equipment it had recovered since the date of the
claim. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain of $6,267 related to the $26,400 settlement,
which is recorded in gain on insurance settlement on the Consolidated Statements of
Income.   

(17)  
  Fair value of financial instruments:  

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107,  Disclosures about
Fair Value of Financial Instruments  ( SFAS 107 ) requires disclosure of the
estimated fair value of the Company s financial instruments, excluding leasing
transactions accounted for under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13,
 Accounting for Leases  ( SFAS 13 ). The fair value of a financial
instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties, other than a forced or liquidation sale. Estimated
fair values have been determined using the best available data and estimation methodology
suitable for each category of financial instrument. The estimation methodologies used to
estimate the fair values and recorded book balances of the Company s financial
instruments at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:   

Cash and cash equivalents   

For such short-term investments, the carrying value is considered to be a
reasonable estimate of fair value.   

Accounts receivable   

The carrying value of accounts receivable is considered to be a reasonable
estimate of fair value based on their short-term nature.   

Accounts payable and accrued expenses   

The carrying value of accounts payable and accrued expenses is considered
to be a reasonable estimate of fair value based on their short-term nature.   

Interest rate swaps   

Interest rate swap contracts are included in accounts payable and accrued expenses
on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The estimated fair value (which is also the recorded
book value) is calculated externally using market data taking into account current market
rates.   

Warrant liability   

The warrants issued by the Company during September 2004, were classified
as a liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005. The estimated
fair value of this liability (which is also the recorded book value) is calculated
quarterly using external market data. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.   

Debt and capital securities   

The fair value of the Company s debt and capital securities was based
on quoted market prices where available. For those borrowings with floating interest
rates, it is presumed their estimated fair value generally approximates their carrying
value. The fixed-rate debt instruments, where quoted market prices were not available,
were valued using a present value discounted cash flow analysis with a discount rate
approximating current market rates of similar term debt at the end of the year. The
discount rates used in the present value calculations ranged from 6.58% to 6.59% at
December 31, 2005 and 5.20% to 5.86% at December 31, 2004.   

Notes and Warrants   

On January 30, 2006, the Company, the holders of a majority in principal
amount of the Notes and the holders of a majority of the Warrants entered into amendments
to certain existing agreements which had the effect of extending from February 1, 2006 to
April 1, 2006 the date on which liquidated damages would have become payable with respect
to the Notes and/or the Warrants if they were not registered with the SEC. As a result of
these amendments, the Company was obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to have
these registration statements declared effective by the SEC by March 6, 2006. On February
21, 2006, the registration statement for the Warrants was declared effective by the SEC.
The registration statement for the 6% Notes was declared effective on February 27, 2006.   

Classification of
Warrants   

On February 21, 2006, the registration statement for the Warrants was
declared effective by the SEC, satisfying the final condition required under EITF 00-19
for classification of the Warrants as equity (as opposed to liabilities) on the
Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. A final valuation of the Warrants as of
February 21, 2006 has been obtained from an independent third party. The fair value was
determined to be $58,440 as compared with a fair value of $53,231 as of December 31, 2005.
The increase in value of $5,209 (net of tax) was primarily related to an increase in the
market price of the Company s common stock during 2006, and will be reflected in the
Consolidated Statements of Income for the period ending March 31, 2006.   

CAI   

As discussed in Note 11 above, during the third quarter of 2005, an
investment banking firm was engaged by CAI s board of directors to conduct a
valuation of CAI s equity and the valuation was completed during the fourth quarter
of 2005. The Company advised Mr. Ogawa, CAI s Chief Executive Officer and the holder
of the 50% common equity interest in CAI not owned by the Company, that, after review of
this valuation, the Company had decided not to exercise its right under the Shareholder
Agreement between the Company and Mr. Ogawa to make an offer to acquire his 50% common
equity interest in CAI for an amount equal to his percentage interest of the fair value of
CAI as determined by the investment banking firm. Pursuant to the Shareholder Agreement,
Mr. Ogawa has requested that CAI proceed with the steps necessary to register his equity
interest in CAI for sale by him in an initial public offering. In response to Mr.
Ogawa s request, CAI engaged an investment banking firm in 2006 to manage an initial
public offering. CAI and its investment bankers, together with their advisors, have
commenced preparation of an S-1 registration statement for filing with the SEC sometime
during 2006. In the event that CAI s initial public offering is consummated, CAI
would become a public company. In connection with CAI s anticipated public offering,
the Company expects to consider potential changes to the terms of the existing agreements
between the Company and CAI and to the terms of the Shareholder Agreement between the
Company and Mr. Ogawa. To date, however, no agreement has been reached regarding any such
changes. In addition, the Company is currently evaluating the impact of CAI s initial
public offering on its current 50% common equity position in CAI. CAI s ability to
complete a public offering will depend upon a number of factors, including market
conditions, industry conditions and developments in CAI s business. Accordingly,
there is no assurance that CAI s public offering will be completed within the
anticipated time frame or at all.   

CAI s management has advised the Company that CAI may wish to repay
the remaining balance of the subordinated note issued by CAI and held by the Company
($16,825 at December 31, 2005) during 2006. CAI has obtained the consent of the lenders
under its new secured revolving credit facility to make such repayment. Under the terms of
the amended Shareholder Agreement between the Company and Mr. Ogawa, this repayment would
result in CAI s board of directors being comprised of an equal number of directors
appointed by the Company and by Mr. Ogawa. Any such change in the composition of
CAI s board of directors would require that the Company no longer consolidate CAI in
the Company s financial statements from and after the date of such change. Instead,
the Company would record its investment in CAI under the equity method of accounting. The
Company had preliminary discussions with Mr. Ogawa about potential modifications to the
Shareholder Agreement that would preserve the Company s majority position on
CAI s board of directors for some period of time after a repayment of the
subordinated note. To date, no agreement has been reached on any such modifications, nor
has CAI made a firm decision to repay the subordinated note prior to its final maturity in
April 2008.   

March 2006 Sale of
Containers   

On March 29, 2006, the Company s wholly owned container leasing
subsidiary, ICL, completed the sale of approximately 273,200 standard dry marine cargo
containers, together with an assignment of all rights of ICL under existing leases for
these containers with the Company s customers, to a newly formed subsidiary of an
investor group based in Switzerland (the  Purchaser ), pursuant to a Sale
Agreement dated March 14, 2006 (the  Sale Agreement ). Although the sale was
completed on March 29, 2006, the Sale Agreement stipulates that the Purchaser
will be entitled to the net operating income attributable to the containers sold to the
Purchaser from and after April 1, 2006. The aggregate cash purchase price paid
by the Purchaser was approximately $515,869. The containers sold represent approximately
74% of the standard dry marine cargo containers in the Company s operating lease
fleet at December 31, 2005, including most of the containers managed for the Company by
its 50% subsidiary CAI. The sale did not include containers subject to existing direct
financing leases with customers.   

In connection with the Sale Agreement, both the Company and CAI entered
into management agreements with the Purchaser (the  Management Agreements )
under which CAI agreed to perform management services on behalf of the Purchaser with
respect to the containers sold, including billing, collecting, lease renewal, operations
and disposition activities, in consideration of a management fee equal to 4% of the net
operating income attributable to containers under long-term operating leases, and 9% of
the net operating income attributable to containers under short-term operating leases. The
Management Agreements designate ICL to serve as sub-manager of the containers currently
under long-term lease for such period of time as the Company may elect, up to the
respective dates when the containers are returned by their current lessees. During that
period, ICL will be entitled to receive the management fees described above. The duration
of the Management Agreements will be ten years from the closing date, subject to extension
for up to two additional years at the Purchaser s option. The Company s existing
agreements with CAI are being modified to reflect these new arrangements.   

The Company intends to continue to make container acquisitions in the
future and will continue to be engaged in the business of leasing containers and related
equipment to its customers under both operating and direct financing leases. Neither the
Sale Agreement nor the Management Agreements restricts the Company from engaging in any
business in the future or from acquiring containers for lease to customers.   

The Sale Agreement does not contain any provision that would require the
Company to repurchase the containers from the Purchaser based upon the occurrence of
future events.   

The Company will use the proceeds from the sale of the containers to
reduce indebtedness, for equipment acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes.   

In light of the transaction s closing, the Company expects
to report a gain on the sale of the containers to the Purchaser during the
quarter ending March 31, 2006 subject to closing adjustments and final
accounting review. Effective April 1, 2006, the Company will no longer
record leasing revenue relating to the containers sold to the Purchaser, but the
Company or CAI will instead record management fee revenue relating to the sold
containers under the Management Agreement.   

First Quarter 2006
Impairment Charge   

Beginning in late 2005 and continuing into the first quarter of 2006, one of
the Company s larger shipping line customers began returning a significant number of
containers under leases entered into during 1999 and 2000 that had expired. Based upon an
analysis of the quantity of containers involved, then-existing conditions in the
short-term leasing market and related expenses associated with major equipment returns,
the Company entered into negotiations with this customer regarding the parties 
on-going and future business relationships. Following extensive discussions, the Company
reached an agreement with the customer whereby the leases for these
containers would be converted to direct financing leases by extending the lease terms,
with the lessee obtaining ownership at expiration. As a result of this modification to the
lease terms, the Company concluded on March 29, 2006 that it would be necessary under U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles to record a charge for impairment for these assets. The
amount of this impairment charge, which will be recorded in the first quarter of 2006, is
expected to be approximately $6,545. No portion of this impairment charge will result in
any cash expenditures by the Company. To the extent that this agreement is extended to
cover additional containers, by mutual agreement of the parties, the Company may incur an
additional impairment charge in the future.   

(19)  
 Quarterly financial data (unaudited) 

(a) 
 
Quarterly net income/(loss) during 2005 has been materially affected by the
change in fair value of warrants issued by us in connection with a Securities
Purchase Agreement pursuant to which the Company sold $150,000 of 6% notes due
in 2014. The amounts are as follows: 

(b) 
 
Net income during the third quarter of 2005 includes a gain related to the sale
of an equity investment of $11,501 (net of tax). 

(c) 
 
Net (loss) during the fourth quarter of 2005 includes repatriation expenses of
$23,061 which includes tax expense of $19,979. See Note 5 to the Consolidated
Financial Statement for further discussion. 

(d) 
 
The net (loss) during the fourth quarter of 2004 was primarily due to a non-cash
expense of $49,222 resulting from the change in fair value of warrants issued by
us in connection with a Securities Purchase Agreement pursuant to which the
Company sold $150,000 of 6.0% notes due in 2014. 

ITEM 9.  
 
 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE  

None.  

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES   

(a)
Management s Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls
and Procedures   

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed
to ensure that information required to be disclosed in its reports filed or submitted
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ( Exchange Act ), is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms, and that information required
to be disclosed by the Company in its Exchange Act reports is accumulated and communicated
to management, including the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   

Under the supervision and with the participation of its management, including
the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the
Company carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to
Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) as of December 31, 2005.  Based
upon that evaluation, the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and
procedures were not effective as of such date due to the material weaknesses
described below in Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting (Item 9A(b)).    

In light of these material weaknesses, in preparing its consolidated financial
statements as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, the Company
performed additional analyses and other post-closing procedures to ensure that
the Company s consolidated financial statements included in its Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 have been
prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

(b) Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

The Company s management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is identified
in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). The Company s internal control system is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Company s management, Board of
Directors and shareholders regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation and fair presentation of financial statements for external reporting purposes
in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.   

The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes
policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and disposition of assets; provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with the authorization of
its management and directors; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s
assets that could have a material effect on its financial statements.   

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the
risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. In making this assessment, the
Company used the control criteria framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
( COSO ) of the Treadway Commission published in its report entitled Internal
Control-Integrated Framework. As a result of its assessment, management identified
material weaknesses in the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Based
on the material weaknesses identified as described below, management concluded that the
Company s internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December
31, 2005.   

A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control
deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement
of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As a
result of its assessment, the Company has identified the following material weaknesses in
its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005:   

Technical accounting expertise.  The Company and its
50%-owned consolidated subsidiary were not adequately staffed with accounting personnel
possessing an appropriate level of technical expertise in U.S generally accepted
accounting principles, as further described below: 

Interest rate swap transactions.  The Company did not have
personnel possessing sufficient technical expertise related to accounting for
derivative instruments and hedging activities in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. As a result, the interest rate swap transactions
entered into during the quarter ended March 31, 2005 did not qualify for hedge
accounting as intended and a misstatement was identified in the fair value
adjustment for derivative instruments in the Company s consolidated
statement of income for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. This error was
detected and corrected prior to the issuance of the Company s March 31,
2005 consolidated financial statements. This deficiency results in more than a
remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the Company s annual or
interim consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or
detected. 

Accounting for debt modification.  The Company did not have
personnel possessing sufficient technical expertise related to the accounting
for the modification of revolving debt facilities in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. During December 2005, in connection with the
repatriation of earnings and profits previously held offshore, the Company
repaid certain revolving debt facilities and replaced them with new, larger
facilities with the same lenders. The Company s treatment of the deferred
financing fees related to these refinancings was not in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. As a result, material misstatements were
identified in the loss on impairment of debt in the Company s 2005
consolidated statement of income and other assets in the Company s 2005
consolidated balance sheet. This error was detected and corrected prior to the
issuance of the Company s 2005 consolidated financial statements. This
deficiency results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement
of the Company s annual or interim consolidated financial statements would
not be prevented or detected. 

Accounting for stock compensation.  The Company s 50%-owned
consolidated subsidiary, Container Applications International, Inc.
( CAI ), did not have personnel possessing sufficient technical
expertise related to the accounting for redeemable convertible preferred stock
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Specifically, CAI
had not performed valuations of the preferred stock that was acquired by two
employees under that subsidiary s Executive Management Incentive Program
and, thus, had not reflected any change in the value of the preferred shares in
its consolidated financial statements. As a result, a material misstatement was
identified in compensation expense in the Company s 2005 consolidated
financial statements. This error was detected and corrected prior to the
issuance of the Company s 2005 consolidated financial statements. This
deficiency results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement
of the Company s annual or interim consolidated financial statements would
not be prevented or detected. 

Review of subsidiary financial statements.   The Company did
not have adequate policies and procedures in place to provide for the review of
the financial statements of its 50%-owned consolidated subsidiary, CAI, at a
sufficient level of detail. This deficiency resulted in more than a remote
likelihood that a material misstatement of the Company s annual or interim
consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or detected. 

Security of information technology.   The Company s
information systems lacked security policies and procedures, including
appropriate encryption and standard security settings. Additionally, the Company
did not have system access controls over access to its equipment leasing system
and certain spreadsheets supporting financial information. These deficiencies
resulted in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the
Company s annual or interim consolidated financial statements would not be
prevented or detected. 

Monitoring of internal control over financial reporting.   The
Company lacked adequate procedures related to the monitoring of its internal
control over financial reporting, including procedures related to the timely
evaluation of internal controls to ensure that appropriate personnel regularly
obtain evidence that controls are functioning effectively. This deficiency
resulted in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the
Company's annual or interim consolidated financial statements would not be
prevented or detected.

The independent registered public accounting firm that audited the
Company s consolidated financial statements has issued an audit report on
management s assessment of, and the effectiveness of, the Company s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. Their report appears in Item
9A(c).   

(c) Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

The Board of Directors 
Interpool, Inc.:  

We have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying
Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting (Item 9A(b)) that
Interpool, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) did not maintain effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, because of the effect of material
weaknesses identified in management s assessment, based on criteria established in
Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO"). The Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for
its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on
the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on
our audit.   

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal
control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for
our opinion.   

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control
deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material
misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not
be prevented or detected. Management has identified, and included in its
assessment, the following material weaknesses in its internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005:   

Technical accounting expertise.   The Company and its 50%-owned
consolidated subsidiary were not adequately staffed with accounting personnel
possessing an appropriate level of technical expertise in U.S generally accepted
accounting principles, as further described below: 

Interest rate swap transactions.  The Company did not have
personnel possessing sufficient technical expertise related to accounting for
derivative instruments and hedging activities in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. As a result, the interest rate swap transactions
entered into during the quarter ended March 31, 2005 did not qualify for hedge
accounting as intended and a misstatement was identified in the fair value
adjustment for derivative instruments in the Company s consolidated
statement of income for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. This deficiency
results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the
Company s annual or interim consolidated financial statements would not be
prevented or detected. 

Accounting for debt modification.  The Company did not have
personnel possessing sufficient technical expertise related to the accounting
for the modification of revolving debt facilities in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. During December 2005, in connection with the
repatriation of earnings and profits previously held offshore, the Company
repaid certain revolving debt facilities and replaced them with new, larger
facilities with the same lenders. The Company s treatment of the deferred
financing fees related to these refinancings was not in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. As a result, material misstatements
were identified in the loss on impairment of debt in the Company s 2005
consolidated statement of income and other assets in the Company s 2005
consolidated balance sheet. This deficiency results in more than a remote
likelihood that a material misstatement of the Company s annual or interim
consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or detected. 

Accounting for stock compensation.  The Company s 50%-owned
consolidated subsidiary, Container Applications International, Inc.
( CAI ), did not have personnel possessing sufficient technical
expertise related to the accounting for redeemable convertible preferred stock
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Specifically, CAI
had not performed valuations of the preferred stock that was acquired by two
employees under that subsidiary s Executive Management Incentive Program
and, thus, had not reflected any change in the value of the preferred shares in
its consolidated financial statements. As a result, a material misstatement was
identified in compensation expense in the Company s 2005 consolidated
financial statements. This deficiency results in more than a remote likelihood
that a material misstatement of the Company s annual or interim
consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or detected. 

Review of subsidiary financial statements.   The Company did not
have adequate policies and procedures in place to provide for the review of the
financial statements of its 50%-owned consolidated subsidiary, CAI, at a
sufficient level of detail. This deficiency resulted in more than a remote
likelihood that a material misstatement of the Company s annual or interim
consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or detected. 

Security of information technology.   The Company s information
systems lacked security policies and procedures, including appropriate
encryption and standard security settings. Additionally, the Company did not
have system access controls over access to its equipment leasing system and
certain spreadsheets supporting financial information. These deficiencies
resulted in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the
Company s annual or interim consolidated financial statements would not be
prevented or detected. 

Monitoring of internal control over financial
reporting .  The Company lacked adequate procedures related to the
monitoring of its internal control over financial reporting, including
procedures related to the timely evaluation of internal controls to ensure that
appropriate personnel regularly obtain evidence that controls are functioning
effectively. This deficiency resulted in more than a remote likelihood that a
material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim consolidated financial
statements would not be prevented or detected. 

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of
Interpool Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related
consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders  equity and cash flows for
each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2005. The aforementioned
material weaknesses were considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit
tests applied in our audit of the 2005 consolidated financial statements, and this report
does not affect our report dated March 31, 2006, which expressed an unqualified
opinion on those consolidated financial statements.   

In
our opinion, management s assessment that the Company did not maintain
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is
fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in
 Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO"). Also, in our
opinion, because of the effect of the material weaknesses described above on the
achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, the Company has not
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission ("COSO").   

(signed) KPMG LLP Short Hills, NJ 
March 31, 2006  

(d) Changes to Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting   

There were no changes in the Company s internal control over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Exchange Act, during the three months ended December 31, 2005 that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal
control over financial reporting, except as described below.   

The Company has taken, or plans to take, various corrective actions to
remediate the material weaknesses noted in Management s Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting (Item 9A(b)). By their nature, such actions require a period of
time to become fully effective. The remedial actions associated with these material
weaknesses are as follows:   

Technical accounting expertise.  During 2004 the Company added seven
positions to its accounting department, and during 2005 five more positions were
added. At December 31, 2005, three of these positions were open due to employee
turnover. In addition, staffing was augmented in other areas such as Taxes,
Internal Audit, and Financial Planning   Analysis, with six employees added
in those areas as of the date of this report. Of the employees added, five are
Certified Public Accountants, three have MBA degrees, one has significant
experience with SEC reporting, and two have significant experience with interest
rate swaps. In addition, another individual in the accounting department passed
all portions of the CPA exam during 2005. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company
has assigned responsibility for its interest rate swap transactions to the two
individuals with significant prior experience in this area. During 2006, the
Company will continue to review its staffing levels, as will CAI, and will
continue to evaluate whether the skill sets of its employees are adequate to
meet its financial reporting needs and to ensure that it has a strong and
effective control environment. The Company and CAI will monitor this area
closely, make any necessary staffing changes, and will also ensure that
additional training is made available to their staffs as required. 

Review of subsidiary financial statements.  The Company will dedicate
additional resources to reviewing and analyzing the financial statements of its
50%-owned consolidated subsidiary, CAI, before those statements are included in
the Company s own consolidated financial statements each quarter. 

Security of information technology.  The Company completed the
documentation of standards for setting security parameters for its operating
systems during 2005. In addition, the lack of encryption procedures for the
Company s three main offices (Princeton, NJ, New York, NY, and Westchester,
IL) was remediated during 2005 by implementing direct point-to-point network
connections to the Company s data center. For employees located outside
those three offices, remediation will take place during 2006 by implementing
both virtual private network and secure socket layer technologies. The Company
also initiated a project during 2005 with regard to defining and establishing
appropriate access to its  critical  spreadsheets. All
 critical  spreadsheets were identified, and a secure server for
storing them was installed during 2005. The final evaluation and migration of
spreadsheets to the controlled environment will take place during 2006. Access
controls for the Company s information systems were evaluated during the
last half of 2005, and interim changes required are currently being addressed
with further access controls to be implemented as the Company develops its new
asset management system currently in process. 

Monitoring of internal control over financial reporting.   Prior to
submitting this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management completed additional
procedures that confirmed its determination that no material weaknesses existed
in the Company's internal control over financial reporting other than those
described in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
The Company intends to implement additional procedures during 2006 that will
facilitate the monitoring of internal controls over financial reporting
throughout the year, and will review the results of these additional procedures
with its audit committee and independent public accounting firm periodically
during the year.

Management believes that the actions described above, when fully implemented and
tested, will be effective in remediation of the material weaknesses identified
in Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting (Item
9A(b)).   

The Company has assigned the highest priority to the short and long-term
correction of the internal control deficiencies that have been identified and has
initiated the steps necessary to analyze and monitor its control environment and to
address any weaknesses and deficiencies. In addition to the weakness mentioned above, the
Company has identified other, less significant, deficiencies that it does not consider to
be  material weaknesses  but which it nonetheless believes should be remedied.
These significant deficiencies have been disclosed to the Company s Audit Committee
and to its independent auditors. Management has discussed its remedial action plans with
the Audit Committee and will continue to provide periodic updates to the Audit Committee
on progress made.   

(e)     
          Limitations of Effectiveness of Controls    

As of the date of this filing, the Company is satisfied that actions
implemented to date (including augmenting its internal audit function) and those in
progress will remediate the material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in the
internal controls and information systems that have been identified. The Company notes
that, like other companies, any system of internal controls, however well designed and
operated, can provide only reasonable assurance, and not absolute assurance, that the
objectives of the internal control system will be met. The design of any control system is
based, in part, upon the benefits of the control system relative to its costs. Because of
the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide
absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the
Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that
judgments in decision making can be faulty, and that controls can be circumvented by the
individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by management
override of control. In addition, over time, controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain
assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of the limitations inherent in
a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not
be detected.   

ITEM 9B. OTHER
INFORMATION   

None.  

PART III   

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   

Our current directors and executive officers are as follows:   

NAME   
   
   AGE    
    POSITION    

Martin Tuchman  
                
Arthur L. Burns (a) 
Peter D. Halstead (a)(b)(c) 
Clifton H.W. Maloney (a)(b)(d)(f) 
Michael S. Mathews (d)(e)        
Warren L. Serenbetz, Jr. (d)(g)  
William J. Shea (g)              
Joseph J. Whalen (a)(b)(d)(f)    
James F. Walsh                   
Richard W. Gross                 
                                 
Herbert Mertz                    
                                 
Brian Tracey                     
Christopher N. Fermanis          
                                 
William Geoghan                  
Allen M. Olinger                 
Hiro Ogawa

65    
      
61    
63    
68    
65    
53    
51    
74    
56    
60    
      
52    
      
57    
57    
      
55    
52    
65

Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive 
Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer 
General Counsel, Executive Vice President and Director 
Director 
Director 
Director 
Director 
Director 
Director 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of 
Interpool Containers Limited 
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of 
Trac Lease 
Senior Vice President (Chief Accounting Officer) 
Senior Vice President-Law, General Counsel Interpool 
Containers Limited and Trac Lease 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President - Finance 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of 
Container Applications International, Inc. 

__________________________________ 
(a) member of the Corporate Governance Committee in 2004 
(b) member of the Audit Committee in 2004 and 2005 
(c) member of the Compensation Committee in 2004 and 2005 
(d) member of Corporate Governance Committee in 2005 
(e) member of the Audit  Committee in 2005 
(f) member of the Compensation Committee in 2004 
(g) member of Compensation Committee in 2005 

Martin Tuchman  has served as our Chairman of the Board of Directors
and Chief Executive Officer of Interpool, Inc. since February 1988 and as President and
Chief Operating Officer since October 2003. He is also Chairman of the Board of Directors,
Chief Executive Officer and a director of Interpool Limited, which he co-founded in 1968.
He also has served as a director of Trac Lease since June 1987 through January 1994 and
currently serves as its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Tuchman is Chairman
of the Board of Directors of Princeton International Properties, Inc., a family-owned real
estate company, which owns and has interests in properties located in Princeton, New
Jersey. Mr. Tuchman was previously a member of the Society of Automotive Engineers as
well as the American National Standards Institute. Currently, Mr. Tuchman is a member
of the United Nations Business Council, comprised of leading international executives
organized to promote understanding and cooperation between business and government. He was
formerly a member of the Board of Trustees of the New Jersey Institute of Technology and
currently, a member of the NJIT Board of Overseers. He is also a member of the Board of
Directors of Stevens Institute of Technology s Web Campus. In 1995, Mr. Tuchman
was honored as Entrepreneur Of The Year in an awards program sponsored by Ernst  
Young LLP and in 1996 was named Alumnus of the Year by the New Jersey Institute of
Technology. Mr. Tuchman is a member of the Board of Trustees of The Parkinson s
Alliance and serves on the Board of Directors of the Parkinson s Disease Foundation
of Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York. As Chairman of The Tuchman Foundation, he
works closely with all Parkinsons organizations whose scientists select grants seeking
National Institute of Health s (NIH) approval. In 2000, Mr. Tuchman was honored
by The Smithsonian Institution for his extensive case study of Interpool for the 2000
Computerworld Smithsonian Collection and Interpool was nominated for the World Smithsonian
Award. Interpool s material is now part of the Permanent Research Collection on
Information Technology at The Smithsonian s National Museum of American History.
Mr. Tuchman is a member of the Yardville National Bancorp s Board of Directors
and serves on its Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. In addition,
Mr. Tuchman is Treasurer and serves on the Board of Trustees and the Finance
Committee of TASK, the Trenton Area Soup Kitchen. Mr. Tuchman holds a bachelor s
degree in mechanical engineering from the New Jersey Institute of Technology (Newark
College of Engineering) and a master s degree in business administration from Seton
Hall University.   

Arthur L. Burns  has served as a director since January 1990. He was
our General Counsel and Secretary from January 1990 until 1996 and continued to serve as
non-employee General Counsel until February 2003. Mr. Burns rejoined the Company as
General Counsel and Executive Vice President in October 2003. Mr. Burns was Senior
Vice President of Law and Administration of Interpool Limited from 1980 until June 1996.
Prior to joining Interpool Limited, Mr. Burns served as Assistant General Counsel to
GATX Leasing Corp. between 1975 and 1980, and as an associate attorney at the law firm of
Cahill, Gordon   Reindel from 1969 to 1975. Mr. Burns holds a bachelor s
degree in economics from Holy Cross College and a law degree from Fordham University
School of Law.   

Peter D. Halstead  has served as a member of our Board of Directors
since June 1994. Mr. Halstead is a retired Executive Vice President of Summit Bancorp
where he worked in various capacities since 1971. He is now the Principal of P.D. Halstead
Associates LLC, a firm consulting in corporate administration and finance.
Mr. Halstead is a Director of MetLife Bank N.A., a wholly owned subsidiary of
MetLife, and is a Senior Vice President/Managing Director of Commerce Bank, N.A.
Mr. Halstead has served as a Trustee for numerous associations including McCarter
Theatre and as Treasurer of the National Kidney Foundation of the Delaware Valley.
Mr. Halstead holds a bachelor s degree from Colgate University and an MBA degree
from Fairleigh Dickinson University.   

Clifton H. W. Maloney  has served as a member of our Board of
Directors since February 2000. He has been President of C.H.W. Maloney   Co.,
Incorporated, a private investment firm, since 1981. He was a Vice President in investment
banking at Goldman, Sachs   Co. from 1974 to 1981. Mr. Maloney is a Director of
Chromium Industries, Inc., Vicon Industries, Inc. and The Wall Street Fund.
Mr. Maloney holds a bachelor s degree in Engineering from Princeton University
and an MBA degree from Harvard Business School.   

Michael S. Mathews  has served as a member of our Board of Directors
since November 2004. He is currently the managing director of Westgate Capital Co., a firm
he founded in 1993. Mr. Mathews served on the Board of Petroleum Geo-Services from 1993
until September 2002. From 1998 to 2002, he served as Vice Chairman of Petroleum
Geo-Services and held the position as Chairman of the Compensation Committee and was a
member of the Audit Committee. He is currently a director of Particle Drilling
Technologies, Inc. and of Applix. From 1989 to 1992, Mr. Mathews served as managing
director of Bradford Ventures Ltd., a private investment firm involved in equity
investments, including acquisitions. Mr. Mathews received an A.B. from Princeton
University and received a J.D. from the University of Michigan Law School.   

Warren L. Serenbetz, Jr.  has served as a member of our Board of
Directors since December 2004. He is currently President and Chief Executive Officer of
Radcliff Group, Inc., an investment management company. From 1992 through 2003,
Mr. Serenbetz was Vice-President of Marketing at Pechiney Plastic Packaging, Inc., a
multinational consumer packaging business with facilities in North America, Europe, Latin
America and Asia. From 1986 to 1992, he was Managing Director   Marketing, of
American Can Company. Mr. Serenbetz holds a Bachelor of Science degree in engineering
from Lehigh University and an MBA Finance from the Wharton School at the University
of Pennsylvania.   

William J. Shea, Jr.  has served as a member of our Board of
Directors since November 2004. He is president and co-founder of Kelley Transportation
Services, Inc, a transportation equipment manufacturing and leasing business headquartered
in San Francisco. From 1987-2004, he served as president of Bay Cities Leasing LLC, an
operating leasing company specializing in domestic containers, chassis and intermodal
trailers. In 1994, Mr. Shea was named program manager of the EMP Program   a national
pool of 30,000 domestic containers and chassis operating on Union Pacific, Norfolk
Southern, CP Rail, CN and other Class 1 rail systems. To facilitate EMP Program expansion,
Bay Cities Leasing formed a joint venture with Union Pacific, called Bay Pacific
Financial, to provide $400 million of capital to the program. Mr. Shea served as
co-chairman of Bay Pacific Financial from 1994-2004, when he and his partner completed the
sale of Bay Cities Leasing to Transport International Pool, a unit of GE Capital Services.
He received a B.S. in Economics from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.   

Joseph J. Whalen  has served as a member of our Board of Directors
since April 1996. He originally joined the accounting firm of Arthur Andersen LLP in 1957
and served as an audit partner in Andersen s New York and New Jersey offices for more
than ten years prior to his retirement in 1994. Mr. Whalen is a member of the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the New Jersey State Society of
Certified Public Accountants. Mr. Whalen also serves on the Board of Directors of
Griffon Corporation. Mr. Whalen is a Certified Public Accountant in New Jersey and
holds a bachelor s degree from St. Peter s College. The Board of Directors has
determined that Mr. Whalen, a member of our Audit Committee, qualifies as an
 audit committee financial expert,  as such term is defined in the rules of the
Securities and Exchange Commission.   

James F. Walsh  was appointed to serve as our Executive Vice
President, Finance in December 2003 and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer in February 2004. In 1998 Mr. Walsh joined C-S Aviation Services, an aircraft
operating lease company, as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and also
served as President from 2000 to 2003. From 1987 to 1993 Mr. Walsh served as Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Polaris Aircraft Leasing Corporation, a GE
Capital company, and, following the incorporation of Polaris into GE Capital Aviation
Services (GECAS) in 1993, Mr. Walsh was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of GECAS. Prior to joining Polaris, Mr. Walsh held various financial positions
during sixteen years with GE Capital and General Electric Company. Mr. Walsh holds a
Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from Rutgers College and a Master s Degree in
Business Administration from the University of Bridgeport.   

Richard W. Gross  served as Acting Chief Financial Officer from July
2003 to February 2004 and was appointed Executive Vice President in December 2003.
Mr. Gross currently serves as Executive Vice President of the Company and Director
and Chief Operating Officer of Interpool Limited. Mr. Gross rejoined us in 2002 as
Senior Vice President of Finance after serving as Vice President of Finance and Chief
Financial Officer of Balboa Capital Corporation from 1998 to 2001. Previously
Mr. Gross had been with us for more than twenty years in various senior financial
positions, having responsibility for investor and lender relations. Prior to first joining
Interpool in 1972, Mr. Gross spent five years with Arthur Andersen and Co. in their
New York office. Mr. Gross is a certified public accountant and received a Bachelor
of Science degree in Accounting from Long Island University.   

Herbert Mertz  served as our Director of Information Systems from
December 1988 to September 2000. In September 2000, he was appointed Executive Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer of Trac Lease. Prior to joining us, Mr. Mertz
was an independent consultant in the computer industry. From 1980 to 1983, Mr. Mertz
was President of Princeton Energy Partners, an international franchise company in the
field of energy conservation. Mr. Mertz holds a bachelor s degree in engineering
from Princeton University. He is an associate member of Sigma Xi, the North American
Research Society.   

Brian Tracey  has served as Senior Vice President of Interpool, Inc.
since October 2000 and was appointed Chief Accounting Officer during 2003. Mr. Tracey
joined Interpool when Interpool acquired the assets of the North America Intermodal
Division of Transamerica Leasing, Inc. (Transamerica). Prior to joining Interpool,
Mr. Tracey was Senior Vice President of Finance and Business Development at
Transamerica where he had held numerous financial positions after joining Transamerica in
1982. From 1970 to 1982, Mr. Tracey worked in the audit practice of Arthur Andersen
  Co. Mr. Tracey is a Certified Public Accountant and holds an undergraduate
degree in accounting from Pace College.   

Christopher N. Fermanis  has been with the Company since 1981. He
holds the positions of Senior Vice President   Law of Interpool, Inc. and General
Counsel of Interpool Limited and Trac Lease, Inc. Mr. Fermanis served as General
Counsel of the Company between February and October 2003. Prior to joining Interpool,
Mr. Fermanis was an associate attorney for six years with the New York law firm of
Haight, Gardner, Poor   Havens (now Holland   Knight). He holds a bachelor s
degree from Princeton University and a law degree from the University of Michigan Law
School.   

William Geoghan  has served as Senior Vice President of each of
Interpool, Interpool Limited and Trac Lease since 1998. Previously, Mr. Geoghan served as
Controller of Interpool from 1992 to 1998 and Vice President and Controller of Interpool
Limited from 1989 to 1998. Mr. Geoghan joined Interpool Limited in 1981 and served as
Assistant Controller for Interpool Limited from 1985 to 1989. Mr. Geoghan is a Certified
Public Accountant and holds a bachelor s degree in commerce from Rider University.   

Allen M. Olinger  became Senior Vice President of Financing in July
of 2005. Over the previous two years, he provided consulting services to us in the area of
finance. Prior to that, Mr. Olinger was president of Personal Computer Rental Corporation,
a technology rental and services company, from 1999 to 2003. From 1987 to 2000, he was
president of MicroTech Leasing Corporation, a computer leasing company which he
co-founded. Each of Personal Computer Rental Corporation and MicroTech Leasing Corporation
were subsidiaries of ours. Mr. Olinger previously held positions as Vice President of the
Telecommunications Group of Prime Capital Corporation, Vice President of Lease Equity
Sales at Finalco, Inc. and Vice President of Financing at Interpool, Inc. He began his
career in leasing at Manufacturers Hanover Leasing Corporation in 1975. Mr. Olinger holds
a BA degree in Economics from Claremont McKenna College, from which he graduated in 1975.   

Hiro Ogawa  is 50% owner and founder of our consolidated subsidiary
Container Applications International, Inc. ( CAI ). Mr. Ogawa is the Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of CAI. Prior to starting CAI in 1989, he was with Itel
Containers for 12 years as Vice President of Marketing for Japan/Korea. Earlier in his
career, he also held the position of Executive Managing Director of Heublein Japan Co.
Ltd. He was also Sales Promotion Manager with Coca-Cola Japan Co. Ltd. Mr. Ogawa graduated
from Kyoto University of Foreign Studies with a B.A. in Economics and English followed by
two years of post-graduate work at the University of Washington Business School.   

Board Compensation   

Each non-officer, non-executive consultant member of the Board of
Directors receives an annual service fee of $25,000 for serving on the Board plus $2,000
and reimbursement of expenses for each Board of Directors  meeting attended and
$1,000 for each committee meeting attended. The chairman of each committee also receives
an additional $500 for each attended committee meeting. Additional compensation may be
paid for participation in teleconferences and attendance at other meetings.   

In February 2005, the Board of Directors approved the payment of special
cash bonuses each in the amount of $100,000 to Messrs. Halstead, Maloney and Whalen for
their extraordinary services in assisting the Company during the period the Company was
restating its financial statements and while it was responding to related inquiries. The
recipient directors abstained from this vote.   

See Item 11. Executive Compensation 1993 Directors Plan and
 2004 Directors Plan for a discussion of stock option plans for members of our Board
of Directors.   

Board Committees   

The Board of Directors has three standing committees: an Audit Committee,
a Compensation Committee and a Corporate Governance Committee. The Audit Committee s
function is to monitor the integrity of the Company s financial statements and our
financial reporting and disclosure practices. The Audit Committee also reviews
management s systems of internal control relating to finance and accounting and the
application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, the Audit
Committee reviews the scope of the services of our independent auditors and may recommend
the independent auditors for appointment by the Board of Directors subject to stockholder
approval. The members of the Audit Committee for 2005 were Messrs. Maloney (Chairman),
Halstead, Mathews and Whalen.   

The Compensation Committee s functions are to review our general
compensation strategy, establish salaries, review benefit programs, approve certain
employment contracts and administer our 2004 Stock Option Plan For Key Employees and
Directors and the 1993 stock option plans. The members of the Compensation Committee for
2005 were Messrs. Halstead (Chairman), Shea and Serenbetz.   

In addition, our Board of Directors created a Corporate Governance
Committee. The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for the selection,
qualification and compensation of Board members and candidates. This committee also acts
as a nominating committee for Board membership and oversees corporate governance matters.
The members of the Corporate Governance Committee for 2005 were Messrs. Mathews
(Chairman), Whalen, Maloney and Serenbetz.   

Our Board of Directors may establish other committees from time to time to
facilitate the management of our business and affairs.   

The Charters of the Company s Audit, Compensation and Corporate
Governance Committees are available on our website at www.interpool.com. Printed copies
are also available to any shareholder upon request.   

Board Independence   

The Board of Directors of the Company has determined that a majority of
the members of the Company s Board of Directors as a whole, and each member of the
Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Corporate Governance Committee for
2005, has no material relationship with the Company and therefore are
 independent  within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange s director
independence standards. Messrs. Halstead, Maloney, Mathews, Serenbetz, Shea and Whalen are
considered to be independent directors. Messrs. Tuchman and Burns, who are executive
officers of the Company, are not considered to be independent.   

Executive Sessions   

The non-management directors of the Company meet in executive session of
the Board without management at many regular board meetings and at each regular meeting of
the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance Committee, and as
otherwise scheduled from time to time. In view of the relatively small size of the Board
of Directors, the Board has not appointed a lead director to preside at executive sessions
of the Board. However, the Chairmen of each of the Audit Committee, the Compensation
Committee, and the Corporate Governance Committees preside at the executive sessions of
their respective committees. Interested parties who would like to communicate with the
non-management directors or any individual non-management director may do so by sending a
letter to any of these directors in care of the General Counsel of the Company at the
corporate headquarters at 211 College Road East, Princeton, New Jersey 08540.   

Communications with the
Board   

Individuals may communicate with the Board in writing by submitting a
letter addressed to the  Board of Directors  or to any of the directors by name
in care of the General Counsel of the Company at the corporate headquarters at the
corporate headquarters at 211 College Road East, Princeton, New Jersey 08540. The
communication should indicate the name(s) of any specific director(s) for whom it is
intended, or the  Board of Directors  as a whole.   

Code of Ethics   

On December 30, 2003 we adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to all of
our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer,
principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. The purpose of the code is
to promote the highest standards of integrity among Interpool officers and employees in
their dealings with and on behalf of Interpool, including dealings with our stockholders,
investors and with others from whom we obtain financing. The Code of Ethics is available
for viewing at our website at www.interpool.com.   

Compliance and Ethics
Hotline   

We have established procedures to receive, retain and address employee
complaints received by the Company. These procedures include a confidential hotline to
answer employees  ethics questions and to report employees  ethical concerns and
incidents including, without limitation, concerns about accounting, internal controls or
auditing matters. This hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and
callers may choose to remain anonymous.   

Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance   

During 2005, Messrs. Geoghan, Gross, Mertz, Tracey, Tuchman and Walsh
failed to file timely Form 4 s in compliance with the prescribed requirements as set
forth under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All of these required
reports were subsequently filed. In making this disclosure, we have relied solely on
written representations of our directors, officers and more than 10% holders and on a
review of copies of reports that have been filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION   

The following table sets forth information for the calendar years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 concerning the annual compensation earned by our Chief
Executive Officer and our four other most highly compensated executive officers:   

  SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE  

(1) 
 
Amounts listed include payments made to or on behalf of the Executive as
provided for in the Executive s employment agreement. 

(2) 
 
Options granted in connection with the cancellation of the Stock Appreciation
Rights pursuant to which the recipient was to have received an amount equal to
the amount of any appreciation in the Company s common stock value above
the grant price of $14.05 per share. These SARS were cancelled in November 2005
and common stock options were granted in lieu thereof. 

(4) 
 
Mr. Burns  living expenses and taxes associated with such living expenses
were paid on his behalf by the Company. See Employment
Agreements. 

(6) 
 
Amount includes a stock bonus of 25 shares of the Company which had a fair
market value on the day it was awarded of $551. 

(7) 
 
Mr. Walsh s living expenses and taxes associated with such living expenses
were paid on his behalf by the Company. See Employment
Agreements. 

(10) 
 
Amounts paid in connection with the cancellation of Stock Appreciation
Rights. 

Stock Option Activity
During Fiscal Year 2005   

In May 2005, an option to purchase 25,000 shares was granted to the
company s Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer, James F. Walsh. In
July 2005, an option to purchase 50,000 shares was granted to another executive officer.   

On November 18, 2005, we agreed with three executive officers (Arthur
Burns, Richard W. Gross and James F. Walsh) upon an arrangement whereby all stock
appreciation rights ( SARS ) granted to such executive officers in 2004 in
connection with their employment agreements would be voluntarily cancelled. In connection
with the cancellation of these SARS, each of these executive officers was granted new
stock options pursuant to the Company s 2004 Stock Option Plan for Executive Officers
and Directors with respect to the same number of shares as the cancelled SARS. Pursuant to
this arrangement, Mr. Burns was granted options with respect to 150,000 shares of common
stock, all of which are vested; Mr. Gross was granted options with respect to 100,000
shares of common stock, all of which are vested; and Mr. Walsh was granted options with
respect to 25,000 shares, of which 16,666 are vested, and the remaining 8,334 are
scheduled to vest on December 31, 2006.   

On December 16, 2005, an option for 5,000 shares was granted to each of
Peter D. Halstead, Clifton H.W. Maloney, Michael S. Mathews, Warren L. Serenbetz, Jr.,
William J. Shea Jr. and Joseph J. Whalen pursuant to the 2004 Directors Plan.   

In September 2005, former executive Raoul J. Witteveen exercised 500,000
stock options under the terms of the 1993 Stock Option Plan. In accordance with the terms
of the 1993 Stock Option Plan, Mr. Witteveen paid the aggregate exercise price for these
options by tendering to the Company a total of 284,880 shares of the Company s common
stock he then owned, which under the 1993 Stock Option Plan were valued at their total
fair market value based on the market price of the common stock at the date of exercise.
In addition, Mr. Witteveen reimbursed the Company in cash for the tax withholding related
to the exercise.   

In October 2005, Mr. Witteveen exercised his remaining 640,000 options
under the terms of the 1993 Stock Option Plan. In connection with the exercise, Mr.
Witteveen remitted payment to the Company for the exercise of the options and an
additional sum to pay for his estimated tax withholding.   

None of our executive officers exercised any stock options during 2005.   

2004 Stock Option Plan   

Our 2004 Stock Option Plan for Key Employees and Directors was adopted by
our Board of Directors on November 3, 2004   and approved by our stockholders at our
2004 Annual Meeting. A total of 1.5 million shares of common stock have been reserved for
issuance under the 2004 Stock Option Plan. Options may be granted under the 2004 Stock
Option Plan, in the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, to
key employees and directors (whether or not they are employees) of Interpool, Inc. and its
subsidiaries. The number of shares that may be the subject of options granted during any
calendar year to any one individual cannot exceed 250,000 shares.   

The 2004 Stock Option Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee,
which consists solely of independent directors. The Compensation Committee has the
authority, within limitations as set forth in the 2004 Stock Option Plan, to establish
rules and regulations concerning the 2004 Stock Option Plan, and to determine the persons
to whom options may be granted, the number of shares of common stock to be covered by each
option and the terms and provisions of the option to be granted. The Compensation
Committee has the right to cancel any outstanding options and to issue new options on the
terms and upon the conditions as may be consented to by the optionee affected. In
addition, the Compensation Committee has the authority, subject to the terms of the 2004
Stock Option Plan, to determine the appropriate adjustments in the terms of each
outstanding option in the event of a change in the common stock or our capital structure.   

Options are exercisable by the holder subject to terms fixed by the
Compensation Committee. An option will be exercisable immediately upon the occurrence of
any of the following (but in no event subsequent to the expiration of the term of an
option):   

(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
 
the holder s retirement on or after attainment of age 65; 
the holder s disability or death; or 
special circumstances or events as the Compensation Committee determines merits special consideration.

Under the 2004 Stock Option Plan, a holder may pay the exercise price in
cash, by check, by delivery to us of shares of common stock already owned by the holder
for at least six months by a cashless method in accordance with procedures that may be
established by the Compensation Committee or by such other method as the Compensation
Committee may permit from time to time.   

Options granted under the 2004 Stock Option Plan are not transferable
except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. However, the Compensation
Committee may, in its discretion, authorize a transfer of any option (other than an
incentive stock option), by the initial holder to (i) the family members of the initial
holder, (ii) a trust or trusts for the exclusive benefit of such family members, (iii) a
corporation or partnership in which such family members and/or the initial holder are the
only shareholders or partners, or (iv) such other persons or entities which the
Compensation Committee may permit; provided, however, that subsequent transfers of such
option shall be prohibited except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. If an
option holder terminates employment with us and all subsidiaries or service as a director
of Interpool or a subsidiary while holding an unexercised option, the option will
terminate immediately, but the option holder will have until the end of the tenth business
day following his termination of employment or service to exercise the option.   

However, all options held by an option holder will terminate immediately
if the termination is for cause, including but not limited to violation of the
holder s duties. If cessation of employment or service is due to retirement on or
after attainment of age 65, disability or death, the option holder or the holder s
successor-in-interest, as the case may be, is permitted to exercise any option within
three months of retirement or within six months of disability or twelve months of death.
Shares subject to options granted under the 2004 Stock Option Plan which expire, terminate
or are cancelled without having been exercised in full become available again for option
grants.   

The 2004 Stock Option Plan may be terminated and may be modified or
amended by the Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors at any time; provided,
however, that (1) no modification or amendment increasing the aggregate number of shares
which may be issued under the 2004 Stock Option Plan or under options granted to any
individual during any calendar year, or changing the class of persons who are eligible to
receive options will be effective without stockholder approval within one year of the
adoption of the amendment and (2) no such termination, modification or amendment of the
2004 Stock Option Plan will alter or affect the terms of any then outstanding options
without the consent of the holders thereof (except as described below). The Compensation
Committee may cancel or terminate an outstanding option with the consent of the holder and
grant an option for the same number of shares to the individual based on the then fair
market value of the common stock, which may be higher or lower than the exercise price of
the canceled option. In addition, the Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors may
amend the 2004 Stock Option Plan and the terms of outstanding options, without the consent
of the holders thereof, in connection with any tax law changes which are not consistent
with the purpose and intended tax treatment of the 2004 Stock Option Plan and the options
as previously in effect.   

As of December 31, 2005, a total of 350,000 options, 274,999 of which are
exercisable, were held by 4 persons under the 2004 Stock Option Plan.   

Previously, we maintained a 1993 Stock Option Plan for Executive Officers
and Directors, which is discussed below.   

1993 Stock Option Plan   

No options may be granted under the 1993 Stock Option Plan more than 10
years after the adoption of the Stock Option Plan, which period expired in March 2003. Our
1993 Stock Option Plan for Executive Officers and Directors was adopted by our Board of
Directors and approved by the stockholders in March 1993. A total of 6,000,000 shares of
common stock were reserved for issuance under the 1993 Stock Option Plan. Options could
have been granted under the 1993 Stock Option Plan to executive officers and Directors of
Interpool or a subsidiary (including any executive consultant of Interpool and its
subsidiaries), whether or not they were employees. As of December 31, 2005, 2,663,063
options were issued and outstanding under the 1993 Stock Option Plan, all of which are
exercisable by 15 persons.   

Effective January 1, 2004 the Compensation Committee began to administer
the 1993 Stock Option Plan. During 2003, the 1993 Stock Option Plan was administered by a
committee of the Board of Directors consisting of Martin Tuchman and Peter Halstead,
Directors.   

The 1993 Stock Option Plan does not require that the members of the
Compensation Committee be  disinterested persons  within the meaning of Rule
16b-3, as from time to time amended, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The
Compensation Committee has the authority, within limitations as set forth in the 1993
Stock Option Plan, to establish rules and regulations concerning the 1993 Stock Option
Plan. In addition, the Compensation Committee has the authority, subject to the terms of
the 1993 Stock Option Plan, to determine the appropriate adjustments in the terms of each
outstanding option in the event of a change in the common stock or our capital structure.   

Options are exercisable by the holder subject to terms fixed by the
Compensation Committee. No option can be exercised until at least six months after the
date of grant. However, an option will be exercisable immediately upon the occurrence of
any of the following (but in no event during the six-month period following the date of
grant or subsequent to the expiration of the term of an option):   

(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
 
the holder s retirement on or after attainment of age 65; 
the holder s disability or death; or 
special circumstances or events as the Compensation Committee determines merits
special consideration. 

Under the 1993 Stock Option Plan, a holder may pay the exercise price in
cash, by check, by delivery to us of shares of common stock already owned by the holder,
or, with respect to non-qualified stock options and subject to approval by the
Compensation Committee, in shares issuable in connection with the option, or by such other
method as the Compensation Committee may permit from time to time.   

Options granted under the 1993 Stock Option Plan are non-transferable and
non-assignable; provided, however, that the estate of a deceased holder may exercise any
options held by the decedent. If an option holder terminates employment with us and all
subsidiaries or service as a director of Interpool or a subsidiary while holding an
unexercised option, the option will terminate immediately, but the option holder will have
until the end of the tenth business day following his termination of employment or service
to exercise the option. However, all options held by an option holder will terminate
immediately if the termination is for cause, including but not limited to a result of a
violation of the holder s duties. If cessation of employment or service is due to
retirement on or after attainment of age 65, disability or death, the option holder or the
holder s successor-in-interest, as the case may be, is permitted to exercise any
option within three months of retirement or disability or within six months of death.   

The 1993 Stock Option Plan may be modified or amended by the Compensation
Committee or the Board of Directors at any time; provided, however, that (1) no
modification or amendment increasing the aggregate number of shares which may be issued
under options, increasing materially the benefits accruing to participants under the 1993
Stock Option Plan, or materially modifying the requirements as to eligibility to receive
options will be effective without stockholder approval within one year of the adoption of
the amendment and (2) no such modification or amendment of the 1993 Stock Option Plan will
alter or affect the terms of any then outstanding options without the consent of the
holders thereof. The Compensation Committee may cancel or terminate an outstanding option
with the consent of the holder.   

2004 Directors Plan   

Our 2004 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee, Non-Officer
Directors was adopted by our Board of Directors on November 3, 2004 and approved by our
stockholders at our 2004 Annual Meeting. A total of 250,000 shares of common stock have
been reserved for issuance under the 2004 Directors Plan. The exercise price per share is
the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date. The options granted pursuant
to the 2004 Directors Plan may be exercised at the rate of one-third of the shares on the
first anniversary of the options  grant date, one-third of the shares on the second
anniversary of the options  grant date and one-third of the shares on the third
anniversary of the options  grant date, subject to applicable, holding periods
required under rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Options granted pursuant
to the 2004 Directors Plan expire ten years from their grant date. In the event of
disability or death of a director, the option must be exercised prior to the expiration of
the term of the option and within six months of the option holder s disability or
within twelve months of the option holder s death. In the event of resignation of a
director, the option must be exercised within ten days of the date of resignation.   

The 2004 Directors Plan provides for the automatic grant of nonqualified
options to non-employee non-officer directors. Under the 2004 Directors Plan, each person
who is not an employee or officer and served as a member of our Board of Directors
following the annual meeting held during 2004 received a grant of options for 15,000
shares of common stock on the business day following our annual meeting held in 2004. In
addition, each person who becomes a non-employee non-officer director following the annual
meeting held during 2004 will automatically receive a grant of options for 15,000 shares
on the first business day after becoming a director. The 2004 Directors Plan also provides
for additional automatic grants of options for 5,000 shares on an annual basis to each
continuing director, other than an employee or officer, on the first business day
following each future annual meeting, beginning with the annual meeting to be held during
2005.   

Under the 2004 Directors Plan, a holder may pay the exercise price in
cash, by check, by delivery to us of shares of common stock already owned by the holder
for at least six months, by a cashless method through a registered broker-dealer or by
such other method as the Board of Directors may permit from time to time.   

The 2004 Directors Plan is administered by the Board of Directors. Options
granted under the 2004 Directors Plan are not transferable except by will or the laws of
descent and distribution. However, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion,
authorize a transfer of any option, by the initial holder to (i) the family members of the
initial holder, (ii) a trust or trusts for the exclusive benefit of such family members,
(iii) a company or partnership in which such family members and/or the initial holder are
the only shareholders or partners, or (iv) such other persons or entities which the Board
of Directors may permit; provided, however, that subsequent transfers of such Option shall
be prohibited except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. If an option holder
terminates service as a director of Interpool or a subsidiary while holding an unexercised
option, the option will terminate immediately, but the option holder will have until the
end of the tenth business day following his termination of service to exercise the option.   

The 2004 Directors Plan may be terminated and may be modified or amended
by the Board of Directors at any time; provided, however, that any amendment by the Board
of Directors which would require stockholder approval (pursuant to the rules of any
exchange on which the shares are traded) shall be subject to such stockholder approval.
The Board of Directors may amend the 2004 Directors Plan and the terms of outstanding
options, without the consent of the holders thereof, in connection with any tax law
charges which are not consistent with the purpose and intended tax treatment of the 2004
Directors Plan and options previously in effect.   

As of December 31, 2005, a total of 120,000 options, 30,000 of which are
exercisable, were held by 6 persons under the 2004 Directors Plan.   

Previously, we maintained the 1993 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan for
Non-Employee, Non-Consultant Directors, which is discussed below.   

1993 Directors Plan   

Our Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee, Non-Consultant
Directors was adopted by our Board of Directors and approved by the stockholders in March
1993. The 1993 Directors Plan provided for the automatic grant of 15,000 non-qualified
options to non-employee, non-consultant directors at the time the director first joins the
Board. The 1993 Directors Plan authorized grants of options up to an aggregate of 150,000
shares of common stock. The exercise price per share was the fair market value of our
common stock on the grant date. The options granted pursuant to the 1993 Directors Plan
may be exercised at the rate of one-third of the shares on the first anniversary of the
options  grant date, one-third of the shares on the second anniversary of the
options  grant date and one-third of the shares on the third anniversary of the
options  grant date, subject to applicable holding periods required under rules of
the Securities and Exchange Commission. Options granted pursuant to the 1993 Directors
Plan expire ten years from their grant date except that in the event of the death of a
director, the option must be exercised within six months of the date of death or, in the
event of resignation of a director, the option must be exercised within ten days of the
date of resignation.   

Under the 1993 Directors  Plan, a holder may pay the exercise price
in cash, by check, by delivery to us of shares of common stock already owned by the
holder, or, subject to approval by the Compensation Committee, in shares issuable in
connection with the option, or by such other method as the Compensation Committee may
permit from time to time.   

Effective January 1, 2004, the Stock Option Plan formerly administered by
the Stock Option Committee, began to be administered by the Compensation Committee.   

Pursuant to the 1993 Directors Plan, an option to purchase 15,000 shares
of common stock was granted to each of Peter D. Halstead in June 1994, Joseph J. Whalen in
April 1996 and Clifton H.W. Maloney in February 2000. On September 16, 1998, pursuant to
an option repricing program, 15,000 options held by each of Messrs. Halstead and Whalen
were cancelled and replaced with newly issued options with an exercise price equal to the
closing market price on September 16, 1998, the grant date, which vested six months from
the grant date and expire ten years from the grant date. All other terms and conditions of
the newly issued options are the same as those of the cancelled options.   

As of December 31, 2005, a total of 45,000 options were issued and
outstanding under the 1993 Directors Plan. These options were held by three directors and
all are exercisable.   

401(k) Plan   

We have adopted a deferred savings plan which is intended to qualify under
Section 401(k) of the Code. All our employees who are based in the United States are
eligible to participate in the 401(k) Plan. Each participant may elect to contribute up to
6% of such participant s compensation on a pre-tax basis for which the Company makes
matching contributions equal to 75% of the participant s contribution. In addition,
participants can elect to make additional unmatched contributions to the 401(k) Plan up to
an additional 9% of the participant s compensation. Such salary deferral
contributions are 100% vested at all times. Amounts credited to a participant s
account are distributed to the participant at the earliest of (1) the termination of his
or her employment with us, (2) a requested withdrawal after age 59 1/2 or upon evidence of
disability or (3) a requested withdrawal due to financial hardship. The 401(k) Plan
administrator may authorize loans from the 401(k) Plan to participants in a manner which
is uniform and nondiscriminatory. Under the Code, salary deferral contributions are not
taxable to the employee until the amounts are distributed to the employee, and all
matching contributions are tax deductible to us. The 401(k) Plan provides for the making
by us of any matching or profit sharing contributions to the 401(k) Plan, in the form of
shares of common stock of Interpool.   

Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation   

During fiscal year 2005, Mr. Tuchman participated in deliberations of our
Board of Directors concerning executive officer compensation. Mr. Tuchman did not
participate in discussions regarding his own compensation.   

Employment Agreements
With Named Executive Officers   

We have an employment agreement with Martin Tuchman which currently
expires on December 31, 2012, except that on each January 1, the expiration date is
automatically extended for an additional year unless we or Mr. Tuchman give written notice
of an election not to extend beyond the end of the then current seven-year term. Notice of
any election not to extend the expiration date must be delivered not less than six months
prior to the next occurring January 1.   

As compensation for the services to be rendered under his employment
agreement, Mr. Tuchman will be paid an annual base salary of $1,039,464 in 2006. The base
salary under the employment agreement increases by a minimum of 5% each year. In addition,
Mr. Tuchman is entitled to receive an annual bonus equal to 2% of the amount of any
increase in our net income during the year from its net income during the preceding year.   

As described below, Mr. Tuchman is entitled, under the terms of his
employment agreement and under the bonus plan approved by our Compensation Committee in
2000, to receive a performance bonus each year based upon several factors, including the
amount of any increase in our net income over the previous year s net income and, if
applicable, for any increase over the highest net income previously reported by the
Company. Because our 2004 net income was lower than our net income in 2003, Mr. Tuchman
did not earn a bonus for 2004 based upon these measures. The Compensation Committee noted,
however, that our 2004 net income was adversely affected by a non-cash expense in the
amount of $49,222,339 resulting from an increase during the fourth quarter of 2004 in the
fair value of our common stock purchase warrants issued in September 2004, as described
elsewhere in this report, and that without this expense our 2004 net income would have
been $57,650,843, representing the highest net income ever reported by the Company. It
also noted that, when all accounting conditions are met by the Company, the valuation of
these warrants would be reclassified to equity without affecting net income, the
measurement used to compensate Mr. Tuchman under the plans discussed above. Although this
expense was required by generally accepted accounting principles, the members of the
Compensation Committee concluded that Mr. Tuchman should receive a discretionary bonus
reflecting Interpool s profitable operations and other accomplishments during 2004,
notwithstanding the adverse effect on net income of the non-cash expense relating to the
warrants. Accordingly, the Compensation Committee agreed to pay Mr. Tuchman a
discretionary bonus for 2004 in the amount of $1,861,025, which represented the amount of
the additional bonuses to which Mr. Tuchman would have been entitled under the terms of
his employment agreement and under his bonus plan if our 2004 net income had not been
adversely affected by the warrant expense. This discretionary bonus, together with a bonus
in the amount of $406,467 which Mr. Tuchman earned for 2004 under the terms of the bonus
plan based upon increases in the market price of Interpool s common stock during
2004, was paid to Mr. Tuchman in cash during the first quarter of 2005. The Compensation
Committee and Mr. Tuchman also agreed that Mr. Tuchman s eligibility in 2005 and
thereafter for bonuses based on any future increases in our net income would be measured
against adjusted net income for 2004 of $57,650,843. In addition, because no bonus had
been paid to Mr. Tuchman for 2003, during 2004 the Compensation Committee awarded Mr.
Tuchman an additional discretionary bonus of $350,000 in recognition of Mr. Tuchman s
efforts on the Company s behalf during 2003 and 2004.   

The employment agreement (1) includes a non-competition provision; (2)
provides that, in the event of the employee s death, the employee s base salary
will continue to be paid to his beneficiary for two additional years and, in the event of
termination of the employee without cause, the employee will continue to receive his base
salary for the entire remaining term then in effect under the employment agreement; and
(3) provides for reimbursement to the employee, for both the employee and his spouse, of
all health related costs and expenses that are not advanced or reimbursed to the employee
pursuant to our medical and dental insurance plans, which additional reimbursement
continues for a period of five years after expiration of the employment agreement. Mr.
Tuchman may also be entitled to receive incentive bonuses as determined by our
Compensation Committee.   

In addition to the compensation (including bonuses) provided for under his
employment agreement, as more fully described above, Mr. Tuchman also receives bonuses
under a bonus plan the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors adopted effective
January 1, 2000, with three measures of incentive bonus performance: (1) increase in stock
price; (2) increase in net income over the highest previous year; and (3) maintaining
an investment grade debt rating. Based upon the plan as adopted, Mr. Tuchman received
additional bonuses for 2005, 2004 and 2003 in amounts of $1,810,550, $406,467 and
$751,041, respectively.   

Increase in Net Income:  To the extent that our net income exceeds
that of the highest previous year, a bonus equal to 10% of the increase is to be paid to
our Chief Executive Officer. No bonus was paid to Mr. Tuchman in respect to this
performance measure for 2005, 2004 or 2003.   

Investment Grade Rating:  Our Chief Executive Officer is entitled to
a bonus of $100,000 for each year in which we maintain an investment grade debt rating by
either Moody s or Standard and Poor s at year-end. No bonus under this
performance measure was awarded in 2005, 2004 or 2003.   

Increased Stock Price:  To the extent our average stock price for a
year exceeds the highest average stock price for any prior year, our Chief Executive
Officer will receive a bonus in the amount of 1.5% of the increase in our average
aggregate market capitalization (the product of the increase in the average stock price
times the weighted average of outstanding shares plus the dilutive effect of options).
Because our 2005 average stock price exceeded the previous  high water mark,  a
bonus in the amount of $1,810,550 was awarded to Mr. Tuchman for 2005 under this
performance measure. Because our 2004 average stock price exceeded the previous  high
water mark,  a bonus in the amount of $406,467 was awarded to Mr. Tuchman for 2004
under this performance measure. No bonus under this performance measure was awarded in
2003.   

We have entered into an employment agreement with Arthur L. Burns,
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Director of the Company. Mr. Burns s
employment agreement with the Company became effective on July 1, 2004 and currently
expires on October 16, 2006, except that on October 17, 2006 and on each three year
anniversary of such date, the term shall be automatically extended for an additional three
year period, unless the Company or Mr. Burns shall have given written notice of intention
not to renew 180 days prior to the expiration of the then current term. During 2005, Mr.
Burns was paid an annual base salary of $393,750, participated in all Company fringe
benefits programs, and was entitled to receive a target bonus in the amount of $125,000
upon the successful completion of performance objectives as determined from time to time.
Additional discretionary bonuses may be paid in such amounts as shall be determined at the
sole discretion of the Compensation Committee. Commencing as of January 1, 2005 and on
each subsequent January 1, Mr. Burns s salary and target bonus shall be either
maintained or adjusted upwards as determined in the sole discretion of the Compensation
Committee. In addition, Mr. Burns is reimbursed for all transition expenses through June
30, 2005 and will receive up to $100,000 in transition expenses thereafter in lieu of
relocation expenses should he elect not to relocate. In the event that the Company
terminates the employment agreement during the term for any reason other than cause or
disability or elects not to renew Mr. Burns s employment agreement or if Mr. Burns
terminates the employment agreement for good reason (which, as defined in the employment
agreement, would include a change of control of the Company), Mr. Burns is entitled to a
severance payment in an amount equal to 36 months of his then current base salary and
target bonus and continued paid participation in all health, life and disability insurance
programs offered by the Company to all employees. In the event of a change of control, the
obligations of the Company under the employment agreement, including severance obligations
shall expire no earlier than 36 months following the change of control. In addition, the
Company granted Mr. Burns stock appreciation rights to 150,000 shares of common stock at a
price of $14.05 per share, pursuant to which Mr. Burns would have been entitled to receive
an amount equal to any appreciation in the Company s common stock market value. The
stock appreciation rights vested as of January 15, 2005. In November 2005 the Company
exercised its right to substitute common stock options under the same terms and conditions
of the stock appreciation rights and agreed to pay Mr. Burns an amount equal to the
difference between the common stock closing price on November 18, 2005 and the grant price
of the stock appreciation rights. The common stock options are exercisable by Mr. Burns at
any time prior to the expiration of the earlier of 10 days following the termination of
Mr. Burns (except that the ten day period shall not apply in the event of a termination by
the Company without cause, executive disability or termination by Mr. Burns for good
reason) or June 30, 2014. Upon the termination of the employment agreement and payment of
the severance payment, Mr. Burns has agreed not to compete with the Company, directly or
indirectly, for a period of one year.   

We have entered into an employment agreement with James F. Walsh,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Mr. Walsh s
employment agreement dated July 1, 2004, as amended in July, 2005, currently expires on
November 16, 2006, provided, however, that the term shall automatically be extended for an
additional one year period unless either the Company or Mr. Walsh shall have given written
notice of intention not to renew 180 days prior to the expiration of the then current
term. During 2005, Mr. Walsh was paid an annual base salary of $315,000, participated in
all Company related fringe benefit programs, and was entitled to receive a target bonus in
the amount of $165,000 upon the successful completion of performance objectives as
determined from time to time. Additional discretionary bonuses may be paid in such amounts
as shall be determined at the sole discretion of the Compensation Committee. Commencing as
of January 1, 2005 and on each subsequent anniversary date, Mr. Walsh s salary and
target bonus shall either be maintained or adjusted upwards as determined in the sole
discretion of the Compensation Committee. In addition, Mr. Walsh is reimbursed for all
transition expenses in lieu of relocation expenses should he elect not to relocate. In
addition, the Company granted Mr. Walsh stock appreciation rights to 25,000 shares of
common stock at a price of $14.05 per share, pursuant to which Mr. Walsh would have been
entitled to receive an amount equal to any appreciation in the Company s common stock
market value. In November 2005 the Company exercised its right to substitute common stock
options under the same terms and conditions of the stock appreciation rights and agreed to
pay Mr. Walsh an amount equal to the difference between the common stock closing price on
November 18, 2005 and the grant price of the stock appreciation rights. The common stock
options, of which 16,666 are vested, and the remaining 8,334 are scheduled to vest on
December 31, 2006, are exercisable by Mr. Walsh at any time prior to the expiration of the
earlier of 10 days following the termination of Mr. Walsh (except that the ten day period
shall not apply in the event of a termination by the Company without cause, executive
disability or termination by Mr. Walsh for good reason) or June 30, 2014. In the event
that the employment agreement is terminated during the term by either the Company for any
reason other than cause or disability or by Mr. Walsh for good reason, Mr. Walsh shall be
entitled to a severance payment in an amount equal to 24 months of his then current salary
and target bonus and continued paid participation in all Company health, disability and
life insurance programs. In the event of a change of control, the obligations of the
Company under the employment agreement, including severance obligations, shall expire no
earlier than 24 months following the change of control. If the Company does not renew Mr.
Walsh s employment agreement following a change in control, Mr. Walsh is entitled to
a severance payment equal to his then current base salary and target bonus. Upon the
termination of the employment agreement and payment of the severance payment, Mr. Walsh
has agreed not to compete with the Company, directly or indirectly, for a period of one
year.   

We have entered into an employment agreement with Richard W. Gross,
Executive Vice President of the Company and Chief Operating Officer of Interpool Limited.
Mr. Gross s employment agreement with the Company became effective on July 1, 2004
and currently expires on October 14, 2006, provided, however, that the term shall
automatically be extended for an additional one year period unless either the Company or
Mr. Gross shall have given written notice of intention not to renew 180 days prior to the
expiration of the then current term. During 2005, Mr. Gross was paid an annual base salary
of $315,000, participated in all Company related fringe benefit programs, and was entitled
to receive a target bonus in the amount of $160,000 upon the successful completion of
performance objectives as determined from time to time. Additional discretionary bonuses
may be paid in such amounts as shall be determined at the sole discretion of the
Compensation Committee. Commencing on January 1, 2005 and on each subsequent anniversary
date, Mr. Gross s salary and target bonus shall either be maintained or adjusted
upwards in the sole discretion of the Compensation Committee. In addition, the Company
granted Mr. Gross stock appreciation rights to 100,000 shares of common stock at a price
of $14.05 per share, pursuant to which Mr. Gross would have been entitled to receive an
amount equal to any appreciation in the Company s common stock market value. The
stock appreciation rights vested as of October 15, 2005. In November 2005 the Company
exercised its right to substitute common stock options under the same terms and conditions
of the stock appreciation rights and agreed to pay Mr. Gross an amount equal to the
difference between the common stock closing price on November 18, 2005 and the grant price
of the stock appreciation rights. The common stock options are exercisable by Mr. Gross at
any time prior to the expiration of the earlier of 10 days following the termination of
Mr. Gross (except that the ten day period shall not apply in the event of a termination by
the Company without cause, executive disability or termination by Mr. Gross for good
reason) or June 30, 2014. In the event that the employment agreement is terminated during
the term by either the Company for any reason other than cause or disability or by Mr.
Gross for good reason, Mr. Gross shall be entitled to a severance payment in an amount
equal to 24 months of his then current salary and target bonus and 24 months continued
paid participation in all Company health, disability and life insurance programs. In the
event of a change of control, the obligations of the Company under the employment
agreement including severance obligations shall expire no earlier than 24 months following
the change of control. If the Company does not renew Mr. Gross s employment agreement
following a change in control, Mr. Gross is entitled to a severance payment equal to his
then current salary and target bonus. Upon the termination of the employment agreement and
payment of the severance payment, Mr. Gross has agreed not to compete with the Company,
directly or indirectly, for a period of one year.   

In October 2004, we entered into an employment agreement with Herbert
Mertz, Executive Vice President of the Company and Chief Operating Officer of Trac Lease
for the period commencing on January 1, 2005 and expiring on December 31, 2005. During
2005 Mr. Mertz was paid an annual base salary of $288,750, participated in all Company
related fringe benefit programs and earned a bonus in the amount of $375,000 for the
successful completion of performance objectives. In July 2005, Mr. Mertz s employment
agreement was extended for an additional one year term which commenced on January 1, 2006
and will expire on December 31, 2006, provided, however, that the term shall automatically
be extended for an additional one year period unless either the Company or Mr. Mertz shall
have given written notice of intention not to renew 180 days prior to the expiration of
the then current term. During 2006, Mr. Mertz will be paid an annual base salary of
$300,000, participate in all Company related fringe benefit programs, and receive a target
bonus in the amount of $160,000 upon the successful completion of performance objectives
as determined from time to time. Additional discretionary bonuses may be paid in such
amounts as shall be determined at the sole discretion of the Compensation Committee.
Commencing on January 1, 2007 and on each subsequent anniversary date, Mr. Mertz s
salary and target bonus shall either be maintained or adjusted upwards in the sole
discretion of the Compensation Committee. In addition, the Company granted Mr. Mertz
50,000 common stock options, pursuant to the Company s 2004 Stock Option Plan for
Executive officers, vesting in installments through 2007. In the event that the employment
agreement is terminated during the term by either the Company for any reason other than
cause or disability or by Mr. Mertz for good reason, Mr. Mertz shall be entitled to a
severance payment in an amount equal to 24 months of his then current salary and target
bonus and continued paid participation in all Company health, disability and life
insurance programs. In the event of a change of control, the obligations of the Company
under the employment agreement, including severance obligations, shall expire no earlier
than 24 months following the change of control. If the Company does not renew Mr.
Mertz s employment agreement following a change in control, Mr. Mertz is entitled to
a severance payment equal to his then current base salary and target bonus. Upon the
termination of the employment agreement and payment of the severance payment, Mr. Mertz
has agreed not to compete with the Company, directly or indirectly, for a period of two
years.   

Employment Contracts
with Former Executives   

We entered into an employment agreement with Raoul J. Witteveen, our
former President and Chief Operating Officer dated as of January 1, 1992, as amended and
restated. As of January 1, 2003, the new expiration date of Mr. Witteveen s
Employment Agreement was extended to December 31, 2010. Under the terms of his employment
agreement, on each January 1, the expiration date of the employment agreement was
automatically extended for an additional year unless we or the employee party to such
employment agreement gave written notice of an election not to extend beyond the end of
the then current seven-year term. Notice of any such election not to extend the expiration
date was required to be delivered not less than six months prior to the next occurring
January 1. Mr. Witteveen s Employment Agreement was terminated on October 9, 2003.   

As compensation for the services rendered under the employment agreement,
for 2003 Mr. Witteveen was paid an annual base salary of $632,835.   

In addition to the compensation (including bonuses) provided for under his
employment agreement, Mr. Witteveen also received bonuses under a bonus plan the
Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors adopted effective January 1, 2000, with
three measures of incentive bonus performance: (1) increase in stock price; (2) increase
in net income; and (3) maintaining an investment grade debt rating.   

In January 2002, we entered into an employment agreement with Mitchell I.
Gordon, our former Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President. Under the terms
of the Employment Agreement, Mr. Gordon was paid an annual base salary of $250,000 and was
entitled to receive performance based and discretionary bonuses as determined by the
Compensation Committee. The term of the Employment Agreement was scheduled to expire on
December 31, 2003 except that on or before June 30, 2003, we were required to either
notify Mr. Gordon of our intention not to renew his Employment Agreement or provide the
terms under which we will offer a new agreement. The Employment Agreement (i) included a
non-competition provision; (ii) provided that, in the event of the employee s death,
the employee s base salary will continue to be paid to his beneficiary for the
remainder of the term and; (iii) provided for participation in all Company medical and
dental insurance plans. Mr. Gordon s Employment Agreement was terminated on July 17,
2003 in connection with the separation agreement that we entered into with Mr. Gordon.   

Separation Agreements   

On July 17, 2003, Mitchell I. Gordon, who had been our Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, resigned as an employee and officer of the Company.
Pursuant to his resignation, we entered into a separation agreement under which Mr. Gordon
received a payment of $200,000 (his accrued bonus for 2003) and an additional payment of
$800,000 and over the next four years will receive other payments totaling an additional
$3,200,000. In the event of a change of control of the Company these payment obligations
would accelerate. In accordance with the terms of the separation agreement, Mr. Gordon
will continue to receive certain benefits over the next five years including health, life,
disability and accident insurance as well as a car allowance, at the same cost to Mr.
Gordon as if Mr. Gordon had continued to be an executive officer of the Company. Mr.
Gordon also is provided an office allowance. The cost to us of these continued benefits to
the former executive will amount to approximately $107,000. The separation agreement
provided for the immediate vesting of Mr. Gordon s stock options. Under the
separation agreement, Mr. Gordon agreed to provide certain consulting services to us. In
October 2003, Mr. Gordon resigned from his positions as a director of the Company and its
affiliates. In connection with Mr. Gordon s separation agreement, Mr. Gordon s
prior employment agreement (which would have continued until December 31, 2003) was
terminated and each of the Company and Mr. Gordon relinquished certain rights thereunder.   

On October 9, 2003, Raoul Witteveen, who had served as our President and
Chief Operating Officer, resigned as an employee, officer and director of the Company and
its affiliates. At the time of his resignation, we and Mr. Witteveen reached an
understanding regarding the severance and other principal terms that would be set forth in
a separation agreement to be entered into between us and Mr. Witteveen. Under the terms
agreed upon, Mr. Witteveen received an amount equal to his full 2003 annual base salary
($632,835) for each year through October 9, 2005 as well as health, life, disability and
accident insurance and reimbursements through the same date. Mr. Witteveen was provided
with an office allowance, an allowance for an executive assistant, and an automobile
allowance, in each case through October 9, 2004. The cost to us of these continued
benefits to the former executive was approximately $211,000. It was also agreed that Mr.
Witteveen s outstanding stock options, all of which were fully vested as of the date
of his resignation, would be exercisable until October 9, 2005, and that Mr.
Witteveen s future sale of common stock would be subject to certain volume
restrictions and a right of first refusal on the part of Interpool and its affiliates. As
part of the separation agreement, Mr. Witteveen agreed not to engage in a competing
business, either directly or indirectly, for a period of two years from his resignation
date. In connection with Mr. Witteveen s separation agreement, Mr. Witteveen s
prior employment agreement (which would have continued until 2010) was terminated and Mr.
Witteveen relinquished his rights thereunder. A definitive separation agreement
incorporating these terms was executed on August 10, 2004.   

In January 2005, in response to a recent change in United States tax laws
potentially affecting future payments to be made to Mr. Witteveen under his separation
agreement, we and Mr. Witteveen entered into a modification to his separation agreement
pursuant to which, in lieu of the remaining monthly payments through October 2005 and
other amounts to which Mr. Witteveen would have been entitled under his original
separation agreement, we paid him a lump sum of $467,473. To secure the performance of his
future obligations to us under the separation agreement, Mr. Witteveen pledged to us a
total of 22,114 shares of our common stock (having a market value at that time of
approximately $520,000). Such pledged shares were released to Mr. Witteveen in
installments through October 2005, based on his continued compliance with his obligations
under the modified separation agreement.   

Deferred Bonus Plan   

In November 2002, our Board of Directors approved a Deferred Bonus Plan
under which employees of Interpool and our affiliates who received discretionary year-end
bonuses of greater than $50,000 received such bonuses partly in cash and partly in the
form of an award of Interpool common stock. Bonus stock awards under this plan vest in
equal installments over a five-year period, unless the recipient elected to have the award
vest over a ten-year period or the Board of Directors specified another period. The
unvested portion of any bonus stock award will vest immediately if a change in control of
Interpool occurs, if the employee is terminated without cause, if the employee resigns for
a good reason, if the employee dies or becomes permanently disabled, or in any other
circumstance deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors. If a recipient resigns
voluntarily without a good reason or is terminated for cause, the employee would forfeit
any unvested portion of any bonus stock award. The number of shares covered by any bonus
stock award was determined based upon a 10% discount from the market price of Interpool
common stock at year-end, except that the discount was 30% for any bonus stock awards that
vest over ten years. Under the Plan, each employee granted a bonus stock award has the
right to require us to purchase from the employee a total number of shares equal to the
number covered by the bonus stock award.   

On January 2, 2003, the Company granted to 12 eligible employees 139,067
shares of restricted stock that had a fair value of $16.83 per share at the grant date,
4,641 of which vest over a five year period, 74,019 vest over a ten year period and 60,407
were forfeited. During the fourth quarter 2003, in accordance with the terms of the
separation agreement with the Company s previous President and Chief Operating
Officer, 60,407 unvested shares were forfeited.   

On January 2, 2004, the Company granted to 17 eligible employees 27,259
shares of restricted stock that had a fair value of $13.60 per share at the grant date,
7,301 of which vest over a five year period and 19,958 vest over a ten year period. During
the first quarter 2004, our Chief Executive Officer elected to voluntarily relinquish his
entire 2002 bonus including 60,407 unvested shares of restricted stock.   

In September 2004, the Board of Directors terminated the Deferred Bonus
Plan. All stock previously issued under the Deferred Bonus Plan will continue to be
subject to the terms of the Deferred Bonus Plan. However, future bonuses will not be
subject to the terms of the Deferred Bonus Plan.   

Compensation expense related to the deferred bonus plan for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $112,000, $85,000 and $140,000, respectively
and is included in administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Income. The unamortized deferred compensation remaining in stockholders equity at December
31, 2005 was approximately $442,000.   

ITEM 12. SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT   

The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the
beneficial ownership of the Company s common stock as of March 1, 2006 by certain
beneficial owners, each of the Company s directors, certain executive officers and
all executive officers and directors as a group.   

Name of Beneficial Owner   
 Officers and Directors:   

Number of 
 Shares (1)  

Options      
Exercisable  
 Within      
  60 Days   

Percentage 
 Of Class (1)   

_________________  

(3) 
 
Includes 6,725,672 shares directly held by Mr. Tuchman; 8,668 shares held
by a pension plan f/b/o Mr. Tuchman; 46,619 shares held by a revocable
grantor trust of which Mr. Tuchman is the grantor and trustee and
Mr. Tuchman s brother is the beneficiary; 7,000 shares held by the
Tuchman Foundation; 5,797 shares representing Mr. Tuchman s 51.3%
interest in shares held by Kingstone Capital Group, LLC, a New Jersey limited
liability company; 1,500 shares held by a pension plan f/b/o
Mr. Tuchman s wife; 182,381 shares held by Princeton International
Properties, Inc., a New Jersey corporation owned by Mr. Tuchman and his
wife; and 3,037 shares held by Mr. Tuchman s wife. 

(4) 
 
Does not include Mr. Serenbetz s interest in shares held by Hickory
described in footnote (8) below. 

(5) 
 
Each of Warren L. Serenbetz, Jr., Paul H. Serenbetz, Stuart W. Serenbetz and
Clay R. Serenbetz is a son of Warren L. Serenbetz. None of
Mr. Serenbetz s sons are minors. 

(6) 
 
At the stockholder meeting on December 15, 2004, Warren L. Serenbetz, Jr. was
elected to the Board of Directors. Warren L. Serenbetz, who previously served as
a director, did not stand for re-election to the board. 

(7) 
 
Includes indirect beneficial ownership of shares held by immediate family
members. 

(8) 
 
In 1994, Hickory Enterprises, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership
( Hickory ) was formed. Warren L. Serenbetz contributed shares of the
Company s common stock in exchange for a limited partnership interest in
Hickory. Each of Warren L. Serenbetz, Jr., Stuart W. Serenbetz, Paul H.
Serenbetz and Clay R. Serenbetz contributed shares of the Company s common
stock in exchange for a general partnership and limited partnership interest in
Hickory. Each of the four general partners in Hickory has one vote in matters
before Hickory. Warren L. Serenbetz, as solely a limited partner, does not have
any voting rights or rights to participate in the management or operations of
Hickory. 

(9) 
 
Includes 117,000 shares held by an exchange fund as to which Hickory Enterprises
retains certain voting rights. 

(10) 
 
Includes 3,467,730 shares directly held by Mr. Witteveen; 101,210 shares
held by an exchange fund as to which Mr. Witteveen retains certain voting
rights; 1,500 shares of which Mr. Witteveen s wife is the record
owner; and 1,989 shares representing Mr. Witteveen s interest in
shares held by Kingstone Capital Group, LLC, a New Jersey limited liability
company. 

(12) 
 
The Warren L. Serenbetz Revocable Trust, of which Warren L. Serenbetz is the
trustee, is the record owner of these shares of the Company s common stock.
The beneficiaries of the Warren L. Serenbetz Revocable Trust are members of the
immediate family of Warren L. Serenbetz. 

(13) 
 
On February 1, 1995, Arthur L. Burns entered into an Agreement of Limited
Partnership pursuant to which Mr. Burns contributed 90,000 shares of
restricted common stock to The Chartres Limited Partnership
( Chartres ), in exchange for a 98% limited partnership interest in
Chartres. Each of Meredith K. Burns and Kristin M. Reynolds, daughters of Arthur
L. Burns, are the other limited partners and the general partners of Chartres.
Limited partners do not have any voting rights or rights to participate in the
management or operation of Chartres. 

Equity Compensation Plan
Information   

The following presents equity compensation plan information as of December
31, 2005. This table does not include shares issuable under the Deferred Bonus Plan (the
 Bonus Plan ) as outlined in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In September 2004, the Board of Directors terminated the Bonus Plan. All stock previously
granted under the Plan will continue to be subject to the terms of the Plan.   

Plan Category    
                               
Equity compensation 
plans approved by 
security holders  
 
Equity compensation 
plans not approved by 
security holders   
 
 Total 

(a) 
Number of securities to 
be issued upon exercise 
of outstanding options, 
 warrants and rights   

3,178,063   

-----     
     ________    
     3,178,063

(b) 
Weighted-average 
exercise price of 
outstanding options, 
 warrants and rights   

$11.75     

-----     
      _________   
       $11.75

(c) 
Number of securities 
remaining available for 
future issuance under 
equity compensation 
plans (excluding 
securities reflected 
 in column (a))             

1,280,000   

-----     
      ___________  
       1,280,000

For a description of these plans see Item 10 and Note 14 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans   

In March 2005, Mr. Tuchman, our Chief Executive Officer, adopted a
personal trading plan as part of a long-term strategy for asset diversification and
liquidity, in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission s Rule 10b5-1.
Under the plan, up to 153,000 shares of common stock Mr. Tuchman currently owns may be
systematically sold at market prices on sale dates beginning April 18, 2005 in daily
amounts predetermined by the plan. Mr. Tuchman s 10b5-1 plan terminates on the date
on which all the shares subject to the plan have been sold, or on April 20, 2006,
whichever occurs first.   

Rule 10b5-1 allows officers and directors, at a time when they are not in
possession of material non-public information, to adopt written plans to sell shares on a
regular basis under pre-arranged terms, regardless of any subsequent non-public
information they may receive. Sales of shares by Mr. Tuchman pursuant to the terms of the
plan will be disclosed publicly through Form 144 and Form 4 filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.   

ITEM 13. CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   

Chassis Holding I, LLC   

The Ivy Group, which is a New Jersey general partnership composed directly
or indirectly of Mr. Tuchman, Radcliff Group, Inc., Raoul J. Witteveen, Thomas P. Birnie
and Graham K. Owen, has previously leased chassis to Trac Lease. As of December 31, 2000,
pursuant to various equipment lease agreements, Trac Lease leased 6,047 chassis from The
Ivy Group and its principals for an aggregate annual lease payment of approximately $2.9
million. On January 1, 2001, the various leases for the 6,047 units were combined into a
single lease pursuant to which The Ivy Group and its principals were paid an aggregate
lease payment of approximately $2.6 million through June 30, 2001.   

Effective as of July 1, 2001, we restructured our relationship with The
Ivy Group and its principals to provide us with managerial control over these 6,047
chassis. As a result of the restructuring, the partners of The Ivy Group contributed these
6,047 chassis and certain other assets and liabilities to our newly formed subsidiary,
Chassis Holdings I, LLC, in exchange for $26.0 million face value of preferred membership
units and 10% of the common membership units, and Trac Lease contributed 902 chassis and
two thousand dollars in cash to Chassis Holdings in exchange for $3.0 million face value
of preferred membership units and 90% of the common membership units. The preferred
membership units are entitled to receive a preferred return prior to the receipt of any
distributions by the holders of the common membership units. The value of the contributed
chassis was determined by taking the arithmetic average of the results of independent
appraisals performed by three nationally recognized appraisal firms that were engaged by
us in connection with our establishment of a chassis securitization facility in July 2000.
As the managing member of Chassis Holdings, Trac Lease exercises sole managerial control
over the entity s operations. Chassis Holdings leases all of its chassis to Trac
Lease at a rental rate equal to the then current Trac Lease fleet average per diem.
Chassis Holdings and the holders of the preferred membership units are party to a Put/Call
Agreement, which provides that the holders of preferred units may put such units to
Chassis Holdings under certain circumstances and Chassis Holdings has the right to redeem
such units under certain circumstances. Chassis Holdings will be required to make certain
option payments to the holders of the preferred membership units in order to preserve its
right to redeem such units. Dividends paid on the common units and distributions on the
preferred units totaling $3.1 million, $3.1 million, and $2.9 million for 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively, are included in minority interest expense in the accompanying
consolidated statement of income.   

During 1992 through 1996, The Ivy Group borrowed $13.4 million from us.
The loan bore interest at LIBOR plus 1.75% repayable on an interest only basis, subject to
maintenance of fixed loan to collateral value ratios, and will mature in 2013. In
connection with this loan, The Ivy Group executed a Chattel Mortgage Security Agreement
and Assignment under which we were granted a security interest in 4,364 chassis owned by
The Ivy Group and we were granted an assignment of all rights to receive rental payments
and proceeds related to the lease of these chassis. This Ivy Group collateral was
contributed, subject to this debt to us of $13.4 million, to Chassis Holdings as part of
our July 1, 2001 restructuring with The Ivy Group.   

The members of the Board of Directors have unanimously determined that the
terms of all arrangements between The Ivy Group and Trac Lease, including the formation of
Chassis Holdings, were beneficial and fair to Interpool.   

The Ivy Group Guarantee
of PCR Line of Credit   

In connection with the sale of PCR in December 2001, Martin Tuchman and
Raoul Witteveen agreed in March 2002 to guarantee a pre-existing line of credit between
PCR and Yardville National Bank in the amount of $3,000,000 and the Company was released
from a guarantee it had previously executed. This guarantee was subsequently paid off
through advances made to PCR by The Ivy Group. PCR s line of credit with Yardville
National Bank was reduced to $1,666,000 in March 2002 and later increased to $2,000,000 in
September 2002. Advances amounting to $1,983,134 and $698,000 in 2002 and 2003,
respectively, were made to PCR by The Ivy Group to pay off borrowings under the line of
credit and to provide working capital. The Ivy Group is a partnership controlled by
certain current and former officers and directors of the Company. The advances made by The
Ivy Group to PCR were considered capital contributions to the Company and payments by the
Company to PCR. The payments to PCR have been determined to be uncollectible and were
expensed by the Company in 2002 and included in other (income)/expense, net. Payments made
in 2002 amounting to $1,983,134 have been included in additional paid-in-capital. The
remaining payments made in 2003 of $698,000 have been included in accounts payable and
accrued expenses at December 31, 2002 and were reclassified to additional paid-in-capital
in the period when the payments were made.   

Eurochassis L.P.
Transactions   

Eurochassis L.P., a New Jersey limited partnership in which Raoul J.
Witteveen, our former President and a major stockholder, is one of the limited partners
and the general partner, leases 100 chassis to Trac Lease, a subsidiary of Interpool.
Annual lease expense amounted to $78,000, $86,000, and $91,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The annual lease term renews automatically
unless cancelled or renewed upon renegotiated lease rate terms by either party prior to
the first day of the renewal period. The members of the Board of Directors have
unanimously determined that the terms of all arrangements between Eurochassis L.P. and
Trac Lease are beneficial and fair to the Company.   

Radcliff Consultation
Services Agreement   

We entered into a Consultation Services Agreement with Radcliff Group,
Inc. dated as of January 1, 1992, as amended and restated in February 1993, pursuant to
which Radcliff Group appointed Warren L. Serenbetz, a stockholder and director of the
Company through December 15, 2004, as Executive Consultant. The Consultation Services
Agreement was terminated as of January 1, 1995. In accordance with the terms of the
Consultation Services Agreement, following such termination Radcliff Group remained
entitled to receive its full annual consultation services fee in the amount of $492,000
through December 31, 2002 and reimbursement to both the designated Executive Consultant
and his spouse of all health related costs and expenses that were not advanced or
reimbursed to the Executive Consultant pursuant to our medical and dental insurance plans
through December 2007.   

Bank Loans   

In April 2003 and August 2003 we borrowed $16,000,000 and $7,000,000,
respectively, from Yardville National Bank, a subsidiary of an entity in which our Chief
Executive Officer owns approximately five percent of the common stock and serves on the
Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. The term of the $16,000,000 loan was three
years. Thirty-four fixed monthly principal payments of $250,000 commencing May 25, 2003
were due with a final principal payment of $7,500,000 due on March 25, 2006.
Interest, at an initial rate of 4.25%, was adjusted monthly to the prime rate as published
in the Wall Street Journal subject to a 4% minimum and 5% maximum per annum rate.   

The term of the $7,000,000 loan was five years. Fifty-nine fixed monthly
principal payments of $75,000 commencing September 7, 2003 were due with a final principal
payment of $2,575,000 due on August 7, 2008. Interest, at an initial rate of 4% was
adjusted monthly to the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal subject to a 4%
minimum and 6% maximum per annum rate.   

In September 2000, Yardville National Bank provided a revolving line of
credit to the Company. The line of credit was initially $9,750,000 and was secured by
equipment and the related leases. The interest rate was Yardville National Bank s
base interest rate minus 0.5%. The Company utilized a portion of this facility from
inception through April 2002 when the loan balance was paid and the facility ended.   

In connection with our borrowings from Yardville National Bank, our Board
of Directors unanimously determined that the interest rate and other terms of such
borrowings were at least as favorable to us as could have been obtained in an
arms -length transaction with an unrelated third party.   

In addition to our borrowings from Yardville National Bank, beginning in
May 2000 Yardville National Bank provided a revolving line of credit to our subsidiary
PCR. The line of credit was initially $2,500,000 and was increased to $5,000,000 in July
2000 (upon termination of a similar line of credit provided to our subsidiary Microtech).
The interest rate was Yardville National Bank s base interest rate minus 0.5%.
Advances under this line of credit were secured by a first lien on PCR s business
assets. In connection with our sale of our interest in PCR in December 2001, Yardville
National Bank released its security interest in PCR s assets and reduced the amount
of the line to $3,000,000. At the same time, we provided a guarantee of this line of
credit on PCR s behalf. In March 2002, the amount of the credit line was further
reduced to approximately $1,650,000, the balance then outstanding, and, at our request,
Yardville National Bank terminated our guarantee and accepted in lieu thereof a guarantee
from certain of our officers and directors. The PCR line of credit was renewed and
increased to $2,000,000 in September 2002.   

During November 2004, all outstanding borrowings from Yardville National
bank were paid in full.   

Fathom Co., LTD Agency
Fees   

We paid Fathom Co., LTD ( Fathom ), our local representative in
Taiwan, $116,400 for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 to represent
us with the Taiwan depots that store and repair damaged containers and to provide customer
support. Fathom is owned by a Regional Vice President of Interpool Limited (who is not an
executive officer of the Company) and members of his family. Management has determined
that the fee for these services between Fathom and Interpool Limited were beneficial and
fair to the Company. The arrangement with Fathom was terminated as of February 28,
2006. Effective March 1, 2006, the services previously provided by Fathom were
undertaken by a Taiwan branch office of a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.   

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   

Accounting Fees and
Services   

The following table sets forth the aggregate fees billed to the Company by KPMG
for professional services rendered for the fiscal year ended December 31 of the year
indicated:   

_________________  

(1)          
          Includes services relating to audit of the annual consolidated financial
          statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, the review of interim
          financial information included in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and the
          audit of internal controls over financial reporting.  

  (2)          
"Audit-Related Fees" include fees paid for the professional services rendered in
connection with SEC filings.  

All fees described above under Audit-Related Fees and Tax Fees
were approved by our Audit Committee or by the chairman of our Audit Committee.   

All Other Fees   

There were no fees billed by our independent auditors during the years
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 for products and services, other than the services
rendered in connection with the audit of the annual consolidated financial statements
included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, the review of interim financial information
included in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and services primarily related to
consultation on tax planning matters.   

Relationship with
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

In accordance with policies adopted by our Audit Committee, all non-audit
related services to be performed by our independent registered public accounting firm must
be approved in advance by our Audit Committee or by the chairman of our Audit Committee.
However, no pre-approval is required with respect to the provision of a non-audit service
if (i) the aggregate amount of all non-audit services constitutes not more than 5% of the
total amount of revenues we have provided to the auditors during the fiscal year in which
the non-audit services are provided; (ii) we did not recognize such services at the time
of the engagement to be non-audit services; and (iii) such services are promptly brought
to the attention of our Audit Committee and approved prior to the completion of the audit
by our Audit Committee or the chairman of our Audit Committee.   

PART IV   

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

(a)(1) FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   

INTERPOOL, INC.    

Report of Independent Public Accountants 
Consolidated Balance Sheets At December 31, 2005 and 2004 
Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity for the
Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

(a)(2) FINANCIAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  

All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable
regulations of the Commission are not required under the related instructions or are
inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.   

(a)(3) EXHIBITS   

3.1 

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (incorporated herein by
reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No.
33-59498)). 

3.2 

Form of Restated Bylaws of the Company (incorporated herein by reference
to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No. 33-59498)). 

4.1 

Form of Certificate representing the Common Stock (incorporated herein by
reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No.
33-59498)). 

4.2 

Form of Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee,
relating to the 9.25% Convertible Redeemable Subordinated Debentures
(incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on
Form S-1 (Reg. No. 333-86370)). 

4.3 

Form of First Supplemental Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New
York, as trustee, relating to the 9.25% Convertible Redeemable Subordinated
Debentures (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Registration
Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No. 333-86370)). 

4.4 

Indenture between the Company and United States Trust Company of New York, as
Trustee, related to the 7.35% Notes dated July 29, 1997 (incorporated herein by
reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed July 29, 1997). 

4.5 

Indenture between the Company and United States Trust Company of New York, as
trustee, related to the 7.20% Notes, dated August 5, 1997 (incorporated herein
by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Reg. No.
333-38705)).

4.6 

Indenture between the Company and IBJ Schroeder Bank   Trust Company, as
Trustee, related to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities dated January 27,
1997 (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form
10-K for the period ended December 31, 1996). 

4.7 

First Supplemental Indenture between the Company and IBJ Schroeder Bank   Trust
Company, as Trustee, related to the 9-7/8% Series A and Series B Junior
Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures dated January 27, 1997 (incorporated
herein by reference to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
period ended December 31, 1996). 

10.1 

Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 1992 by and between Martin Tuchman
and the Company (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Registration
Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No. 33-59498)). 

10.2 

Employment Agreement dated as of October 1, 2004 by and between Herbert Mertz
and the Company (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2004) 

10.4 

Employment Agreement dated as of July 1, 2004 by and between Arthur L. Burns and
the Company (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2003). 

10.5 

Employment Agreement dated as of July 1, 2004 by and between James F. Walsh and
the Company (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2003). 

10.7 

Employment Agreement dated as of July 1, 2004 by and between Richard W. Gross
and the Company (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2003). 

10.9 

Cancellation of Stock Appreciation Rights dated as of November 18, 2005 from the
Company and confirmed and accepted by James F. Walsh. 

10.10 

Cancellation of Stock Appreciation Rights dated as of November 18, 2005 from the
Company and confirmed and accepted by Arthur L. Burns. 

10.11 

Cancellation of Stock Appreciation Rights dated as of November 18, 2005 from the
Company and confirmed and accepted by Richard W. Gross. 

10.12 

Consultation Services Agreement dated as of January 1, 1992 by and between
Radcliff Group and the Company (incorporated herein by reference to the
Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No. 33-59498)). 

10.16 

Indemnity Agreement between the Company and other directors (incorporated herein
by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No.
33-59498)). 

10.22 

Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of September 14, 2004 among the Company
and Greywolf Capital Partners II, LP, Greywolf Capital Overseas Fund, Greywolf
High Yield Masters Fund, Caspian Capital Partners, LP, Mariner LDC, Mariner
Opportunities Fund, LP, Mariner Voyager Master Fund LTD, Riva Ridge Master Fund,
LTD, Goldman, Sachs   Co. (incorporated by reference to the Company's report on
Form 8-K filed on September 15, 2004). 

10.24 

Notes Registration Rights Agreement dated as of September 14, 2004 among the
Company and Greywolf Capital Partners II, LP, Greywolf Capital Overseas Fund,
Greywolf High Yield Masters Fund, Caspian Capital Partners, LP, Mariner LDC,
Mariner Opportunities Fund, LP, Mariner Voyager Master Fund LTD, Riva Ridge
Master Fund, LTD, Goldman, Sachs   Co. (incorporated by reference to the
Company's report on Form 8-K filed on September 15, 2004). 

10.25 

Investor Rights Agreement dated as of September 14, 2004 among the Company and
Greywolf Capital Partners II, LP, Greywolf Capital Overseas Fund, Greywolf High
Yield Masters Fund, Caspian Capital Partners, LP, Mariner LDC, Mariner
Opportunities Fund, LP, Mariner Voyager Master Fund LTD, Riva Ridge Master Fund,
LTD, Goldman, Sachs   Co. (incorporated by reference to the Company's report on
Form 8-K filed on September 15, 2004). 

10.27 

Form of Note Purchase Agreement dated as of November 29, 2004 among the Company
and eight institutional investors (incorporated by reference to the Company's
report on Form 8-K filed on December 2, 2004). 

10.28 

Form of Notes Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 29, 2004
between the Company and eight institutional investors (incorporated by reference
to the Company's report on Form 8-K filed on December 2, 2004). 

10.31 

Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of December 29, 2004 among Interpool
Limited, DVB Bank N.V. and the Lenders named therein (incorporated herein by
reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2004). 

10.33 

Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 15, 2005 among
Interpool Container Funding, SRL, the Company, Fortis Bank (Netherlands) N.V.
and the Lenders named therein (incorporated by reference to the Company's report
on Form 8-K filed March 23, 2005). 

10.34 

Third Amended and Restated Servicing Agreement dated as of March 15, 2005
between Interpool Limited and Interpool Container Funding, SRL (incorporated by
reference to the Company's report on Form 8-K filed March 23, 2005). 

10.38 

Amendment, dated as of April 26, 2005, to Investor Rights Agreement dated as of
September 14, 2004, by and among the Company and Greywolf Capital Partners II,
LP, Greywolf Capital Overseas Fund, Greywolf High Yield Masters Fund, Caspian
Capital Partners, LP, Mariner LDC, Mariner Opportunities Fund, LP, Mariner
Voyager Master Fund LTD, Riva Ridge Master Fund, LTD, Goldman, Sachs   Co.
(incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the period ended March 31, 2005). 

10.41 

Second Amendment dated as of June 29, 2005, to Investor Rights Agreement dated
as of September 14, 2004, by and among the Company and Greywolf Capital Partners
II, LP, Greywolf Capital Overseas Fund, Greywolf High Yield Masters Fund,
Caspian Capital Partners, LP, Mariner LDC, Mariner Opportunities Fund, LP,
Mariner Voyager Master Fund LTD, Riva Ridge Master Fund, LTD, Goldman, Sachs  
Co. (incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
July 6, 2005). 

10.47 

Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of April 28, 2005 by and among CAI, Bank of
America, N.A., as administrative agent, Banc of America Securities LLC, as lead
arranger and book manager, LaSalle Bank National Association, as Syndication
Agent, Union Bank of California, N.A., as co-agent and the lenders named
therein. 

10.49 

Credit and Security Agreement dated September 9, 2005, by and among Interpool,
Inc. and TRAC Lease, Inc., as the Borrowers, the lenders named therein, and
National City Bank, as Agent 

10.50 

Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2005, among Interpool Container
Funding II, SRL, as the Borrower, the Company, as the Parent Guarantor, Fortis
Capital Corp., as the Agent and the lenders named herein. 

10.52 

Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2005, among Interpool Containers
Limited, as the Borrower, the Company, as the Parent Guarantor, Interpool
Limited, DVB Bank N.V., as the Agent and the lenders named therein. 

10.54 

Sale Agreement dated as of March 14, 2006 by and among Interpool Containers
Limited, Interpool, Inc. and P   R Equipment and Finance Corp. 

12.1 

Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

14.1 

Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (incorporated herein by reference to the
Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2002). 

23.1 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

31.1 

Certification of Martin Tuchman. 

32.1 

Certification of Martin Tuchman. 

(b) Financial Statement
Schedules   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Supplementary
Information. 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
Supplementary Information   

The Board of Directors 
Interpool, Inc.:  

We have audited and reported separately herein on the consolidated balance
sheets of Interpool, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the
related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders  equity and cash
flows for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2005. In
connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we
also audited the related consolidated financial statement Schedule II included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on this consolidated financial statement schedule based on our audits.   

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.   

(Signed) KPMG LLP   

Short Hills, N.J. 
March 31, 2006  

INTERPOOL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 
 
ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS 
 
 (in thousands)    

SIGNATURES    

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

INTERPOOL, INC. 
(Registrant) 

March 31, 2006 
 
By  /s/ Martin Tuchman

Martin Tuchman 
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President, 
Chief Operating Officer, and Director (Principal Executive Officer) 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.   

March 31, 2006 
 
By   /s/ Martin Tuchman

Martin Tuchman 
Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, President,
Chief Operating Officer and Director 

March 31, 2006 
 
By  /s/ Arthur L. Burns

Arthur L. Burns 
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Director 

March 31, 2006 
 
By   /s/ James F. Walsh

James F. Walsh 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

March 31, 2006 
 
By   /s/ Brian Tracey

Brian Tracey 
Senior Vice President 
(Chief Accounting Officer) 

EXHIBIT INDEX    

3.1 

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (incorporated herein by
reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No.
33-59498)). 

3.2 

Form of Restated Bylaws of the Company (incorporated herein by reference
to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No. 33-59498)). 

4.1 

Form of Certificate representing the Common Stock (incorporated herein by
reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No.
33-59498)). 

4.2 

Form of Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee,
relating to the 9.25% Convertible Redeemable Subordinated Debentures
(incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on
Form S-1 (Reg. No. 333-86370)). 

4.3 

Form of First Supplemental Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New
York, as trustee, relating to the 9.25% Convertible Redeemable Subordinated
Debentures (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Registration
Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No. 333-86370)). 

4.4 

Indenture between the Company and United States Trust Company of New York, as
Trustee, related to the 7.35% Notes dated July 29, 1997 (incorporated herein by
reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed July 29, 1997). 

4.5 

Indenture between the Company and United States Trust Company of New York, as
trustee, related to the 7.20% Notes, dated August 5, 1997 (incorporated herein
by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Reg. No.
333-38705)).

4.6 

Indenture between the Company and IBJ Schroeder Bank   Trust Company, as
Trustee, related to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities dated January 27,
1997 (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form
10-K for the period ended December 31, 1996). 

4.7 

First Supplemental Indenture between the Company and IBJ Schroeder Bank   Trust
Company, as Trustee, related to the 9-7/8% Series A and Series B Junior
Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures dated January 27, 1997 (incorporated
herein by reference to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
period ended December 31, 1996). 

10.1 

Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 1992 by and between Martin Tuchman
and the Company (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Registration
Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No. 33-59498)). 

10.2 

Employment Agreement dated as of October 1, 2004 by and between Herbert Mertz
and the Company (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2004) 

10.4 

Employment Agreement dated as of July 1, 2004 by and between Arthur L. Burns and
the Company (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2003). 

10.5 

Employment Agreement dated as of July 1, 2004 by and between James F. Walsh and
the Company (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2003). 

10.7 

Employment Agreement dated as of July 1, 2004 by and between Richard W. Gross
and the Company (incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2003). 

10.9 

Cancellation of Stock Appreciation Rights dated as of November 18, 2005 from the
Company and confirmed and accepted by James F. Walsh. 

10.10 

Cancellation of Stock Appreciation Rights dated as of November 18, 2005 from the
Company and confirmed and accepted by Arthur L. Burns. 

10.11 

Cancellation of Stock Appreciation Rights dated as of November 18, 2005 from the
Company and confirmed and accepted by Richard W. Gross. 

10.12 

Consultation Services Agreement dated as of January 1, 1992 by and between
Radcliff Group and the Company (incorporated herein by reference to the
Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No. 33-59498)). 

10.16 

Indemnity Agreement between the Company and other directors (incorporated herein
by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No.
33-59498)). 

10.22 

Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of September 14, 2004 among the Company
and Greywolf Capital Partners II, LP, Greywolf Capital Overseas Fund, Greywolf
High Yield Masters Fund, Caspian Capital Partners, LP, Mariner LDC, Mariner
Opportunities Fund, LP, Mariner Voyager Master Fund LTD, Riva Ridge Master Fund,
LTD, Goldman, Sachs   Co. (incorporated by reference to the Company's report on
Form 8-K filed on September 15, 2004). 

10.24 

Notes Registration Rights Agreement dated as of September 14, 2004 among the
Company and Greywolf Capital Partners II, LP, Greywolf Capital Overseas Fund,
Greywolf High Yield Masters Fund, Caspian Capital Partners, LP, Mariner LDC,
Mariner Opportunities Fund, LP, Mariner Voyager Master Fund LTD, Riva Ridge
Master Fund, LTD, Goldman, Sachs   Co. (incorporated by reference to the
Company's report on Form 8-K filed on September 15, 2004). 

10.25 

Investor Rights Agreement dated as of September 14, 2004 among the Company and
Greywolf Capital Partners II, LP, Greywolf Capital Overseas Fund, Greywolf High
Yield Masters Fund, Caspian Capital Partners, LP, Mariner LDC, Mariner
Opportunities Fund, LP, Mariner Voyager Master Fund LTD, Riva Ridge Master Fund,
LTD, Goldman, Sachs   Co. (incorporated by reference to the Company's report on
Form 8-K filed on September 15, 2004). 

10.27 

Form of Note Purchase Agreement dated as of November 29, 2004 among the Company
and eight institutional investors (incorporated by reference to the Company's
report on Form 8-K filed on December 2, 2004). 

10.28 

Form of Notes Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 29, 2004
between the Company and eight institutional investors (incorporated by reference
to the Company's report on Form 8-K filed on December 2, 2004). 

10.31 

Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of December 29, 2004 among Interpool
Limited, DVB Bank N.V. and the Lenders named therein (incorporated herein by
reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2004). 

10.33 

Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 15, 2005 among
Interpool Container Funding, SRL, the Company, Fortis Bank (Netherlands) N.V.
and the Lenders named therein (incorporated by reference to the Company's report
on Form 8-K filed March 23, 2005). 

10.34 

Third Amended and Restated Servicing Agreement dated as of March 15, 2005
between Interpool Limited and Interpool Container Funding, SRL (incorporated by
reference to the Company's report on Form 8-K filed March 23, 2005). 

10.38 

Amendment, dated as of April 26, 2005, to Investor Rights Agreement dated as of
September 14, 2004, by and among the Company and Greywolf Capital Partners II,
LP, Greywolf Capital Overseas Fund, Greywolf High Yield Masters Fund, Caspian
Capital Partners, LP, Mariner LDC, Mariner Opportunities Fund, LP, Mariner
Voyager Master Fund LTD, Riva Ridge Master Fund, LTD, Goldman, Sachs   Co.
(incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the period ended March 31, 2005). 

10.41 

Second Amendment dated as of June 29, 2005, to Investor Rights Agreement dated
as of September 14, 2004, by and among the Company and Greywolf Capital Partners
II, LP, Greywolf Capital Overseas Fund, Greywolf High Yield Masters Fund,
Caspian Capital Partners, LP, Mariner LDC, Mariner Opportunities Fund, LP,
Mariner Voyager Master Fund LTD, Riva Ridge Master Fund, LTD, Goldman, Sachs  
Co. (incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
July 6, 2005). 

10.47 

Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of April 28, 2005 by and among CAI, Bank of
America, N.A., as administrative agent, Banc of America Securities LLC, as lead
arranger and book manager, LaSalle Bank National Association, as Syndication
Agent, Union Bank of California, N.A., as co-agent and the lenders named
therein. 

10.49 

Credit and Security Agreement dated September 9, 2005, by and among Interpool,
Inc. and TRAC Lease, Inc., as the Borrowers, the lenders named therein, and
National City Bank, as Agent 

10.50 

Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2005, among Interpool Container
Funding II, SRL, as the Borrower, the Company, as the Parent Guarantor, Fortis
Capital Corp., as the Agent and the lenders named herein. 

10.52 

Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2005, among Interpool Containers
Limited, as the Borrower, the Company, as the Parent Guarantor, Interpool
Limited, DVB Bank N.V., as the Agent and the lenders named therein. 

10.54 

Sale Agreement dated as of March 14, 2006 by and among Interpool Containers
Limited, Interpool, Inc. and P   R Equipment and Finance Corp. 

12.1 

Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

14.1 

Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (incorporated herein by reference to the
Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2002). 

23.1 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

31.1 

Certification of Martin Tuchman. 

32.1 

Certification of Martin Tuchman. 

<EX-10>
 2
 interpool-ex108_030906.htm
 EX-10.8

Ex-10.8  

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT   

THIS AGREEMENT is made effective this
5th day of June, 1992 by and between:   

INTERPOOL
LIMITED, a Barbados Corporation with its executive offices located at 211 College Road
East, Princeton, New Jersey 08540; and   

WILLIAM GEOGHAN (the  Executive ) with an
address at 104 Johnstone Drive, Pennington, New Jersey 08534  

   W I T N E S S E T H:   

WHEREAS,
the Company desires to employ the Executive, and the Executive desires to be employed by
the Company, upon and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth:   

NOW
THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises hereinafter set forth, the parties
hereto, intending to be legally bound, contract and agree as follows:   

1.  
          ACCEPTANCE AND EMPLOYMENT. The Company hereby employs the Executive and the
          Executive accepts and agrees to such employment upon and subject to the terms
          and conditions set forth herein.   

2.  
          PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT: The Executive shall be employed by the Company and perform
          all services required hereunder at the Company office located at 211 College
          Road East, Princeton, New Jersey or at such other location, which location shall
          not be further than twenty five miles from said office, as the Company shall
          designate. The Executive recognizes that travel may be necessary to the
          performance of his duties hereunder. The Company agrees that the Company shall
          not require overnight travel in excess of thirty nights per year.   

3.  
          TERM: The term of this Agreement shall commence upon the signing by all parties
          and shall, if neither extended nor terminated in accordance herewith, continue
          for a period of three (3) years.   

4.  
          RENEWAL: On each and every annual anniversary date hereof, this Agreement shall,
          without further action by the parties, renew for an additional one year period
          unless and until the Company shall notify the Executive in writing of its
          intention not to renew this Agreement beyond the then current term. Said notice
          shall be in writing and delivered to the Executive not less than thirty (30)
          days prior to the renewal date.   

5.  
          AUTHORITY AND DUTIES: During the term hereof, the Executive shall be the
          Controller of the Company and shall have responsibility and correlative
          authority in respect to all phases of the Company s accounting and related
          affairs, subject only to the superior authority, direction and control of the
          Company s President and Chief Executive Officer. During the Employment
          Period, the Executive shall devote his entire time, attention, energies, skill
          and abilities, during usual business hours and at such other or additional times
          as may reasonably be required or as the Executive s duties and
          responsibilities may occasionally necessitate in carrying out his duties and
          responsibilities.   

6.  
          COMPENSATION: As compensation for all services to be rendered by the Executive
          hereunder during the Employment Period, the Company shall pay to the Executive
          in respect of each calendar year or portion thereof during the Employment Period
          a salary at the rate of Seventy Three Thousand Five Hundred ($73,500.00) Dollars
          per year, in equal biweekly installments. All salary shall be subject to
          withholding and all other applicable taxes. Any increase in compensation for
          renewal periods shall be subject to approval by the Board of Directors.   

7.  
          SUPPORT SERVICES, FACILITIES AND REIMBURSEMENT: The Company shall provide the
          Executive with such office facilities and stenographic or secretarial services
          as his duties and authority may reasonably require. The Executive may incur
          additional expenses during the Employment Period in connection with his duties
          and responsibilities to the Company and for the promotion of its business, or
          for entertainment, travel and other purposes directly related to the
          Company's business, and the Company will reimburse the Executive for such
          of his additional expenses as are reasonable. Reimbursement shall be made
          subject to appropriately detailed explanations of and accounting for such
          reimbursement of expenses.   

8.  
          HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE: The Executive shall be entitled to participate in any
          health insurance, life insurance or other plans or programs which may now be in
          effect or which may hereinafter be adopted, under the same terms of
          participation as shall be offered to the general employment force of the
          Company.   

9.  
          VACATION: The Executive shall be entitled to vacation of four (4) weeks per year
          without reduction in compensation.   

10.  
          NONCOMPETITION:   

(a)  
          The Executive covenants and agrees:   

(i)  
          That he will not knowingly divulge any material or confidential proprietary
          matters of the Company which are not otherwise in the public domain, including,
          without limitation, financial records, trade secrets, business plans, pricing
          policies, and customer lists, except as required in the course of performing
          duties hereunder or as required by law, regulation or judicial or other legal
          process, either during or after the termination of employment by the Company;   

(ii)  
          That he will deliver promptly to the Company on termination of his employment by
          the Company, at the Company's expense, all memoranda, notes, records,
          reports and other documents, and all copies thereof, relating to the business of
          the Company which he obtained while employed by, or otherwise serving or acting
          on behalf of, the Company, and which he may then possess or have under his
          control;   

(iii)  
          That during the Employment Period, the Executive, alone or together with any
          other person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity whatsoever, except
          any subsidiaries or affiliates of the company, directly or indirectly, whether
          as an officer, director, stockholder, partner, proprietor, associate, employee,
          representative, landlord, sublandlord, public relations or advertising
          representative, management consultant or otherwise, will not engage in, or
          become or be interested in or associated with, any other person, corporation,
          firm, partnership or other entity whatsoever engaged in a business in which the
          Company shall then be engaged in or in which the Company within the preceding
          twelve (12) months engaged in or at any time during such period was the subject
          of a formal business proposal which the Company was actively considering.   

(b).  
          With respect to employment after termination of the Executive's employment
          with the Company:   

(i)  
          Throughout his employment and for a period of two (2) years after termination of
          his employment, he will not directly or indirectly, induce or attempt to
          influence any employee of the Company to leave its employ; aid or agree to aid
          any competitor, customer or supplier of the Company in any attempt to hire any
          person who shall have been employed by the Company within the 365 day period
          next preceding such requested aid; induce or attempt to influence any person or
          business entity who was a customer or supplier of the Company during any portion
          of said period to transact business with a competitor of the Company; or
          participate in planning for or accept any employment or any other association
          with any company which then employs more than two former employees of Company
          within the 365 day period next preceding his termination of employment with the
          Company without the prior written consent of the Company.   

(ii)  
          Notwithstanding the provisions of clauses above, the Executive may own, as an
          inactive investor, securities of any corporation listed on a national securities
          exchange or regularly traded in the over-the-counter market, so long as his
          beneficial ownership in any one such corporation shall not in the aggregate constitute
          more than five percent (5%) of any class of equity securities of such corporation.  

11.   REMEDIES FOR BREACH: The Executive agrees that the
remedy at law for any breach or threatened breach of any covenant contained in
Section 10 will be inadequate and that the Company, in addition to such other remedies as may be
available to it in law or in equity, shall be entitled to institute proceedings
in any court or courts of competent jurisdiction to obtain damages for breach of
this Agreement and permanent injunctive relief without bond or other security.
The parties further agree that the Company shall be entitled to apply to any
court having jurisdiction for temporary injunctive relief pending permanent
injunctive relief in arbitration.   

12.  
          DISABILITY. If the Board of Directors of the Company shall, upon medical advice,
          determine that, by reason of physical or mental illness or injury, continuing
          for ninety (90) or more days in any period of six (6) consecutive calendar
          months, the Executive has been substantially unable to render the services that
          he performed prior to such illness or injury, then after his absence or impaired
          ability for such period ( Disability ), the Executive s
          employment and compensation hereunder shall cease as of the first day following
          such period. The Board of Directors of the Company may from time to time in its
          sole discretion authorize the payment of compensation to the Executive in the
          event of Disability.   

13.  
          DEATH: Upon the death of the Executive, this Agreement shall terminate and
          neither the estate nor the survivors and heirs of the Executive shall be
          entitled to any continuing compensation hereunder.   

14.   TERMINATION FOR CAUSE. In
case of (i) any fraudulent or illegal conduct by the Executive, or (ii) the
Executive's willful failure to perform his services hereunder continuing
for more than ten (10) days after written notice by the Company to the
Executive, which shall specify in reasonable detail the details of such failure,
or (iii) the Executive's refusal to comply with reasonable directions of
the Company President and Chief Executive Officer not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, to perform after written notice by the Company to
the Executive which shall specify in reasonable detail the details of such
failure, the Company may forthwith summarily terminate the Executive's
employment hereunder and his employment and compensation shall cease accordingly
but without prejudice to any other rights and remedies of the Company under this
Agreement or otherwise.   

15.  
          ARBITRATION: (a) Except as otherwise provided herein, any controversy
          arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any modification or extension
          thereof, including any claim for damages and/or rescission, shall
          be settled by arbitration before a panel of three arbitrators in New Jersey in
          accordance with the then current rules of the American Arbitration Association.   

(b)  
          The parties consent to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New
          Jersey for all purposes in connection with arbitration, including the entry of
          judgment on any award; and consent that any process, notice, motion or other
          application to either of said courts, and any papers in connection with
          arbitration, may be served by registered or certified mail, return receipt
          requested, by personal services, or in such other manner as may be permissible
          under the rules of the applicable court or arbitration tribunal, provided a
          reasonable time for appearance is allowed.   

(c)  
          The arbitrators shall have no power to alter or modify any express provision of
          this Agreement, or to render an award which has the effect of altering or
          modifying any express provision hereof, provided, however, that any application
          for reformation of this Agreement shall be made to the arbitrators and not to
          any Court, and the arbitrators shall empowered to determine whether valid
          grounds for reformation exist.   

(d)  
          Arbitration proceedings must be instituted by any party hereto within one year
          after the claimed breach occurred, and such party s failure to institute
          arbitration proceedings within such period shall constitute an absolute bar to
          the institution of any proceedings by such party and a waiver of such claimed
          breach. Notwithstanding any law or rule to the contrary, the determination of
          whether said one-year period has expired shall be made by the Court and shall
          not be within the jurisdiction of the arbitrators.   

16.  
          WAIVER: No delay on the part of the Company in the exercise or enforcement of
          any of the terms herein shall operate as a waiver of the right to proceed
          thereunder nor shall any single or partial exercise by the Company preclude
          other or further exercise thereof.   

17.  
          SEVERABILITY AND ENFORCABILITY: If any covenant contained in this Agreement, is
          hereafter construed to be invalid or unenforceable, by reason of the extent,
          duration or scope thereof, or otherwise, then the court or arbitrators making
          such determination shall have the right to reduce such extent, duration, scope
          or other provisions hereof, and in their reduced form such restrictions and
          provisions shall then be enforceable in the manner contemplated hereby.   

18.  
          SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS: This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the
          benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company and the Executive's
          heirs and legal representatives. This Agreement and the rights, obligations,
          interest and benefits of the Executive hereunder shall not, however, be subject
          to voluntary or involuntary assignment, transfer, pledge, hypothecation or other
          form of alienation or disposition, directly or indirectly, without the prior
          written consent of the Company, and any such unauthorized assignment or transfer
          shall be null and void.   

19.  
          MODIFICATION AND WAIVER: No modification or waiver of any of the provisions
          herein contained shall be binding upon either of the parties hereto unless made
          in writing and signed by the Executive and countersigned on behalf of the
          Company by a duly authorized officer thereof. This Agreement contains the entire
          understanding between the parties hereto, and there are merged herein all prior,
          contemporaneous and collateral covenants, representations, undertakings and
          conditions made in connection with the subject matter hereof.   

20.  
          COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each
          of which shall be deemed an original instrument, but all of such counterparts
          shall constitute but one and the same Agreement.   

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed in its corporate
name by its officer, hereunto duly authorized, and the Executive has executed this
Agreement, intending to be legally bound hereby, on or as of the date first above set
forth.   

Witness: 

INTERPOOL LIMITED 

By: Martin Tuchman 
       Chief Executive Officer 

WILLIAM GEOGHAN 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 3
 interpool-ex109_030906.htm
 EX-10.9

Exhibit 10.9 

Mr. James F. Walsh 
Interpool, Inc. 
211 College Road East 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540  

RE: Cancellation of Stock Appreciation Rights  

Dear Mr. Walsh:  

This letter agreement (this
  Agreement  ) confirms the agreement between Interpool, Inc.
(the   Company  ) and you to cancel the stock appreciation rights
(the   SARs  ) granted to you pursuant to Section 6(f) of your
employment agreement with the Company, dated as of July 1, 2004 (the
  Employment Agreement  ), in exchange for the grant of a stock
option under the 2004 Stock Option Plan for Key Employees and Directors of
Interpool, Inc. (the   2004 Stock Option Plan  ) and payments of
cash to be made by the Company in the future.   

1.    Capitalized
Terms . All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the
meaning as set forth in the Employment Agreement.   

2.    Term . This
Agreement shall be effective as of November 18, 2005 (the   Effective
Date  ) and shall continue in effect until each  Cash Payment 
(as set forth in Paragraph 4 below) has been paid to you.   

3.    Cancellation of
Stock Appreciation Rights . You hereby agree to the cancellation of the SARs
effective as of the Effective Date, in exchange for the Cash Payments and the
 Option  (as set forth in Paragraph 5 below) (the   SARs
Cancellation  ). In addition, you hereby agree that Section 6(f) of the
Employment Agreement is superseded by the terms of this Agreement, and that
effective as of the Effective Date, Section 6(f) of the Employment Agreement
shall be deleted and of no further force or effect.   

4.    Cash Payments .
You shall be entitled to receive the following lump sum cash payments: (i) on or
prior to December 31, 2005, an amount equal to the estimated amount of income
and employment taxes expected to be imposed upon you for calendar year 2005 in
connection with the SARs Cancellation (the   Tax Payment   and
(ii) on or prior to June 30, 2006, an amount equal to (A) $118,000.00, minus (B)
the amount of the Tax Payment, to the extent it has already been paid to you
(together with the Tax Payment, the   Cash Payments  ).

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if prior to
the payment of a Cash Payment, any of the following events shall occur, you
shall become entitled to receive the Cash Payment as soon as practicable after
the occurrence of such event: (i) your employment with the Company is terminated
by the Company without Cause, by you for Good Reason, or due to your Disability
or death; (ii) a Going Private Transaction, provided you are employed by the
Company as of the effective date of such Going Private Transaction; or (iii) a
Change of Control, provided you are employed by the Company as of the effective
date of such Change of Control.   

5.    Stock Option . In
addition, effective as of the Effective Date, you shall be granted a
nonqualified stock option (the   Option  ), pursuant to the 2004
Stock Option Plan, to purchase 25,000 shares of common stock of the Company at
an exercise price equal to $18.77 (i.e., the  Fair Market Value  (as
defined in the 2004 Stock Option Plan) of the Company s common stock as of
the Effective Date). The Option shall be immediately vested and exercisable with
respect to 5,000 shares, and shall vest and become exercisable with respect to
an 11,666 shares as of December 31, 2005 and with respect to 8,334 shares as of
December 31, 2006, provided, that in each case, you are still employed by the
Company as of such date.   

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Option
shall, to the extent not then exercisable, become immediately exercisable in
full upon the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) your employment
with the Company is terminated by the Company without Cause, by you for Good
Reason, or by reason of your Disability or death; (ii) a Going Private
Transaction, provided you are employed by the Company as of the effective date
of such Going Private Transaction; or (iii) a Change of Control, provided you
are employed by the Company as of the effective date of such Change of Control.

The Option, to the extent exercisable, shall
remain exercisable until the earlier to occur of (i) July 1, 2014, and (ii) 10
business days following the termination of your employment with the Company for
any reason other than by the Company without Cause, by you for Good Reason, or
due to your Disability.   

Except as specifically set forth herein, the
terms of the Option shall be governed by the 2004 Stock Option Plan.   

6.    Withholding . All
payments required to be made by the Company to you pursuant to this Agreement
shall be subject to the withholding of such amounts relating to taxes and other
governmental assessments as the Company may reasonably determine it should
withhold pursuant to any applicable law, rule or regulation.   

7.    This Agreement is not
an Employment Contract . This Agreement does not create or imply a fixed term
of employment or a guarantee of continued employment. The terms of your
employment with the Company shall be solely governed by the Employment
Agreement.   

8.    No Implied
Rights . This Agreement shall be unfunded, and all payments provided for
under this Agreement shall be paid to you in cash from the general funds of the
Company. The Company shall not be required to establish any special or separate
fund, or to make any other segregation of assets, to assure payment of any
amounts hereunder and, if the Company shall make any investments to aid it in
meeting its obligations hereunder, you shall have no right, title, or interest
whatever in or to any such investments. Nothing contained in this Agreement, and
no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to
create a trust or fiduciary relationship of any kind between the Company and
you. To the extent that you become entitled to receive a payment from the
Company hereunder, such right shall be no greater than the right of a general
unsecured creditor of the Company.   

9.    No Assignment of
Payments . Your rights to any payments hereunder are not subject in any
manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge,
encumbrance, attachment or garnishment by your creditors. If, notwithstanding
the preceding sentence, by reason of any attempted assignment, transfer, pledge
or encumbrance, or any bankruptcy or other event happening at any time, any
amount payable to you under this Agreement would be made subject to your debts
or liabilities, then the Company, if it so elects, may terminate your right to
receive any such payment.   

10.    Entire
Agreement . This Agreement, the Employment Agreement and the 2004 Stock
Option Plan constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to
the subject matter hereof, and this Agreement may not be changed orally but only
by an agreement in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of any
waiver, change, modification or discharge is sought.   

11.    Severability . In
case any provision in this Agreement shall be declared invalid, illegal or
unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, the validity and
enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or
impaired thereby.   

12.    Company
Obligations . This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company and its
successors and assigns.   

13.    Fees and
Expenses . In the event of any legal action or arbitration proceeding to
enforce any right provided by this Agreement, the Company and you shall each
bear their own legal fees and expenses.   

14.    Governing Law .
This Agreement and its validity, construction and performance shall be governed
in all respects by the internal laws of the State of New Jersey without giving
effect to any principles of conflict of laws.   

15.    Headings . The
headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not
control or affect the meaning or construction of this Agreement.   

If the foregoing accurately reflects your
understanding of our agreement, please sign a copy of this Agreement and return
it to the Company.   

Very truly yours, 
 
INTERPOOL, INC. 

By:               

Name: 
       Title: 

CONFIRMED AND ACCEPTED 

James F. Walsh  

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 4
 interpool-ex1010_030906.htm
 EX-10.10

Exhibit 10.10 

INTERPOOL, INC. 
211 College Road East 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540    

Mr. Arthur L. Burns 
Interpool, Inc. 
211 College Road East 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540  

Dear Mr. Burns:  

This
letter agreement (this   Agreement  ) confirms the agreement
between Interpool, Inc. (the   Company  ) and you to cancel the
stock appreciation rights (the   SARs  ) granted to you pursuant
to Section 6(e) of your employment agreement with the Company, dated as of July
1, 2004 (the   Employment Agreement  ), in exchange for the grant
of a stock option under the 2004 Stock Option Plan for Key Employees and
Directors of Interpool, Inc. (the   2004 Stock Option Plan  ) and
payments of cash to be made by the Company in the future.   

1.    Capitalized
Terms . All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the
meaning as set forth in the Employment Agreement.   

2.    Term . This Agreement shall be effective as of
November 18, 2005 (the   Effective Date  ) and shall continue in
effect until each  Cash Payment  (as set forth in Paragraph 4 below)
has been paid to you.  

3.    Cancellation of Stock
Appreciation Rights . You hereby agree to the cancellation of the SARs
effective as of the Effective Date, in exchange for the Cash Payments and the
 Option  (as set forth in Paragraph 5 below) (the   SARs
Cancellation  ). In addition, you hereby agree that Section 6(e) of the
Employment Agreement is superseded by the terms of this Agreement, and that
effective as of the Effective Date, Section 6(e) of the Employment Agreement
shall be deleted and of no further force or effect.   

4.    Cash Payments .
You shall be entitled to receive the following lump sum cash payments: (i) on or
prior to December 31, 2005, an amount equal to the estimated amount of income
and employment taxes expected to be imposed upon you for calendar year 2005 in
connection with the SARs Cancellation (the   Tax Payment   and
(ii) on or prior to June 30, 2006, an amount equal to (A) $708,000.00, minus (B)
the amount of the Tax Payment, to the extent it has already been paid to you
(together with the Tax Payment, the   Cash Payments  ).

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if prior to the payment
of a Cash Payment, any of the following events shall occur, you shall become
entitled to receive the Cash Payment as soon as practicable after the occurrence
of such event: (i) your employment with the Company is terminated by the Company
without Cause, by you for Good Reason, or due to your Disability or death; (ii)
a Going Private Transaction, provided you are employed by the Company as of the
effective date of such Going Private Transaction; or (iii) a Change of Control,
provided you are employed by the Company as of the effective date of such Change
of Control.   

5.    Stock Option . In
addition, effective as of the Effective Date, you shall be granted a
nonqualified stock option (the   Option  ), pursuant to the 2004
Stock Option Plan, to purchase 150,000 shares of common stock of the Company at
an exercise price equal to $18.77 (i.e., the  Fair Market Value  (as
defined in the 2004 Stock Option Plan) of the Company s common stock as of
the Effective Date). The Option shall be immediately exercisable in full with
respect all 150,000 shares as of the Effective Date, and shall remain
exercisable until the earlier to occur of (i) July 1, 2014, and (ii) 10 business
days following the termination of your employment with the Company for any
reason other than by the Company without Cause, by you for Good Reason, or due
to your Disability.   

Except as specifically set forth herein, the terms
of the Option shall be governed by the 2004 Stock Option Plan.  

6.    Withholding . All
payments required to be made by the Company to you pursuant to this Agreement
shall be subject to the withholding of such amounts relating to taxes and other
governmental assessments as the Company may reasonably determine it should
withhold pursuant to any applicable law, rule or regulation.   

7.    This Agreement is not an
Employment Contract . This Agreement does not create or imply a fixed term of
employment or a guarantee of continued employment. The terms of your employment
with the Company shall be solely governed by the Employment Agreement.  

8.    No Implied
Rights . This Agreement shall be unfunded, and all payments provided for
under this Agreement shall be paid to you in cash from the general funds of the
Company. The Company shall not be required to establish any special or separate
fund, or to make any other segregation of assets, to assure payment of any
amounts hereunder and, if the Company shall make any investments to aid it in
meeting its obligations hereunder, you shall have no right, title, or interest
whatever in or to any such investments. Nothing contained in this Agreement, and
no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to
create a trust or fiduciary relationship of any kind between the Company and
you. To the extent that you become entitled to receive a payment from the
Company hereunder, such right shall be no greater than the right of a general
unsecured creditor of the Company.   

9.    No Assignment of
Payments . Your rights to any payments hereunder are not subject in any
manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge,
encumbrance, attachment or garnishment by your creditors. If, notwithstanding
the preceding sentence, by reason of any attempted assignment, transfer, pledge
or encumbrance, or any bankruptcy or other event happening at any time, any
amount payable to you under this Agreement would be made subject to your debts
or liabilities, then the Company, if it so elects, may terminate your right to
receive any such payment.   

10.    Entire
Agreement . This Agreement, the Employment Agreement and the 2004 Stock
Option Plan constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to
the subject matter hereof, and this Agreement may not be changed orally but only
by an agreement in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of any
waiver, change, modification or discharge is sought.   

11.    Severability . In
case any provision in this Agreement shall be declared invalid, illegal or
unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, the validity and
enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or
impaired thereby.   

12.    Company
Obligations . This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company and its
successors and assigns.   

13.    Fees and
Expenses . In the event of any legal action or arbitration proceeding to
enforce any right provided by this Agreement, the Company and you shall each
bear their own legal fees and expenses.   

14.    Governing Law .
This Agreement and its validity, construction and performance shall be governed
in all respects by the internal laws of the State of New Jersey without giving
effect to any principles of conflict of laws.   

15.    Headings . The
headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not
control or affect the meaning or construction of this Agreement.   

If
the foregoing accurately reflects your understanding of our agreement, please
sign a copy of this Agreement and return it to the Company.   

Very truly yours, 
 
INTERPOOL, INC. 

By:               

Name: 
       Title: 

CONFIRMED AND ACCEPTED 

Arthur L. Burns  

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 5
 interpool-ex1011_030906.htm
 EX-10.11

Exhibit 10.11 

Mr. Richard W. Gross 
Interpool, Inc. 
211 College Road East 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540  

RE: Cancellation of Stock Appreciation Rights  

Dear Mr. Gross:  

This letter agreement (this   Agreement  ) confirms the agreement
between Interpool, Inc. (the   Company  ) and you to cancel the
stock appreciation rights (the   SARs  ) granted to you pursuant
to Section 6(e) of your employment agreement with the Company, dated as of July
1, 2004 (the   Employment Agreement  ), in exchange for the grant
of a stock option under the 2004 Stock Option Plan for Key Employees and
Directors of Interpool, Inc. (the   2004 Stock Option Plan  ) and
payments of cash to be made by the Company in the future.   

1.    Capitalized
Terms . All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the
meaning as set forth in the Employment Agreement.   

2.    Term . This Agreement
shall be effective as of November 18, 2005 (the   Effective
Date  ) and shall continue in effect until each  Cash Payment 
(as set forth in Paragraph 4 below) has been paid to you.   

3.    Cancellation of Stock
Appreciation Rights . You hereby agree to the cancellation of the SARs
effective as of the Effective Date, in exchange for the Cash Payments and the
 Option  (as set forth in Paragraph 5 below) (the   SARs
Cancellation  ). In addition, you hereby agree that Section 6(e) of the
Employment Agreement is superseded by the terms of this Agreement, and that
effective as of the Effective Date, Section 6(e) of the Employment Agreement
shall be deleted and of no further force or effect.   

4.    Cash Payments .
You shall be entitled to receive the following lump sum cash payments: (i) on or
prior to December 31, 2005, an amount equal to the estimated amount of income
and employment taxes expected to be imposed upon you for calendar year 2005 in
connection with the SARs Cancellation (the   Tax Payment   and
(ii) on or prior to June 30, 2006, an amount equal to (A) $472,000.00, minus (B)
the amount of the Tax Payment, to the extent it has already been paid to you
(together with the Tax Payment, the   Cash Payments  ).

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if prior to
the payment of a Cash Payment, any of the following events shall occur, you
shall become entitled to receive the Cash Payment as soon as practicable after
the occurrence of such event: (i) your employment with the Company is terminated
by the Company without Cause, by you for Good Reason, or due to your Disability
or death; (ii) a Going Private Transaction, provided you are employed by the
Company as of the effective date of such Going Private Transaction; or (iii) a
Change of Control, provided you are employed by the Company as of the effective
date of such Change of Control.   

5.    Stock Option . In
addition, effective as of the Effective Date, you shall be granted a
nonqualified stock option (the   Option  ), pursuant to the 2004
Stock Option Plan, to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock of the Company at
an exercise price equal to $18.77 (i.e., the  Fair Market Value  (as
defined in the 2004 Stock Option Plan) of the Company s common stock as of
the Effective Date). The Option shall be immediately exercisable in full with
respect all 100,000 shares as of the Effective Date, and shall remain
exercisable until the earlier to occur of (i) July 1, 2014, and (ii) 10 business
days following the termination of your employment with the Company for any
reason other than by the Company without Cause, by you for Good Reason, or due
to your Disability.   

Except as specifically set forth herein, the
terms of the Option shall be governed by the 2004 Stock Option Plan.   

6.    Withholding . All
payments required to be made by the Company to you pursuant to this Agreement
shall be subject to the withholding of such amounts relating to taxes and other
governmental assessments as the Company may reasonably determine it should
withhold pursuant to any applicable law, rule or regulation.   

7.    This Agreement is not
an Employment Contract . This Agreement does not create or imply a fixed term
of employment or a guarantee of continued employment. The terms of your
employment with the Company shall be solely governed by the Employment
Agreement.   

8.    No Implied
Rights . This Agreement shall be unfunded, and all payments provided for
under this Agreement shall be paid to you in cash from the general funds of the
Company. The Company shall not be required to establish any special or separate
fund, or to make any other segregation of assets, to assure payment of any
amounts hereunder and, if the Company shall make any investments to aid it in
meeting its obligations hereunder, you shall have no right, title, or interest
whatever in or to any such investments. Nothing contained in this Agreement, and
no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to
create a trust or fiduciary relationship of any kind between the Company and
you. To the extent that you become entitled to receive a payment from the
Company hereunder, such right shall be no greater than the right of a general
unsecured creditor of the Company.   

9.    No Assignment of
Payments . Your rights to any payments hereunder are not subject in any
manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge,
encumbrance, attachment or garnishment by your creditors. If, notwithstanding
the preceding sentence, by reason of any attempted assignment, transfer, pledge
or encumbrance, or any bankruptcy or other event happening at any time, any
amount payable to you under this Agreement would be made subject to your debts
or liabilities, then the Company, if it so elects, may terminate your right to
receive any such payment.   

10.    Entire
Agreement . This Agreement, the Employment Agreement and the 2004 Stock
Option Plan constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to
the subject matter hereof, and this Agreement may not be changed orally but only
by an agreement in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of any
waiver, change, modification or discharge is sought.   

11.    Severability . In
case any provision in this Agreement shall be declared invalid, illegal or
unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, the validity and
enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or
impaired thereby.   

12.    Company
Obligations . This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company and its
successors and assigns.   

13.    Fees and
Expenses . In the event of any legal action or arbitration proceeding to
enforce any right provided by this Agreement, the Company and you shall each
bear their own legal fees and expenses.   

14.    Governing
Law . This Agreement and its validity, construction and performance shall be
governed in all respects by the internal laws of the State of New Jersey without
giving effect to any principles of conflict of laws.   

15.    Headings . The headings
in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not control or
affect the meaning or construction of this Agreement.   

If
the foregoing accurately reflects your understanding of our agreement, please
sign a copy of this Agreement and return it to the Company.  

Very truly yours, 
 
INTERPOOL, INC. 

By:               

Name: 
       Title: 

CONFIRMED AND ACCEPTED 

Richard W. Gross  

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 6
 interpool-ex1045_030906.htm
 EX-10.45

Exhibit 10.45 

FIFTH AMENDMENT TO INVESTOR RIGHTS AGREEMENT    

FIFTH AMENDMENT dated as of January 30, 2006 to the INVESTOR RIGHTS AGREEMENT
dated as of September 14, 2004 by and among INTERPOOL, INC., a Delaware
corporation (the  Company ), and the investors signatory hereto (each
a  Holder  and, collectively, the  Holders ).   

W   I   T   N   E   S   S   E   T   H  :   

WHEREAS, the Company, the Holders and certain other investors party thereto (the
Holders, together with such other investors, being referred to collectively as
the  Original Investors ) entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement
dated as of September 14, 2004 (the  Purchase Agreement ), pursuant to
which the Company issued to the Original Investors certain warrants to purchase
a total of 8,333,333 shares of the Company s common stock (the
 Warrants    

WHEREAS, the Company and the Original Investors entered into an Investor Rights
Agreement dated as of September 14, 2004 (the  Original Investor Rights
Agreement ), pursuant to which the Company agreed to use its commercially
reasonable efforts to register the Warrants and the shares underlying the
Warrants under the Securities Act of 1933 for the benefit of the Original
Investors; and   

WHEREAS, the Company and certain of the Original Investors entered into an
Amendment dated as of April 26, 2005 (the  First Amendment ), a Second
Amendment dated as of June 29, 2005 (the  Second Amendment ), a Third
Amendment dated as of October 27, 2005 (the  Third Amendment ) and a
Fourth Amendment dated as of October 28, 2005 (the  Fourth Amendment )
to the Original Investor Rights Agreement, pursuant to which the Company and
such Original Investors agreed to amend the Original Investor Rights Agreement
(such agreement, as so amended, being referred to as the  Investor Rights
Agreement ) as set forth therein;   

WHEREAS, the Company and the Holders, who constitute the holders of a majority
of the  Transfer Restricted Securities  (as defined in the Investor
Rights Agreement), now desire to further amend the Investor Rights Agreement as
hereinafter set forth.   

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants hereinafter
contained, it is agreed as follows:   

SECTION 1.   AMENDMENT TO INVESTOR RIGHTS AGREEMENT . Effective
as of the date hereof, the Investor Rights Agreement is hereby amended as
follows:  

(a)  by deleting the reference to  January 6, 2006  in the
second sentence of Section 3(a) (such reference having previously been changed
from July 1, 2005 to January 6, 2006 pursuant to the previous amendments), and
inserting, in lieu of such reference,  March 6, 2006 
and 

(b)  by deleting clause (ii) of the first sentence of Section 5 and
inserting, in lieu of such clause, the following:  (ii) has not been
declared effective by the Commission on or prior to April 1, 2006;
or . 

SECTION 2.   EFFECT ON INVESTOR RIGHTS AGREEMENT .  

(a)  On and after the date hereof, each reference in the Investor
Rights Agreement to  this Agreement ,  herein ,
 hereof ,  hereunder  or words of similar import, shall mean
and be a reference to the Investor Rights Agreement as amended hereby. 

(b)  Except as specifically amended above in connection herewith, the
Investor Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and is hereby
ratified and confirmed. 

(c)  The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall
not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of any right,
power or remedy of the Original Investors or the Holders under the Investor
Rights Agreement or any document executed in connection therewith. 

SECTION 3.    GOVERNING LAW . THIS AMENDMENT AND THE
OBLIGATIONS ARISING HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND ENFORCED
IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE
CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.    

SECTION 4.   COUNTERPARTS . This Amendment may be executed in any
number of separate counterparts, each of which shall collectively and separately
constitute one agreement.   

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed as of the date first
written above.   

INTERPOOL, INC. 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

GREYWOLF CAPITAL PARTNERS II LP 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

GREYWOLF CAPITAL OVERSEAS FUND 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

GREYWOLF HIGH YIELD MASTER FUND 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

CASPIAN CAPITAL PARTNERS, LP 

By:   MARINER INVESTMENT GROUP, INC., 
         as Investment Advisor 
 
By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

MARINER LDC 

By:   MARINER INVESTMENT GROUP, INC., 
         as Investment Advisor 
 
By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

MARINER OPPORTUNITIES FUND, LP 

By:   MARINER INVESTMENT GROUP, INC., 
         as Investment Advisor 
 
By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

MARINER VOYAGER MASTER FUND, LTD 

By:   MARINER INVESTMENT GROUP, INC., 
         as Investment Advisor 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

RIVA RIDGE MASTER FUND, LTD. 

By:   RIVA RIDGE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 
         LP, As Investment Manager 
 
By:   RIVA RIDGE GP LLC, GP to the 
         Investment Manager 
 
By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

MARINER LDC 

By:   RIVA RIDGE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 
         LP, As Investment Manager 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

GOLDMAN, SACHS   CO. 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 7
 interpool-ex1046_030906.htm
 EX-10.46

Exhibit 10.46 

FOURTH AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENTS    

FOURTH AMENDMENT dated as of January 30, 2006 to the REGISTRATION RIGHTS
AGREEMENTS dated as of September 14, 2004 and November 29, 2004, by and among
INTERPOOL, INC., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and the
investors signatory hereto (each a  Holder  and, collectively, the
 Holders ).   

W   I   T   N   E   S   S   E   T   H  :   

WHEREAS, the Company, the Holders and certain other investors party thereto (the
Holders, together with such other investors, being referred to collectively as
the  Original Investors ) entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement
dated as of September 14, 2004 (the  September Purchase Agreement )
and/or an Agreement dated as of November 29, 2004 (the  November Purchase
Agreement ), pursuant to which the Company issued to the Original Investors
the Company s 6% Senior Notes Due 2014 (the  Notes    

WHEREAS, the Company and certain of the Original Investors entered into a
Registration Rights Agreement dated as of September 14, 2004 (the
 September Registration Rights Agreement ) and/or a Registration
Rights Agreement dated as of November 29, 2004 (the  November Registration
Rights Agreement ), pursuant to which the Company agreed to use its
commercially reasonable efforts to register the Notes under the Securities Act
of 1933 for the benefit of the Original Investors; and   

WHEREAS, the Company and certain of the Original Investors entered into an
Amendment dated as of April 26, 2005 (the  First Amendment ), a Second
Amendment dated as of June 29, 2005 (the  Second Amendment ) and a
Third Amendment dated as of October 28, 2005 (the  Third Amendment )
to the September Registration Rights Agreement and the November Registration
Rights Agreement, pursuant to which the Company and such Original Investors
agreed to amend the September Registration Rights Agreement and the November
Registration Rights Agreement (such agreements, as so amended, being referred to
collectively as the  Registration Rights Agreements ) as set forth
therein;   

WHEREAS, the Company and the Holders, who constitute the holders of a majority
of the  Registrable Securities  (as defined in the September
Registration Rights Agreement and in the November Registration Rights
Agreement), now desire to further amend the Registration Rights Agreements as
hereinafter set forth.   

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants hereinafter
contained, it is agreed as follows (it being understood that the agreement below
of Goldman, Sachs   Co. applies solely to the September Registration Rights
Agreement as Goldman, Sachs   Co. was not a party to the November
Registration Rights Agreement):   

SECTION 1.   AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENTS .
Effective as of the date hereof, each of the Registration Rights Agreements is
hereby amended as follows:  

(a)  by deleting the references to  January 6, 2006  in the
second sentence of Section 2(a), and in Section 3(c)(i) (such references having
previously been changed from July 1, 2005 to January 6, 2006 pursuant to the
previous amendments), and inserting, in lieu of each such reference,  March
6, 2006  and 

(b)  by deleting clause (ii) of the first sentence of Section 2(d) and
inserting, in lieu of such clause, the following:  (ii) such Exchange
Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement has not become effective
or been declared effective by the Commission on or prior to April 1, 2006;
or . 

SECTION 2.   EFFECT ON REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENTS .  

(a)  On and after the date hereof, each reference in the Registration Rights
Agreements to  this Agreement ,  herein ,
 hereof ,  hereunder  or words of similar import, shall mean
and be a reference to such Registration Rights Agreement as amended hereby. 

(b)  Except as specifically amended above in connection herewith, each
Registration Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and is
hereby ratified and confirmed. 

(c)  The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall
not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of any right,
power or remedy of the Original Investors or the Holders under the Registration
Rights Agreements or any document executed in connection therewith. 

SECTION 3.    GOVERNING LAW . THIS AMENDMENT AND THE
OBLIGATIONS ARISING HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND ENFORCED
IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE
CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.    

SECTION 4.   COUNTERPARTS . This Amendment may be executed in any
number of separate counterparts, each of which shall collectively and separately
constitute one agreement.   

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed as of the date first
written above.   

INTERPOOL, INC. 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

GREYWOLF CAPITAL PARTNERS II LP 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

GREYWOLF CAPITAL OVERSEAS FUND 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

GREYWOLF HIGH YIELD MASTER FUND 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

CASPIAN CAPITAL PARTNERS, LP 

By:   MARINER INVESTMENT GROUP, INC., 
         as Investment Advisor 
 
By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

MARINER LDC 

By:   MARINER INVESTMENT GROUP, INC., 
         as Investment Advisor 
 
By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

MARINER OPPORTUNITIES FUND, LP 

By:   MARINER INVESTMENT GROUP, INC., 
         as Investment Advisor 
 
By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

MARINER VOYAGER MASTER FUND, LTD 

By:   MARINER INVESTMENT GROUP, INC., 
         as Investment Advisor 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

RIVA RIDGE MASTER FUND, LTD. 

By:   RIVA RIDGE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 
         LP, As Investment Manager 
 
By:   RIVA RIDGE GP LLC, GP to the 
         Investment Manager 
 
By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

MARINER LDC 

By:   RIVA RIDGE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 
         LP, As Investment Manager 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

GOLDMAN, SACHS   CO. 

By:              

Name: 
         Title: 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 8
 interpool-ex1047_030906.htm
 EX-10.47

Exhibit 10.47 

Published CUSIP Number:  210738AA8    

   REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT   

  Dated as of April 28, 2005  

  by and among  

   CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  
(the  Borrower )  

   THE LENDERS LISTED ON  SCHEDULE   1  HERETO    

  and  

   BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.  
as administrative agent (the  Administrative Agent )  

  with  

   BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC , 
acting as lead arranger and book manager (the  Arranger )  

  and  

   LASALLE BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION  
as Syndication Agent (the  Syndication Agent )  

  and  

   UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, N.A.  
as co-agent (the  Co-Agent )   

    TABLE OF CONTENTS    

1.  DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF INTERPRETATION  
 1 

Rules of Interpretation  
 27 

2.5.  Interest on Revolving Credit Loans and Swing Line Loans  
 30 

2.7.1.  Conversion to Different Type of Revolving Credit Loan  
 31 

3.  REPAYMENT OF THE REVOLVING CREDIT LOANS  
 37 

3.2.  Mandatory Repayments of Revolving Credit Loans  
 37 

3.3.  Optional Repayments of Revolving Credit Loans and Swing Line Loans . (a) 
 37 

4.1.2.  Procedures for the Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit . (a) 
 40 

4.2.  Reimbursement Obligation of the Borrower  
 42 

6.  COLLATERAL SECURITY AND GUARANTIES  
 53 

7.  REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES  
 53 

7.9.  Compliance with Other Instruments, Laws, etc . 
 56 

8.4.   Financial Statements, Certificates and Information  
 63 

8.5.6.  Notice of Change in Accounting or Financial Reporting Practices  
 67 

8.6.  Legal Existence; Maintenance of Properties  
 67 

8.10.  Compliance with Laws, Contracts, Licenses, and Permits  
 69 

9.2.2  Restrictions on Negative Pledges and Upstream Limitations  
 75 

9.5.  Merger, Acquisitions and Consolidation; Disposition of Assets  
 77 

9.8.  Subordinated Debt; Master Lease Agreements  
 78 

10.4.  Senior Funded Debt to Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net Worth  
 81 

11.6.  Asset List; Perfection Certificates and UCC Search Results  
 83 

Exhibits   

Exhibit   A  
 Form of Borrowing Base Report 

Exhibit   B  
 Form of Revolving Credit Note 

Exhibit   C  
 Form of Loan Request 

Exhibit   D  
 Form of Compliance Certificate 

Exhibit   E  
 Assignment and Assumption 

Exhibit   F  
 Swing Line Loan Notice 

Schedules   

Schedule   1  
 Lenders and Commitments 

Schedule   1.1  
 Existing Letters of Credit 

Schedule   7.3  
 Title to Properties; Leases 

Schedule   7.7  
 Litigation 

Schedule   7.15  
 Certain Transactions 

Schedule   7.18  
 Environmental Compliance 

Schedule   9.1  
 Existing Indebtedness 

Schedule   9.2  
 Existing Liens 

Schedule   9.3  
 Existing Investments 

Schedule   15.1.2  
 Processing and Recordation Fees 

REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT   

This  REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT  is made as of April 28, 2005, by and
among  CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  (the
  Borrower  ), a Nevada corporation having its principal place of
business at 550 Kearny Street, San Francisco, California 94108, the lending
institutions from time to time listed on  Schedule   1  hereto
(the   Lenders  ),  BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,  as
administrative agent for itself and the other Lenders (in such capacity, the
  Administrative Agent  ),  LASALLE BANK NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION  as syndication agent for itself and the other Lenders (in such
capacity, the   Syndication Agent  ), and  UNION BANK OF
CALIFORNIA, N.A. , as co-agent for itself and the other Lenders (in such
capacity, the   Co-Agent  ), with  BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES
LLC  acting as lead arranger and book manager.   

   1.   DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF INTERPRETATION .   

1.1.   Definitions .   The following terms shall
have the meanings set forth in this  1 or elsewhere in the provisions of
this Credit Agreement referred to below:   

Accounts Receivable . All rights of the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries to payment for goods sold, leased or otherwise marketed in the
ordinary course of business and all rights of the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries to payment for services rendered in the ordinary course of business
and all sums of money or other proceeds due thereon pursuant to transactions
with account debtors, except for that portion of the sum of money or other
proceeds due thereon that relate to sales, use or property taxes in conjunction
with such transactions, recorded on books of account in accordance with GAAP.

Adjustment Date . The first day of the month immediately following the
month in which a Compliance Certificate is to be delivered by the Borrower
pursuant to  8.4(d).   

Administrative Agent s Office . The Administrative Agent s
office located at 100 Federal Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02110, or at such
other location as the Administrative Agent may designate from time to time.

Administrative Agent . Bank of America, N.A., acting as administrative
agent for the Lenders, and each other Person appointed as the successor
Administrative Agent in accordance with  14.9.   

Administrative Agent s Special Counsel . Bingham McCutchen LLP or
such other counsel as may be approved by the Administrative Agent.   

Administrative Questionnaire . An Administrative Questionnaire in a form
supplied by the Administrative Agent.   

Affiliate . With respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or
indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or
is under common Control with the Person specified.   

Agent Parties . See  16.6.3.   

Applicable Margin . For each period commencing on an Adjustment Date
through the date immediately preceding the next Adjustment Date (each a
  Rate Adjustment Period  ), the Applicable Margin shall be the
applicable margin set forth below with respect to the Total Leverage Ratio, as
determined for the Reference Period of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries ending
on the fiscal quarter ended immediately prior to the applicable Rate Adjustment
Period.   

Notwithstanding the foregoing, (a) for the Revolving Credit Loans outstanding
and the Letter of Credit Fees and the Commitment Fee payable during the period
commencing on the Closing Date through the date immediately preceding the first
Adjustment Date to occur after the second fiscal quarter following the Closing
Date,   the Applicable Margin shall be no lower than the Applicable Margin
set forth in Level III above, and (b) if the Borrower fails to deliver any
Compliance Certificate pursuant to  8.4(d) hereof, then for the period
commencing on the next Adjustment Date to occur subsequent to such failure
through the date immediately following the date on which such Compliance
Certificate is delivered, the Applicable Margin shall be the highest Applicable
Margin set forth above.   

Applicable Pension Legislation . At any time, any pension or retirement
benefits legislation (be it national, federal, provincial, territorial or
otherwise) then applicable to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.

Approved Fund . Any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender,
(b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that
administers or manages a Lender.   

Arranger . Banc of America Securities LLC, in its capacity as lead
arranger and book manager.   

Assignee Group . Two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one
another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.

Assignment and Assumption . An assignment and assumption entered into by a
Lender and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is
required by  15.1.1, and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in
substantially the form of  Exhibit E  or any other form approved by the
Administrative Agent.   

Auto-Extension Letter of Credit . See  4.1.6.   

Balance Sheet Date . December 31, 2004.   

Bank of America . Bank of America, N.A., in its individual capacity.

Base Rate . For any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher
of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in
effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America
as its  prime rate . The  prime rate  is a rate set by Bank
of America based upon various factors including Bank of America s costs and
desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a
reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below
such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall
take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public
announcement of such change.   

Base Rate Loans . Revolving Credit Loans bearing interest calculated by
reference to the Base Rate.   

Borrower . As defined in the preamble hereto.   

Borrowing Base . At the relevant time of reference thereto, an amount
determined by the Administrative Agent by reference to the most recent Borrowing
Base Report delivered to the Lenders pursuant to  8.4(f)   which is
equal to the sum of:   

(a)        80.00% of the Net Book Value of
Eligible Containers;  plus 

(b)        75.00% of Eligible Container
Receivables,  provided  that the amount included in the Borrowing Base
pursuant to this clause (b) shall not exceed $20,000,000;  plus 

(c)        85.00% of the Net Present Value of
Direct Finance Lease Receivables (other than Direct Finance Lease Receivables
arising from Eligible Containers which are included in clause (a) of this
definition); plus

Borrowing Base Cash Collateral . As of any date of determination, all cash
sums on deposit with the Administrative Agent in Account #9429168958 and pledged
to secure the Obligations pursuant to the Cash Collateral Pledge Agreement.

Borrowing Base Report . A Borrowing Base Report signed by the chief
financial officer of the Borrower and in substantially the form of
 Exhibit   A  hereto.   

Business Day . Any day on which banking institutions in Boston,
Massachusetts and San Francisco, California, are open for the transaction of
banking business and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, also a day which is
a Eurodollar Business Day.   

Capital Assets . Fixed assets, both tangible (such as land, buildings,
fixtures, machinery and equipment) and intangible (such as patents, copyrights,
trademarks, franchises and good will);  provided  that Capital Assets shall
not include any item customarily charged directly to expense or depreciated over
a useful life of twelve (12) months or less in accordance with GAAP.   

Capital Expenditures . Amounts paid or Indebtedness incurred by the
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with (i) the purchase or lease
by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of Capital Assets that would be
required to be capitalized and shown on the balance sheet of such Person in
accordance with GAAP or (ii) the lease of any assets by the Borrower or any of
its Subsidiaries as lessee under any Synthetic Lease to the extent that such
assets would have been Capital Assets had the Synthetic Lease been treated for
accounting purposes as a Capitalized Lease.   

Capitalized Leases . Leases under which the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries is the lessee or obligor, the discounted future rental payment
obligations under which are required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of
the lessee or obligor in accordance with GAAP.   

Capital Stock . Any and all shares, interests, participations or other
equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all
equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any
and all warrants, rights or options to purchase any of the foregoing.

Cash Collateral . See  4.7.   

Cash   Collateral   Pledge   Agreement . That certain
Borrowing Base Cash Collateral Pledge Agreement, dated as of the Closing Date,
between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent.   

CERCLA . See  7.18(a).   

Change of Control .   Any of (i) Interpool and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries and Mr. Hiromitsu Ogawa, members of his immediate family and trusts
for the benefit of the same shall, at any time, cease to own, collectively, at
least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3 %) of the issued and
outstanding Voting Stock of the Borrower of every class (on a fully-diluted
basis), or (ii) Interpool and its wholly-owned subsidiaries shall, at any time,
cease to own at least thirty-three and one-third percent (33 1/3 %) of
the issued and outstanding Voting Stock of the Borrower of every class (on a
fully-diluted basis), or (iii) Mr. Hiromitsu Ogawa, members of his immediate
family and trusts for the benefit of the same shall, at any time, cease to own
at least thirty-three and one-third percent (33 1/3 %) of the issued
and outstanding Voting Stock of the Borrower of every class (on a fully-diluted
basis), or (iv) Mr. Hiromitsu Ogawa shall cease to be actively engaged as the
chief executive officer of the Borrower and a new chief executive officer of the
Borrower reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders shall not have been
appointed within sixty (60) days after such cessation;  provided ,
 however , that the Required Lenders hereby agree in advance that Masaaki
Nishibori and Fred Bauthier shall each be deemed to be reasonably acceptable to
serve as chief executive officer of Borrower in the event that Hiromitsu Ogawa
ceases to be actively engaged as chief executive officer.   

Closing Date . The first date all the conditions precedent in  11 are
satisfied or waived and any Revolving Credit Loans are to be made or any Letters
of Credit are to be issued hereunder.   

Closing Interpool Repayment . The repayment of the Interpool Subordinated
Debt on the Closing Date in an amount not to exceed $15,200,000.   

Co-Agent . See Introductory Paragraph.   

Code . The Internal Revenue Code of 1986.   

Collateral . All of the property, rights and interests of the Borrower and
each of the Guarantors that are or are intended to be subject to the Liens
created by the Security Documents.   

Commitment . With respect to each Lender, the amount set forth on
 Schedule   1  hereto as the amount of such Lender s
commitment to make Revolving Credit Loans to, to participate in the issuance,
extension and renewal of Letters of Credit for the account of, and to purchase
participations in Swing Line Loans made to, the Borrower, as the same may be
increased pursuant to  15.9 or reduced from time to time; or if such
commitment is terminated pursuant to the provisions hereof, zero.   

Commitment Fee . See  2.2.   

Commitment Percentage . With respect to each Lender, the percentage set forth on
 Schedule   1  hereto as such Lender's percentage of the aggregate
Commitments of all of the Lenders.   

Compliance Certificate . See  8.4(d).   

Consolidated or consolidated . With reference to any term defined herein,
shall mean that term as applied to the accounts of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries, consolidated in accordance with GAAP.   

Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net Worth . At any time, the Consolidated
Tangible Net Worth of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries at such time,
 plus  the outstanding amount of Subordinated Debt of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries at such time.   

Consolidated EBITDA . With respect to any fiscal period, an amount equal
to the sum of (a) Consolidated Net Income (or Deficit) of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries for such fiscal period,  plus  (b) in each case to the extent
deducted in the calculation of such Person s Consolidated Net Income and
without duplication, (i) depreciation and amortization for such period,
 plus  (ii) income tax expense for such period,  plus  (iii)
Consolidated Total Interest Expense paid or accrued during such period,
 plus  (iv) other noncash charges for such period,  plus  (v) principal payments
received by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries during such period with respect to
Direct Finance Leases, all as determined in accordance with GAAP.   

Consolidated EBITDAR . With respect to any fiscal period of the Borrower
and its Subsidiaries, an amount equal to the sum of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for
such fiscal period  plus  (b) consolidated rental expense for such fiscal
period as determined in accordance with GAAP.   

Consolidated Funded Debt . At any time of determination, with respect to
the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, the sum, without duplication, of (a) the
aggregate amount of Indebtedness (including Subordinated Debt) of the Borrower
and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, relating to (i) the borrowing of
money or the obtaining of credit, including the issuance of notes or bonds, (ii)
the deferred purchase price of assets (other than trade payables incurred in the
ordinary course of business), (iii) Capitalized Leases, (iv) Rental Obligations,
and (v) the maximum drawing amount of all letters of credit outstanding
 plus  (b) Indebtedness of the type referred to in clause (a) of another
Person guaranteed by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries . 

Consolidated Net Income (or Deficit) . The consolidated net income (or
deficit) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, after deduction of all expenses,
taxes, and other proper charges, determined in accordance with GAAP, after
eliminating therefrom all extraordinary items of income or loss.

Consolidated Operating Cash Flow . With respect to any fiscal period of
the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, an amount equal to (i) Consolidated EBITDAR
for such fiscal period  minus  (ii) cash income tax expense for such
period, as determined in accordance with GAAP.   

Consolidated Tangible Net Worth . The excess of Consolidated Total Assets
over Consolidated Total Liabilities (excluding Rental Obligations), and less the
sum of:   

(a)        the total book value of all assets
of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries properly classified as intangible assets
under GAAP, including such items as good will, the purchase price of acquired
assets in excess of the fair market value thereof (for purposes of this
definition, the purchase price of new Containers acquired in arm s length
purchases from third parties shall be deemed to equal the fair market value
thereof), trademarks, trade names, service marks, brand names, copyrights,
patents and licenses, and rights with respect to the foregoing;  plus 

(b)        all amounts representing any
write-up in the book value of any assets of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries
resulting from a revaluation thereof subsequent to the Balance Sheet
Date ,  excluding adjustments to translate foreign assets and liabilities
for changes in foreign exchange rates made in accordance with Financial
Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 52;  plus 

(c)        to the extent otherwise includable
in the computation of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth, any subscriptions
receivable.

Consolidated Total Assets . All assets of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.

Consolidated Total Debt Service . With respect to the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries and for any Reference Period, the sum, without duplication, of (a)
any and all repayments or prepayments of principal (excluding the Closing
Interpool Repayment) during such period in respect of Indebtedness that becomes
due and payable or that are to become due and payable during such period
pursuant to any agreement or instrument to which the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries is a party relating to (i) the borrowing of money or the obtaining
of credit, including the issuance of notes or bonds, (ii) the deferred purchase
price of assets (other than trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of
business), (iii) in respect of any Synthetic Leases or any Capitalized Leases,
(iv) in respect of any reimbursement obligations in respect of letters of credit
due and payable during such period, and (v) Indebtedness of the type referred to
above of another Person guaranteed by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries,
 plus  (b) Consolidated Total Interest Expense paid or payable in cash
during such Reference Period,  plus  (c) one tenth (1/10) of the average
daily outstanding amount of the Revolving Credit Loans during such Reference
Period,  plus  (d) consolidated rental expense for such period as
determined in accordance with GAAP. Demand obligations shall be deemed to be due
and payable during any fiscal period during which such obligations are
outstanding.   

Consolidated Total Interest Expense . For any period, the aggregate amount
of interest required to be paid or accrued by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries
during such period on all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries
outstanding during all or any part of such period, whether such interest was or
is required to be reflected as an item of expense or capitalized, including
payments consisting of interest in respect of any Capitalized Lease or any
Synthetic Lease, and including commitment fees, agency fees, facility fees,
balance deficiency fees and similar fees or expenses in connection with the
borrowing of money.   

Consolidated Total Liabilities . All liabilities of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP and
classified as such on the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries and all other Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries
(including Subordinated Debt), whether or not so classified.

Containers . The marine and intermodal cargo containers either owned or
leased by the Borrower and employed by the Borrower in the conduct of its
business, including, without limitation, refrigerated, dry van, tank, open top
and flat rack containers and refrigeration units and generator sets associated
therewith,  but excluding  any chassis for such containers.   

Control . The possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct
or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether
through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.
  Controlling   and   Controlled   have meanings
correlative thereto.   

Conversion Request . A notice given by the Borrower to the Administrative
Agent of the Borrower s election to convert or continue a Loan in
accordance with  2.7.   

Credit Agreement  or  Agreement . This Revolving Credit Agreement,
including the Schedules and Exhibits hereto as the same may be amended,
restated, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.

Default .        See  13.1.

Delinquent Lender . See  14.5.3.   

Direct Finance Lease Receivables . All rights of the Borrower to payment
in respect of Direct Finance Leases that are not in default and all sums of
money or other proceeds due the Borrower pursuant to such Direct Finance Leases,
except for that portion of the sum of money or other proceeds due thereon that
relate to sales, use or property taxes in conjunction with such transactions,
recorded on the Borrower s books of account in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. The Administrative Agent shall hold a valid and
perfected first priority security interest in any Direct Finance Lease
Receivables included in the Borrowing Base.   

Direct Finance Lease Rate . With respect to any Direct Finance Lease, the
interest rate applicable to such Direct Finance Lease.   

Direct Finance Leases . Leases pursuant to which the Borrower leases
Containers to a lessee and (a) the terms of such lease provide that title to
such Containers will pass to such lessee at the end of the lease term
automatically or at the option of the lessee for no additional consideration or
for consideration so nominal that the lessee would be economically compelled to
exercise such option and (b) the interest component of the proceeds of such
lease are booked on the Borrower s financial statements as  Income
from Direct Finance Leases.    

Distribution . (a) The declaration or payment of any dividend on or in
respect of any shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Borrower, other than
dividends payable solely in shares of common stock of the Borrower; (b) the
purchase, redemption, defeasance, retirement or other acquisition of any shares
of any class of Capital Stock of the Borrower, directly or indirectly through a
Subsidiary of the Borrower or otherwise (including the setting apart of assets
for a sinking or other analogous fund to be used for such purpose); (c) the
return of capital by the Borrower to its shareholders as such; or (d) any other
distribution on or in respect of any shares of any class of Capital Stock of the
Borrower.

Dollars  or  $ . Dollars in lawful currency of the United States of
America.   

Domestic Lending Office . Initially, the office of each Lender designated
as such in  Schedule   1  hereto; thereafter, such other office
of such Lender, if any, located within the United States that will be making or
maintaining Base Rate Loans.   

Drawdown Date . The date on which any Revolving Credit Loan or Swing Line
Loan is made or is to be made, and the date on which any Revolving Credit Loan
is converted or continued in accordance with  2.7.   

Eligible Assignee . (a) A Lender; (b) an Affiliate of a Lender; (c) an
Approved Fund; and (d) any other Person (other than a natural person) approved
by (i) the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender, and
(ii) unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower
(each such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed);  provided 
that notwithstanding the foregoing,  Eligible Assignee  shall not
include the Borrower or any of the Borrower s Affiliates or Subsidiaries or
any competitor of the Borrower  (provided ,  however , that no
financial institution or Approved Fund shall be deemed to be a competitor of the
Borrower).   

Eligible Containers . Containers owned by the Borrower which (a) are
subject to a first priority fully perfected security interest in favor of the
Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders in all jurisdictions within
the United States of America where filing financing statements in accordance
with the Uniform Commercial Code is necessary to perfect the Lenders 
security interest in such Containers, (b) are subject to no other Liens except
Permitted Liens that (i) secure Subordinated Debt and are fully subordinated to
the Lenders  security interest in such Containers pursuant to the terms of
the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement or (ii) are permitted pursuant to
  9.2.1(v) and (xi), (c) are in a serviceable condition in the normal
course of business, (d) have a Net Book Value greater than zero, (e) have not
suffered an Event of Loss and (f) are not the subject of a finance or trade
credit arrangement between the Borrower as obligor and a third party obligee but
are owned by the Borrower outright.   

Eligible Container Receivables . The aggregate of the unpaid portions of
Accounts Receivable generated in connection with sales by the Borrower of
Containers permitted by  9.5.2 (net of any credits, rebates, offsets,
holdbacks or other adjustments or commissions payable to third parties that are
adjustments to such Accounts Receivable): (a) that the Borrower reasonably and
in good faith determines to be collectible; (b) that are with account debtors or
other obligors that (i) are not Affiliates of the Borrower, unless such
Affiliate is Interpool, (ii) purchased the Containers giving rise to the
relevant Account Receivable in an arm s length transaction, (iii) are not
insolvent or involved in any case or proceeding, whether voluntary or
involuntary, under any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency,
adjustment of debt, dissolution, liquidation or similar law of any jurisdiction
and (iv) are, in the Administrative Agent s reasonable judgment,
creditworthy; (c) that are in payment of obligations that have been fully
performed, do not consist of progress billings or bill and hold invoices and are
not subject to dispute or any other similar claims that would reduce the cash
amount payable therefor; (d) that are not subject to any pledge, restriction,
security interest or other lien or encumbrance other than Permitted Liens; (e)
in which the Administrative Agent has a valid and perfected first priority
security interest; (f) that are not outstanding for more than sixty (60) days
past the earlier to occur of (i) the due date listed on the respective original
invoices therefor and (ii) the date of shipment thereof; (g) that are not due
from any single account debtor or other obligor if more than fifteen percent
(15%) of the aggregate amount of all Accounts Receivable owing from such account
debtor or other obligor would otherwise not be Eligible Container Receivables;
(h) that are payable in Dollars (or such other currency as the Administrative
Agent may agree in its sole discretion); (i) that are not secured by a letter of
credit unless the Administrative Agent has a prior security interest in such
letter of credit perfected by control; (j) that are in payment of obligations
under agreements that contain terms requiring the relevant account debtor to
return the Container to the Borrower in the event that such Account Receivable
is not fully paid when due; and (k) are generated in connection with sales of
Containers owned by the Borrower outright that are not the subject of a finance
or trade credit arrangement between the Borrower as obligor and a third party
obligee.   

Employee Benefit Plan . Any employee benefit plan within the meaning of
 3(3) of ERISA maintained or contributed to by the Borrower or any ERISA
Affiliate (other than Interpool), other than a Guaranteed Pension Plan or a
Multiemployer Plan.   

Environmental Laws . See  7.18(a).   

EPA . See  7.18(b).   

ERISA . The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.

ERISA Affiliate . Any Person which is treated as a single employer with
the Borrower under  414 of the Code.   

ERISA Event . (a) An ERISA Reportable Event with respect to a Guaranteed
Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a
Guaranteed Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in
which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of
ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under
Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower
or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a
Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to
terminate, the treatment of an Employee Benefit Plan amendment as a termination
under Sections 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the
PBGC to terminate a Guaranteed Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event
or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the
termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Guaranteed
Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under
Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under
Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.   

ERISA Reportable Event . A reportable event with respect to a Guaranteed
Pension Plan within the meaning of  4043 of ERISA and the regulations
promulgated thereunder as to which the requirement of notice has not been
waived.   

Eurodollar Base Rate . See definition of Eurodollar Rate.   

Eurodollar Business Day . Any day on which commercial banks are open for
international business (including dealings in Dollar deposits) in London or such
other eurodollar interbank market as may be selected by the Administrative Agent
in its sole discretion acting in good faith.   

Eurodollar Lending Office . Initially, the office of each Lender
designated as such in  Schedule   1  hereto; thereafter, such
other office of such Lender, if any, that shall be making or maintaining
Eurodollar Rate Loans.   

Eurodollar Rate . For any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar
Rate Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to
the following formula:   

Eurodollar Rate = 

Eurodollar Base Rate
 
1.00 - Eurodollar Reserve Percentage

Where,   

Eurodollar Base Rate . For such Interest Period, the rate per annum equal
to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (  BBA LIBOR  ), as
published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing
quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to
time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the
first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest
Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the
 Eurodollar Base Rate  for such Interest Period shall be the rate per
annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in
Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds
in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or
converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period
would be offered by Bank of America s London Branch to major banks in the
London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m.
(London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest
Period.   

Eurodollar Reserve Percentage . For any day during any Interest Period,
the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal
places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under
regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum
reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal
reserve requirement) with respect to Eurocurrency funding (currently referred to
as  eurocurrency liabilities ). The Eurodollar Rate for each
outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the
effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.   

Eurodollar Rate Loans . Revolving Credit Loans bearing interest calculated
by reference to the Eurodollar Rate.   

Event of Default . See  13.1.   

Event of Loss . With respect to any Container, the occurrence of any of
the following events:   

(a)  
 
total loss or destruction thereof;

(b)  
 
theft or disappearance thereof without recovery within sixty (60) days after
such theft or disappearance becomes known to the Borrower;

(c)  
 
damage rendering such Container unfit for normal use and, in the judgment of the
Borrower, beyond repair at reasonable cost; and

(d)  
 
any condemnation, seizure, forced sale or other taking of title to or use of any
such Container.

Excess Availability . At any time of determination, (a) the lesser of (i)
the Total Commitment at such time or (ii) the Borrowing Base at such time,
 minus  (b) the sum of (i) the outstanding amount of the Revolving Credit
Loans at such time,  plus  (ii) the Maximum Drawing Amount and all Unpaid
Reimbursement Obligations at such time,  plus  (iii) the outstanding amount
of Swing Line Loans at such time.   

Existing Credit Agreement . The Fifth Amended and Restated Revolving
Credit Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2002 by and among the Borrower, the
lenders party thereto and Fleet National Bank, as administrative agent for the
lenders.   

Existing Letters of Credit . Those letters of credit issued for the
account of the Borrower under the Existing Credit Agreement and set forth on
 Schedule 1.1  hereto.   

Federal Funds Rate . For any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted
average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the
Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as
published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next
succeeding such day;  provided  that (a) if such day is not a Business Day,
the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on
the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business
Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business
Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded
upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of
America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative
Agent.   

Fee Letter . The fee letter, dated as of March 17, 2005, among the
Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Arranger, as the same may be amended,
restated, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.

Financial Affiliate . A Subsidiary of the bank holding company controlling
any Lender, which Subsidiary is engaging in any of the activities permitted by
 4(e) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C.  1843).

Fund . Any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be)
engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial
loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.

GAAP or generally accepted accounting principles . (a) When used in
 10, whether directly or indirectly through reference to a capitalized term
used therein, means (i) principles that are consistent with the principles
promulgated or adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and its
predecessors, in effect for the fiscal year ended on the Balance Sheet Date, and
(ii) to the extent consistent with such principles, the accounting practice of
the Borrower reflected in its financial statements for the year ended on the
Balance Sheet Date, and (b) when used in general, other than as provided above,
means principles that are (i) consistent with the principles promulgated or
adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and its predecessors, as in
effect from time to time, and (ii) consistently applied with past financial
statements of the Borrower adopting the same principles, provided that in each
case referred to in this definition of   GAAP   a certified
public accountant would, insofar as the use of such accounting principles is
pertinent, be in a position to deliver an unqualified opinion (other than a
qualification regarding changes in GAAP) as to financial statements in which
such principles have been properly applied.   

Governing Documents . With respect to any Person, its certificate or
articles of incorporation, its by-laws and all shareholder agreements, voting
trusts and similar arrangements applicable to any of its Capital Stock.

Governmental Authority . Any foreign, federal, state, regional, local,
municipal or other government, or any department, commission, board, bureau,
agency, public authority or instrumentality thereof, or any court or arbitrator.

Guaranteed Pension Plan . Any employee pension benefit plan within the
meaning of  3(2) of ERISA maintained or contributed to by the Borrower or
any ERISA Affiliate the benefits of which are guaranteed on termination in full
or in part by the PBGC pursuant to Title IV of ERISA, other than a Multiemployer
Plan.   

Guarantors . Collectively, each of (a) Container Applications
International (U.K.) Limited, a United Kingdom corporation, (b) Container
Applications (Malaysia) SDN BHD, a Malaysian corporation, (c) Container
Applications International Corporation, a Japanese corporation, (d) Sky
Container Trading Limited, a limited company formed under the laws of England
and Wales, (e) Sky Domestic Container Leasing Limited, a limited company formed
under the laws of England and Wales and (f) each Subsidiary of the Borrower
which is required to become a Guarantor pursuant to  8.15 hereof. Each
Guarantor shall be a party to the Guaranty.   

Guaranty . The Guaranty, dated or to be dated as of the Closing Date, made
by each Guarantor in favor of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent pursuant
to which such Guarantor guarantees to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent
the payment and performance of the Obligations.   

Hazardous Substances . See  7.18(b).   

Honor Date.  4.2.   

Indemnitee . See  16.3.   

Identified Containers . See definition of "Nonrecourse Loan".   

Indebtedness . As to any Person and whether recourse is secured by or is
otherwise available against all or only a portion of the assets of such Person
and whether or not contingent, but without duplication:   

(a)        every obligation of such Person
for money borrowed,

(b)        every obligation of such Person
evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, including
obligations incurred in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or
businesses,

(c)        every reimbursement obligation of
such Person with respect to letters of credit, bankers  acceptances or
similar facilities issued for the account of such Person,

(d)        every obligation of such Person
issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services
(including securities repurchase agreements but excluding trade accounts payable
or accrued liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business which are not
overdue or which are being contested in good faith),

(e)        every obligation of such Person
under any Capitalized Lease,

(f)        every obligation of such Person
under any Synthetic Lease,

(g)        all sales by such Person of (i)
accounts or general intangibles for money due or to become due, (ii) chattel
paper, instruments or documents creating or evidencing a right to payment of
money or (iii) other receivables (collectively   receivables  ),
whether pursuant to a purchase facility or otherwise, other than in connection
with the disposition of the business operations of such Person relating thereto
or a disposition of defaulted receivables for collection and not as a financing
arrangement, and together with any obligation of such Person to pay any
discount, interest, fees, indemnities, penalties, recourse, expenses or other
amounts in connection therewith,

(h)        every obligation of such Person
(an   equity   related   purchase   obligation  )
to purchase, redeem, retire or otherwise acquire for value any shares of Capital
Stock issued by such Person or any rights measured by the value of such Capital
Stock,

(i)        every obligation of such Person
under any forward contract, futures contract, swap, option or other financing
agreement or arrangement (including, without limitation, caps, floors, collars
and similar agreements), the value of which is dependent upon interest rates,
currency exchange rates, commodities or other indices (a   derivative 
 contract  ),

(j)        every obligation in respect of
Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person
is a general partner) to the extent that such Person is liable therefor as a
result of such Person s ownership interest in or other relationship with
such entity, except to the extent that the terms of such Indebtedness provide
that such Person is not liable therefor and such terms are enforceable under
applicable law,

(k)        every obligation, contingent or
otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing, or having the economic effect of
guarantying or otherwise acting as surety for, any obligation of a type
described in any of clauses (a) through (j) (the   primary
obligation  ) of another Person (the   primary
obligor  ), in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and
including, without limitation, any obligation of such Person (i) to purchase or
pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the
payment of such primary obligation, (ii) to purchase property, securities or
services for the purpose of assuring the payment of such primary obligation, or
(iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or other financial statement
condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary
obligor to pay such primary obligation, and

(l)        all Rental Obligations of such
Person.

The   amount   or   principal amount   of any
Indebtedness at any time of determination represented by (i) any Indebtedness,
issued at a price that is less than the principal amount at maturity thereof,
shall be the amount of the liability in respect thereof determined in accordance
with GAAP, (ii) any Capitalized Lease shall be the principal component of the
aggregate of the rental obligation under such Capitalized Lease payable over the
term thereof that is not subject to termination by the lessee, (iii) any sale of
receivables shall be the amount of unrecovered capital or principal investment
of the purchaser (other than the Borrower or any of its wholly-owned
Subsidiaries) thereof, excluding amounts representative of yield or interest
earned on such investment, (iv) any Synthetic Lease shall be the stipulated loss
value, termination value or other equivalent amount, (v) any derivative contract
shall be the maximum amount of any termination or loss payment required to be
paid by such Person if such derivative contract were, at the time of
determination, to be terminated by reason of any event of default or early
termination event thereunder, whether or not such event of default or early
termination event has in fact occurred, (vi) any equity related purchase
obligation shall be the maximum fixed redemption or purchase price thereof
inclusive of any accrued and unpaid dividends to be comprised in such redemption
or purchase price, and (vii) any guaranty or other contingent liability referred
to in clause (k) shall be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount
of the primary obligation in respect of which such guaranty or other contingent
obligation is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably
anticipated liability in respect thereof (assuming such Person is required to
perform thereunder) as determined by such Person in good faith.   

Interest Payment Date . (a) As to any Base Rate Loan (including any Swing
Line Loan), the last Business Day of the calendar quarter   with respect to
interest accrued during such calendar quarter, including, without limitation,
the calendar quarter   which includes the Drawdown Date of such Base Rate
Loan; and (b) as to any Eurodollar Rate Loan in respect of which the Interest
Period is (i) 3 months or less, the last Business Day of such Interest Period
and (ii) more than 3 months, the date that is 3 months from the first day of
such Interest Period and, in addition, the last Business Day of such Interest
Period.   

Interest Period . With respect to each Revolving Credit Loan, (a)
initially, the period commencing on the Drawdown Date of such Loan and ending on
the last day of one of the periods set forth below, as selected by the Borrower
in a Loan Request or as otherwise required by the terms of this Credit Agreement
(i) for any Base Rate Loan, the last day of the calendar quarter; and (ii) for
any Eurodollar Rate Loan, 1, 2, 3 or 6 months; and (b) thereafter, each period
commencing on the last day of the next preceding Interest Period applicable to
such Revolving Credit Loan and ending on the last day of one of the periods set
forth above, as selected by the Borrower in a Conversion Request;
 provided  that all of the foregoing provisions relating to Interest
Periods are subject to the following:   

(A)        if any Interest Period with
respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan would otherwise end on a day that is not a
Eurodollar Business Day, that Interest Period shall be extended to the next
succeeding Eurodollar Business Day unless the result of such extension would be
to carry such Interest Period into another calendar month, in which event such
Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Eurodollar Business Day;

(B)        if any Interest Period with
respect to a Base Rate Loan would end on a day that is not a Business Day, that
Interest Period shall end on the next succeeding Business Day;

(C)        if the Borrower shall fail to give
notice as provided in  2.7, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested
a conversion of the affected Eurodollar Rate Loan to a Base Rate Loan and the
continuance of all Base Rate Loans as Base Rate Loans on the last day of the
then current Interest Period with respect thereto;

(D)        any Interest Period relating to
any Eurodollar Rate Loan that begins on the last Eurodollar Business Day of a
calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day
in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last
Eurodollar Business Day of a calendar month; and

(E)        any Interest Period that would
otherwise extend beyond the Revolving Credit Loan Maturity Date shall end on the
Revolving Credit Loan Maturity Date.

Interest Rate Protection Agreement . Any agreement entered into between
the Borrower and any of the Lenders providing for an interest rate swap, cap,
collar, or other hedging mechanism with respect to interest payable on
Indebtedness.   

Interpool . Interpool, Inc., a Delaware corporation.   

Interpool Subordinated Debt . The Indebtedness of the Borrower to
Interpool in the original principal amount of $33,650,000, issued at an interest
rate  per annum  of 10 %, and evidenced by the Subordinated Note
Purchase Agreement and the promissory notes issued pursuant thereto, which has
been subordinated to the Obligations pursuant to the terms of the Subordination
and Intercreditor Agreement.   

Investments . All expenditures made and all liabilities incurred
(contingently or otherwise) for the acquisition of stock or Indebtedness of, or
for loans, advances, capital contributions or transfers of property to, or in
respect of any guaranties (or other commitments as described under
Indebtedness), or obligations of, any Person. In determining the aggregate
amount of Investments outstanding at any particular time: (a) the amount of any
Investment represented by a guaranty shall be taken at not less than the
principal amount of the obligations guaranteed and still outstanding; (b) there
shall be included as an Investment all interest accrued with respect to
Indebtedness constituting an Investment unless and until such interest is paid;
(c) there shall be deducted in respect of each such Investment any amount
received as a return of capital (but only by repurchase, redemption, retirement,
repayment, liquidating dividend or liquidating distribution); (d) there shall
not be deducted in respect of any Investment any amounts received as earnings on
such Investment, whether as dividends, interest or otherwise, except that
accrued interest included as provided in the foregoing clause (b) may be
deducted when paid; and (e) there shall not be deducted from the aggregate
amount of Investments any decrease in the value thereof.   

Issuer Documents . With respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of
Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered
into by the L/C Issuer and the Borrower or in favor the L/C Issuer and relating
to any such Letter of Credit.   

L/C Advance . With respect to each Lender, such Lender s funding of
its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Commitment
Percentage.   

L/C Borrowing . An extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any
Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or
refinanced as a Revolving Credit Loan.   

L/C Issuer . (i) Bank of America in its capacity as issuer of Letters of
Credit hereunder, or any successor issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder and
(ii) with respect to Existing Letters of Credit, Fleet National Bank in its
capacity as issuer of the Existing Letters of Credit.   

Lease Collateral .  See definition of "Nonrecourse Loan".   

Lender Affiliate . With respect to any Lender, (i) an Affiliate of such
Lender or (ii) any entity (whether a corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, trust or legal entity) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding
or otherwise investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the
ordinary course of its business and is administered or managed by such Lender or
an Affiliate of such Lender.   

Lenders . Bank of America and the other lending institutions listed on
 Schedule   1  hereto and any other Person who becomes an
assignee of any rights and obligations of a Lender pursuant to  15, and, as
the context requires, includes the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer.

Letter of Credit . See  4.1.1.   

Letter of Credit Application .  See  4.1.2.   

Letter of Credit Expiration Date . The day that is seven days prior to the
Revolving Credit Loan Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a
Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).   

Letter of Credit Fee .  See  4.6.   

Letter of Credit Participation .  See  4.1.4.   

Letter of Credit Sublimit . An amount equal to $15,000,000. The Letter of
Credit Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Total Commitment.

Lien . Any mortgage, deed of trust, security interest, pledge,
hypothecation, assignment, attachment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien
(statutory, judgment or otherwise), or other security agreement or preferential
arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or
other title retention agreement, any Capitalized Lease, any Synthetic Lease, any
financing lease involving substantially the same economic effect as any of the
foregoing and the filing of any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial
Code or comparable law of any jurisdiction).   

Loan Documents . This Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Notes, the
Letter of Credit Applications, the Letters of Credit ,  each Issuer
Document, the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement, the Guaranty, the Fee
Letter and the Security Documents.   

Loan Request . See  2.6.   

Master Lease Agreements . Collectively, (i) that certain Amended and
Restated Purchase and Master Lease Agreement (CAI-SBLF), dated as of April 30,
1998, between Sumitomo Bank of New York Trust Company, as owner trustee (the
 Owner Trustee ) and the Borrower and (ii) that certain Amended and
Restated Purchase and Master Lease Agreement (CAI-SBCM), dated as of April 30,
1998, between the Owner Trustee and the Borrower, in each case, as amended from
time to time in accordance with  9.8 hereof.   

Material Adverse Effect . With respect to any event or occurrence of
whatever nature (including any adverse determination in any litigation,
arbitration or governmental investigation or proceeding):   

(a) a material adverse effect on the business, properties, prospects, condition
(financial or otherwise), assets, operations or income of the Borrower,
individually or the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole;   

(b) an adverse effect on the ability of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries,
individually and/or taken as a whole, to perform any of their respective
Obligations under any of the Loan Documents to which it is a party; or

(c) any impairment of the validity, binding effect or enforceability of this
Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, any impairment of the
rights, remedies or benefits available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender
under any Loan Document or any impairment of the attachment, perfection or
priority of any Lien of the Administrative Agent under the Security Documents.

Maximum Drawing Amount . The maximum aggregate amount that the
beneficiaries may at any time draw under outstanding Letters of Credit, as such
aggregate amount may be reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to the
terms of the Letters of Credit.   

Moody s . Moody s Investors Services, Inc.   

Multiemployer Plan . Any multiemployer plan within the meaning of
 3(37) of ERISA maintained or contributed to by the Borrower or any ERISA
Affiliate.   

Net Book Value . With respect to any Containers owned by the Borrower
which are standard dry cargo Containers and which were acquired on or after July
1, 2001, the Original Cost to the Borrower of such Containers adjusted to
reflect depreciation over twelve and a half years on a straight line basis, to
residuals of $645 for a 20-foot standard dry cargo Container, $795 for a 40-foot
standard dry cargo Container and $805 for a 40-foot standard
 high-cube  dry cargo Container. With respect to any Containers owned
by the Borrower which are non-standard Containers, the Original Cost to the
Borrower of such Containers adjusted to reflect depreciation over fifteen years
on a straight line basis to a residual of 15% of the Original Cost of such
Containers. With respect to any Containers owned by the Borrower which are
standard dry cargo Containers and which were acquired on or before June 30,
2001, the Original Cost to the Borrower of such Containers adjusted to reflect
depreciation using the following depreciation method: from the date of purchase
until June 30, 2001, the Original Cost to the Borrower of such Containers
adjusted to reflect depreciation on a straight line basis over fifteen years to
a residual value of 15% of the Original Cost of such Containers. From and after
July 1, 2001, depreciation shall be calculated over the remainder of a
cumulative twelve and a half year life, on a straight line basis, to residuals
of $645 for a 20-foot standard dry cargo Container, $795 for a 40-foot standard
dry cargo Container and $805 for a 40-foot standard  high-cube  dry
cargo Container.   

Net Present Value . At the relevant time of reference thereto, and as the
context may require, the discounted present value of Direct Finance Lease
Receivables, discounted at the Direct Finance Lease Rate per annum of the
remaining term of the applicable Direct Finance Lease.   

Non-Extension Notice Date . See  4.1.6.   

Nonrecourse Loan . A loan to the Borrower (a) which is secured solely by
(i) specifically identified Containers (the   Identified
Containers  ), (ii) one or more leases of such Identified Containers,
including all rentals thereunder (the   Lease Collateral  ), and
(iii) all proceeds of such Identified Containers and Lease Collateral; (b) which
is payable solely from the related Identified Containers and Lease Collateral,
and as to which rentals under the related Lease Collateral have been assigned to
the applicable lender, and are paid directly to such lender; and (c) with
respect to which payments of principal and interest are without recourse to the
Borrower or the Borrower s property (other than the related Identified
Containers and Lease Collateral).   

Obligations . All indebtedness, obligations and liabilities of any of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries to any of the Lenders, the Swing Line Lender, the
L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent, individually or collectively, existing
on the date of this Credit Agreement or arising thereafter, direct or indirect,
joint or several, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, liquidated or
unliquidated, secured or unsecured, arising by contract, operation of law or
otherwise, arising or incurred under this Credit Agreement or any of the other
Loan Documents or any Interest Rate Protection Agreement or any Swap Contract
entered into with any Lender or the Administrative Agent or any of the Revolving
Credit Loans or Swing Line Loans made or Reimbursement Obligations incurred or
any of the Revolving Credit Notes, Letter of Credit Applications, Letters of
Credit or other instruments at any time evidencing any of the foregoing.

Original Cost . With respect to any Container, the purchase price therefor
expressed in Dollars, as determined in accordance with GAAP, consistently
applied.   

outstanding . With respect to the Revolving Credit Loans or Swing Line
Loans, the aggregate unpaid principal thereof as of any date of determination.

Participant . See  15.1.4.   

PBGC . The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation created by  4002 of
ERISA and any successor entity or entities having similar responsibilities.

Perfection Certificate . The Perfection Certificate as defined in the
Security Agreement.   

Permitted Liens . Liens permitted by  9.2.   

Person . Any individual, corporation, limited liability company, limited
liability partnership, trust, other unincorporated association, business, or
other legal entity, and any Governmental Authority.   

RCRA . See  7.18(a).   

Real Estate . All real property at any time owned or leased (as lessee or
sublessee) by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.   

Reference Period . As of any date of determination, the period of four (4)
consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries ending on such
date, or if such date is not a fiscal quarter end date, the period of four (4)
consecutive fiscal quarters most recently ended (in each case treated as a
single accounting period).   

Register . See  15.3.   

Reimbursement Obligation . The Borrower s obligation to reimburse the
Administrative Agent and the Lenders on account of any drawing under any Letter
of Credit as provided in  4.2.   

Related Parties . With respect to any Person, such Person s
Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors
of such Person and of such Person s Affiliates.   

Rental Obligations . All present or future obligations of the Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries under any rental agreements or leases of real or
personal property, other than (a) obligations that can be terminated by the
giving of notice without liability to the Borrower or such Subsidiary in excess
of the liability for rent due as of the date on which such notice is given and
under which no penalty or premium is paid as a result of any such termination,
(b) obligations under rental agreements relating to equipment other than
Containers having an aggregate value of less than $1,000,000 for all such
agreements, and (c) obligations in respect of any Capitalized Leases. For
purposes of this Credit Agreement, the aggregate amount of Rental Obligations of
the Borrower and its Subsidiaries shall, as at any date of determination, be an
amount equal to the net present value, calculated at a discount rate of nine
percent (9.00%) per annum, of the future Rental Obligations of such Person.

Required Lenders . As of any date, the Lenders holding more than fifty
percent (50%) of the outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Credit Notes
on such date; and if no such principal is outstanding, the Lenders whose
aggregate Commitments constitute more than fifty percent (50%) of the Total
Commitment.   

Responsible Officer . The chief executive officer, president or chief
financial officer of the Borrower. Any document delivered hereunder that is
signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower shall be conclusively presumed
to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other
action on the part of the Borrower and such Responsible Officer shall be
conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of the Borrower.   

Restricted Payment . In relation to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, any
(a) Distribution or (b) payment or prepayment by the Borrower or its
Subsidiaries to (i) the Borrower s or any Subsidiary s shareholders
(or other equity holders), in each case, other than to the Borrower, or (ii) to
any Affiliate of the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any Affiliate of the
Borrower s or such Subsidiary s shareholders (or other equity
holders), in each case, other than to the Borrower.   

Revolving Credit Loan Maturity Date .  April 28, 2008.   

Revolving Credit Loans . Revolving credit loans made or to be made by the
Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to  2.   

Revolving Credit Note Record . The grid attached to a Revolving Credit
Note, or the continuation of such grid, or any other similar record, including
computer records, maintained by any Lender with respect to any Revolving Credit
Loan referred to in such Revolving Credit Note.   

Revolving Credit Notes . See  2.4.   

SARA . See  7.18(a).   

Security Agreement . The Security Agreement, dated or to be dated as of
the Closing Date, between the Borrower, each Guarantor and the Administrative
Agent, and in form and substance satisfactory to the Lenders and the
Administrative Agent, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or
otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.   

Security Documents . The Security Agreement, the Stock Pledge Agreement,
the Cash Collateral Pledge Agreement and all other instruments and documents,
including without limitation, Uniform Commercial Code financing statements (or
the equivalent thereof in any applicable foreign jurisdiction), required to be
executed or delivered pursuant to (a) any Security Document or (b)
  8.16, 8.17 or 8.18.   

Senior Funded Debt . At any time of determination, with respect to the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries, the sum, without duplication, of (a) the
aggregate amount of Indebtedness (excluding Subordinated Debt)  
    of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis,
relating to (i) the borrowing of money or the obtaining of credit, including the
issuance of notes or bonds, (ii) the deferred purchase price of assets (other
than trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of business), (iii)
Capitalized Leases, (iv) Rental Obligations, and (v) the maximum drawing amount
of all letters of credit outstanding  plus  (b) Indebtedness of the type
referred to in clause (a) of another Person guaranteed by the Borrower or any of
its Subsidiaries .    

S P . Standard   Poor s Ratings Group.   

Solvent . With respect to any Person on a particular date, that on such
date (a) the fair value of the assets of such Person is greater than the total
amount of liabilities, including, without limitation, contingent liabilities, of
such Person, (b) the present fair saleable value of the assets of such Person is
not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of
such Person on its debts as they become absolute and matured, (c) such Person is
able to realize upon its assets and pay its debts and other liabilities,
contingent obligations and other commitments as they mature in the normal course
of business, (d) such Person does not intend to, and does not believe that it
will, incur debts or liabilities beyond such Person s ability to pay as
such debts and liabilities mature, and (e) such Person is not engaged in
business or a transaction, and is not about to engage in business or a
transaction, for which such Person s property would constitute unreasonably
small capital after giving due consideration to the prevailing practice in the
industry in which such Person is engaged. In computing the amount of contingent
liabilities at any time, it is intended that such liabilities will be computed
at the amount which, in light of all the facts and circumstances existing at
such time, represents the amount that can reasonably be expected to become an
actual or matured liability.   

Staff Loan Program . A program administered by the Borrower pursuant to
which the Borrower makes loans to employees;  provided , that the aggregate
principal amount of loans outstanding at any time under such program shall not
exceed $1,500,000, and that no more than an aggregate of $100,000 of which may
be unsecured.   

Stock Pledge Agreement . The Stock Pledge Agreement, dated or to be dated
as of the Closing Date, between the Borrower, certain Guarantors and the
Administrative Agent, and in form and substance satisfactory to the Lenders and
the Administrative Agent as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented and
otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.   

Subordinated Debt . The Interpool Subordinated Debt and other Indebtedness
of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is expressly subordinated and
made junior to the payment and performance in full of the Obligations, and
evidenced as such by the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement or by another
written instrument containing subordination provisions in form and substance
approved by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in writing.   

Subordinated Note Purchase Agreement . That certain Note Purchase
Agreement, dated as of April 30, 1998, between the Borrower and Interpool, as
amended by that certain Amendment No. 1, dated as of April 28, 2000, that
certain Amendment No. 2, dated as of March 15, 2002, that certain Amendment No.
3, dated as of June 27, 2002, that certain Amendment No. 4, dated as of February
25, 2003, and as the same may be further amended from time to time in accordance
with  9.8 hereof, together with all other documents, instruments, and other
agreements entered into in connection therewith, each in the form delivered to
the Administrative Agent prior to the Closing Date.   

Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement . That certain Amended and
Restated Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2002,
among the Administrative Agent, Interpool and the Borrower and in form and
substance satisfactory to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent, as amended
by Amendment No. 1 thereto, dated as of the date hereof, and as the same may be
amended, restated, supplemented and in effect from time to time.   

Subordination Documents . The Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement,
the Subordinated Note Purchase Agreement and all other documents, instruments,
and other agreements entered into in connection therewith.   

Subsidiary . Any corporation, association, trust, or other business entity
of which the designated parent shall at any time own directly or indirectly
through a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries at least a majority (by number of votes) of
the outstanding Voting Stock.   

Swap Contract . (a) Any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps,
credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps,
commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or
options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or
forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options,
forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions,
collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap
transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar
transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options
to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is
governed by or subject to any master agreement and (b) any and all transactions
of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and
conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the
International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign
Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master
agreement, together with any related schedules, a   Master
Agreement  ), including any such obligations or liabilities under any
Master Agreement.   

Swing Line . The revolving credit facility made available by the Swing
Line Lender pursuant to  2.10.   

Swing Line Borrowing . A borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to
 2.10.   

Swing Line Lender . Bank of America in its capacity as provider of Swing
Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder.   

Swing Line Loan . See  2.10.1.   

Swing Line Loan Notice . A notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to
 2.10.2, which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of
 Exhibit F .   

Swing Line Sublimit . An amount equal to the lesser of (a) $10,000,000 and
(b) the Total Commitment. The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in
addition to, the Total Commitment.   

Syndication Agent . See Introductory Paragraph.   

Synthetic Lease . Any lease of goods or other property, whether real or
personal, which is treated as an operating lease under GAAP and as a loan or
financing for U.S. income tax purposes.   

Total Commitment . The sum of the Commitments of the Lenders, as in effect
from time to time. The Total Commitment on the Closing Date is $175,000,000.

Total Leverage Ratio . As at any date of determination, the ratio of (a)
Consolidated Funded Debt as at such date to (b) Consolidated EBITDAR for the
Reference Period most recently ended.   

Type . As to any Revolving Credit Loan, its nature as a Base Rate Loan or
a Eurodollar Rate Loan.   

Unpaid Reimbursement Obligation . Any Reimbursement Obligation for which
the Borrower does not reimburse the Administrative Agent and the Lenders on the
date specified in, and in accordance with,  4.2.   

Voting Stock . Stock or similar interests, of any class or classes
(however designated), the holders of which are at the time entitled, as such
holders, to vote for the election of a majority of the directors (or persons
performing similar functions) of the corporation, association, trust or other
business entity involved, whether or not the right so to vote exists by reason
of the happening of a contingency.   

Rules of Interpretation .    

(a)        A reference to any document or
agreement shall include such document or agreement as amended, modified or
supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms and the terms of
this Credit Agreement.

(b)        The singular includes the plural
and the plural includes the singular.

(c)        A reference to any law includes
any amendment or modification to such law.

(d)        A reference to any Person includes
its permitted successors and permitted assigns.

(e)        Accounting terms not otherwise
defined herein have the meanings assigned to them by GAAP applied on a
consistent basis by the accounting entity to which they refer.

(f)        The words  include ,
 includes  and  including  are not limiting.

(g)        All terms not specifically defined
herein or by GAAP, which terms are defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as in
effect in the State of New York, have the meanings assigned to them therein,
with the term   instrument   being that defined under Article 9
of the Uniform Commercial Code.

(h)        Reference to a particular
    refers to that section of this Credit Agreement unless
otherwise indicated.

(i)        The words  herein ,
 hereof ,  hereunder  and words of like import shall refer
to this Credit Agreement as a whole and not to any particular section or
subdivision of this Credit Agreement.

(j)        Unless otherwise expressly
indicated, in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a
later specified date, the word  from  means  from and
including,  the words  to  and  until  each mean
 to but excluding,  and the word  through  means  to
and including. 

(k)        This Credit Agreement and the
other Loan Documents are the result of negotiation among, and have been reviewed
by counsel to, among others, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower and are
the product of discussions and negotiations among all parties. Accordingly, this
Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents are not intended to be construed
against the Administrative Agent or any of the Lenders merely on account of the
Administrative Agent s or any Lender s involvement in the preparation
of such documents.

(l)        Unless otherwise specified herein,
the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the stated
amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time;  provided ,
 however , that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or
the terms of any Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or more
automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of
Credit shall be deemed to be the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit
after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated
amount is in effect at such time. For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any
date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount
may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the
 International Standby Practices 1998  (ISP) published by the
Institute of International Banking Law   Practice (or such later version
thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance), such Letter of Credit
shall be deemed to be  outstanding  in the amount so remaining
available to be drawn.

2.   THE REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY .   

2.1.   Commitment to Lend .   Subject to the
terms and conditions set forth in this Credit Agreement, each of the Lenders
severally agrees to lend to the Borrower and the Borrower may borrow, repay, and
reborrow from time to time from the Closing Date until the Revolving Credit Loan
Maturity Date upon notice by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent given in
accordance with  2.6, such sums as are requested by the Borrower up to a
maximum aggregate amount outstanding (after giving effect to all amounts
requested) at any one time equal to such Lender s Commitment  minus 
such Lender s Commitment Percentage of (i) the sum of the Maximum Drawing
Amount and all Unpaid Reimbursement Obligations  plus  (ii) the outstanding
amount of Swing Line Loans,  provided  that the sum of the outstanding
amount of the Revolving Credit Loans (after giving effect to all amounts
requested)  plus  the Maximum Drawing Amount and all Unpaid Reimbursement
Obligations  plus  the outstanding amount of Swing Line Loans shall not at
any time exceed the lesser of (i) the Total Commitment at such time and (ii) the
Borrowing Base at such time. The Revolving Credit Loans shall be made  pro 
 rata  in accordance with each Lender s Commitment Percentage. Each request for
a Revolving Credit Loan hereunder shall constitute a representation and warranty by the
Borrower that the conditions set forth in  11 and  12, in the case of the
initial Revolving Credit Loans to be made on the Closing Date, and  12, in the case
of all other Revolving Credit Loans, have been satisfied on the date of such request.   

2.2.   Commitment Fee .   The Borrower agrees to
pay to the Administrative Agent for the accounts of the Lenders in accordance
with their respective Commitment Percentages a commitment fee (the
  Commitment   Fee  ) calculated at the rate per annum of
the Applicable Margin with respect to the Commitment Fee as in effect from time
to time on the actual daily amount during each calendar quarter or portion
thereof from the   Closing Date to the Revolving Credit Loan Maturity Date
by which the Total Commitment  minus  the sum of the Maximum Drawing Amount
and all Unpaid Reimbursement Obligations exceeds the outstanding amount of
Revolving Credit Loans (excluding Swing Line Loans) during such calendar
quarter. The Commitment Fee shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the last
Business Day of each calendar quarter for such calendar quarter commencing on
the first such date following the Closing Date, with a final payment on the
Revolving Credit Loan Maturity Date or any earlier date on which the Commitments
shall terminate.   

2.3.   Reduction of Total Commitment .   The
Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time upon five (5)
Business Days prior written notice to the Administrative Agent to reduce by
$500,000 or an integral multiple thereof or to terminate entirely the Total
Commitment, whereupon the Commitments of the Lenders shall be reduced  pro 
 rata  in accordance with their respective Commitment Percentages of the
amount specified in such notice or, as the case may be, terminated. Promptly
after receiving any notice of the Borrower delivered pursuant to this  2.3,
the Administrative Agent will notify the Lenders of the substance thereof. Upon
the effective date of any such reduction or termination, the Borrower shall pay
to the Administrative Agent for the respective accounts of the Lenders the full
amount of any Commitment Fee then accrued on the amount of the reduction. No
reduction or termination of the Commitments may be reinstated. If, after giving
effect to any reduction of the Total Commitments, the Letter of Credit Sublimit
or the Swing Line Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Total Commitments, such
Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess.

2.4.   Evidence of Debt.    (a) The Revolving
Credit Loans made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or
records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the
ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the
Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error
of the amount of the Revolving Credit Loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower
and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in
doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the
Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In
the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any
Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of
such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control
in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through
the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender
(through the Administrative Agent) a promissory note of the Borrower in
substantially the form of  Exhibit   B  hereto (each a
  Revolving   Credit Note  ), which shall evidence such
Lender s Revolving Credit Loans in addition to such accounts or records.
Each Lender may attach schedules to its Revolving Credit Note and endorse
thereon the date, amount, interest rate and maturity of such Lender s
Revolving Credit Loans and payments with respect thereto.   

(b)        In addition to the accounts and
records referred to in subsection (a) above, each Lender and the Administrative
Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records
evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters
of Credit and Swing Line Loans. In the event of any conflict between the
accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and
records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of
the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.

2.5.   Interest on Revolving Credit Loans and Swing Line
Loans .   Except as otherwise provided in  5.10,

(a)        Each Revolving Credit Loan which
is a Base Rate Loan shall bear interest for the period commencing with the
Drawdown Date thereof and ending on the last day of the Interest Period with
respect thereto at the rate per annum equal to the Base Rate  plus  the
Applicable Margin with respect to Base Rate Loans as in effect from time to
time;  provided ,  however , in the event that the interest rate per
annum applicable to Base Rate Loans is less than the Eurodollar Rate then
applicable for an Interest Period of one month  plus  the Applicable Margin
with respect to Eurodollar Rate Loans in effect at such time, each Revolving
Credit Loan which is a Base Rate Loan shall bear interest at the rate per annum
equal to the Eurodollar Rate then applicable for an Interest Period of one month
 plus  the Applicable Margin with respect to                Eurodollar Rate Loans in
effect at such time.

(b)        Each Revolving Credit Loan which
is a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest for the period commencing with the
Drawdown Date thereof and ending on the last day of the Interest Period with
respect thereto at the rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate determined
for such Interest Period  plus  the Applicable Margin with respect to
Eurodollar Rate Loans as in effect from time to time.

(c)        Each Swing Line Loan shall bear
interest from the applicable Drawdown Date thereof at the rate per annum equal
to the Base Rate  plus  the Applicable Margin with respect to Base Rate
Loans as in effect from time to time;  provided ,  however , in the
event that the interest rate per annum applicable to Swing Line Loans is less
than the Eurodollar Rate then applicable for an Interest Period of one month
 plus  the Applicable Margin with respect to Eurodollar Rate Loans in
effect at such time, each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest at the rate per
annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate then applicable for an Interest Period of one
month  plus  the Applicable Margin with respect to Eurodollar Rate Loans in
effect at such time.

The Borrower promises to pay interest on each Revolving Credit
Loan and each Swing Line Loan in arrears on each Interest Payment Date with
respect thereto.   

2.6.   Requests for Revolving Credit
Loans .   The Borrower shall give to the Administrative Agent
written notice in the form of  Exhibit   C  hereto (or telephonic
notice confirmed in a writing in the form of  Exhibit   C 
hereto) of each Revolving Credit Loan requested hereunder (a   Loan
Request  ) no less than (a) two (2) Business Days prior to the proposed
Drawdown Date of any Base Rate Loan and (b) four (4) Eurodollar Business Days
prior to the proposed Drawdown Date of any Eurodollar Rate Loan. Each such
notice shall specify (i) the principal amount of the Revolving Credit Loan
requested, (ii) the proposed Drawdown Date of such Revolving Credit Loan, (iii)
the Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Loan and (iv) the Type of such
Revolving Credit Loan. Promptly upon receipt of any such notice, the
Administrative Agent shall notify each of the Lenders thereof. Each Loan Request
shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower and shall obligate the Borrower
to accept the Revolving Credit Loan requested from the Lenders on the proposed
Drawdown Date. Each Loan Request relating to a Base Rate Loan shall be in a
minimum aggregate amount of $500,000 and each Loan Request relating to a
Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be in a minimum aggregate amount of $1,000,000.

2.7.   Conversion Options .    

2.7.1.   Conversion to Different Type of Revolving Credit
Loan .   The Borrower may elect from time to time to convert any
outstanding Revolving Credit Loan to a Revolving Credit Loan of another Type,
 provided  that (a) with respect to any such conversion of a Eurodollar
Rate Loan to a Base Rate Loan, the Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent
at least four (4) Business Days prior written notice of such election; (b) with
respect to any such conversion of a Base Rate Loan to a Eurodollar Rate Loan,
the Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent at least five (5) Eurodollar
Business Days prior written notice of such election; (c) with respect to any
such conversion of a Eurodollar Rate Loan into a Base Rate Loan, such conversion
shall only be made on the last day of the Interest Period with respect thereto
and (d) no Revolving Credit Loan may be converted into a Eurodollar Rate Loan
when any Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. On the date
on which such conversion is being made each Lender shall take such action as is
necessary to transfer its Commitment Percentage of such Revolving Credit Loans
to its Domestic Lending Office or its Eurodollar Lending Office, as the case may
be. All or any part of outstanding Revolving Credit Loans of any Type may be
converted into a Revolving Credit Loan of another Type as provided herein,
 provided  that any partial conversion shall be in an aggregate principal
amount of at least $500,000, in the case of conversion to Base Rate Loans, and
$1,000,000 in the case of conversion to Eurodollar Rate Loans. Each Conversion
Request relating to the conversion of a Revolving Credit Loan to a Eurodollar
Rate Loan shall be irrevocable by the Borrower.

2.7.2.   Continuation of Type of Revolving Credit
Loan .   Any Revolving Credit Loan of any Type may be continued
as a Revolving Credit Loan of the same Type upon the expiration of an Interest
Period with respect thereto by compliance by the Borrower with the notice
provisions contained in  2.7.1;  provided  that no Eurodollar Rate
Loan may be continued as such when any Default or Event of Default has occurred
and is continuing, but shall be automatically converted to a Base Rate Loan on
the last day of the first Interest Period relating thereto ending during the
continuance of any Default or Event of Default of which officers of the
Administrative Agent active upon the Borrower s account have actual
knowledge. In the event that the Borrower fails to provide any such notice with
respect to the continuation of any Eurodollar Rate Loan as such, then such
Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be automatically converted to a Base Rate Loan on the
last day of the first Interest Period relating thereto. The Administrative Agent
shall notify the Lenders promptly when any such automatic conversion
contemplated by this  2.7 is scheduled to occur.

2.7.3.   Eurodollar Rate Loans .   Any conversion
to or from Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in such amounts and be made pursuant
to such elections so that, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate principal
amount of all Eurodollar Rate Loans having the same Interest Period shall not be
less than $1,000,000. No more than five (5) Eurodollar Rate Loans having
different Interest Periods may be outstanding at any time.

2.8.   Funds for Revolving Credit Loans .    

2.8.1.   Funding Procedures .   Not later than
1:00 p.m. (Boston time) on the proposed Drawdown Date of any Revolving Credit
Loans, each of the Lenders will make available to the Administrative Agent, at
the Administrative Agent s Office, in immediately available funds, the
amount of such Lender s Commitment Percentage of the amount of the
requested Revolving Credit Loans. Upon receipt from each Lender of such amount,
and upon receipt of the documents required by   11 and 12 and the
satisfaction of the other conditions set forth therein, to the extent
applicable, the Administrative Agent will make available to the Borrower the
aggregate amount of such Revolving Credit Loans made available to the
Administrative Agent by the Lenders.

2.8.2.   Advances by Administrative Agent .   (a)
The Administrative Agent may, unless notified to the contrary by any Lender
prior to a Drawdown Date, assume that such Lender has made available to the
Administrative Agent on such Drawdown Date the amount of such Lender s
Commitment Percentage of the Revolving Credit Loans to be made on such Drawdown
Date, and the Administrative Agent may (but it shall not be required to), in
reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding
amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the
applicable Revolving Credit Loan available to the Administrative Agent, then the
applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative
Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available
funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such
amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to
the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such
Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the
Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank
compensation and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the
interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If the Borrower and such Lender
shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an
overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the
Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If
such Lender pays its share of the applicable Revolving Credit Loan to the
Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such
Lender s share of the such Revolving Credit Loan. Any payment by the
Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a
Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.

(b)        Unless the Administrative Agent
shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any
payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders
hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent
may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance
herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or
the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the
Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally
agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so
distributed to such Lender, in immediately available funds with interest
thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to
it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the
greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative
Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.

(c)        A notice of the Administrative
Agent to any Lender or any Borrower with respect to any amount owing under
  2.8.2(a) and (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.

2.8.3.   Obligations of Lenders Several .   The
obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Revolving Credit Loans, to fund
participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans and to make payments
pursuant to  14.7 are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to
make any Revolving Credit Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any
payment under  14.7 on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any
other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no
Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its
Revolving Credit Loans, to purchase its participation or to make its payment
under  14.7.

2.9.   Change in Borrowing Base .   The Borrowing
Base shall be determined by the Administrative Agent upon receipt of each Loan
Request and, in any case, no less frequently than monthly (and at such other
intervals as may be specified pursuant to  8.4(f)) by reference to the
Borrowing Base Report most recently delivered to the Lenders and the
Administrative Agent pursuant to  8.4(h) and other information obtained by,
or provided to, the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall give to
the Borrower written notice of any change in the Borrowing Base determined by
the Administrative Agent. Prior to the time any such notice becomes effective,
the Borrowing Base shall be computed as it would have been computed in the
absence of such notice.   

2.10.   Swing Line Loans .    

2.10.1.   The Swing Line .   Subject to the terms
and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender agrees, in reliance upon
the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this  2.10, to make loans
(each such loan, a   Swing Line Loan  ) to the Borrower from time
to time on any Business Day from the Closing Date until the Revolving Credit
Loan Maturity Date in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding
the amount of the Swing Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Swing
Line Loans of the Lender acting as the Swing Line Lender, when aggregated with
such Lender s Commitment Percentage of the outstanding amount of Revolving
Credit Loans  plus  such Lender s Commitment Percentage of the sum of
the Maximum Drawing Amount and all Unpaid Reimbursement Obligations, may exceed
the amount of such Lender s Commitment;  provided ,  however ,
that after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan, (x) the sum of the outstanding
amount of the Revolving Credit Loans,  plus  the Maximum Drawing Amount and
all Unpaid Reimbursement, Obligations  plus  the outstanding amount of
Swing Line Loans shall not at any time exceed the lesser of (i) the Total
Commitment at such time and (ii) the Borrowing Base at such time, and (y) the
aggregate outstanding amount of the Revolving Credit Loans of any Lender,
 plus  such Lender s Commitment Percentage of the outstanding amount
of the Maximum Drawing Amount and all Unpaid Reimbursement Obligations,
 plus  such Lender s Commitment Percentage of the outstanding amount
of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender s Commitment, and
 provided ,  further , that the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of
any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan. Within the
foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the
Borrower may borrow under this  2.10, prepay under  3.3, and reborrow
under this  2.10. Each Swing Line Loan shall be a Base Rate Loan.
Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Lender shall be deemed
to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the
Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount
equal to the product of such Lender s Commitment Percentage  times 
the amount of such Swing Line Loan. The Borrower hereby promises to repay each
Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the date ten Business Days after
such Swing Line Loan is made and (ii) the Revolving Credit Loan Maturity Date.

2.10.2.   Borrowing Procedure .   Each Swing Line
Borrowing shall be made upon the Borrower s irrevocable notice to the Swing
Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each
such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative
Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the requested borrowing date, and shall
specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $100,000, and
(ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day. Each such
telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line
Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice,
appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower.
Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line
Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent
(by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received
such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the
Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof.
Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing)
from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to
2:00 p.m. on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the
Swing Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the
limitations set forth in the proviso to the first sentence of  2.10.1, or
(B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in   11
and 12 is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof,
the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 3:00 p.m. on the borrowing date
specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan
available to the Borrower.   

2.10.3.   Refinancing of Swing Line Loans .   (a)
The Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may
request, on behalf of the Borrower (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the
Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Lender make a
Revolving Credit Loan which is a Base Rate Loan in an amount equal to such
Lender s Commitment Percentage of the amount of Swing Line Loans then
outstanding. Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall
be deemed to be a Loan Request for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the
requirements of   2.1 and 2.6, without regard to the minimum and
multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but
subject to the unutilized portion of the Total Commitments and the conditions
set forth in  12. The Swing Line Lender shall furnish the Borrower with a
copy of the applicable Loan Request promptly after delivering such notice to the
Administrative Agent. Each Lender shall make an amount equal to its Commitment
Percentage of the amount specified in such Loan Request available to the
Administrative Agent in immediately available funds for the account of the Swing
Line Lender at the Administrative Agent s Office not later than 1:00 p.m.
on the day specified in such Loan Request, whereupon, subject to
 2.10.3(b), each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to
have made a Base Rate Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative
Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.   

(b)        If for any reason any Swing Line
Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Committed Borrowing in accordance with
 2.10.3(a), the request for Base Rate Loan submitted by the Swing Line
Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line
Lender that each of the Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant
Swing Line Loan and each Lender s payment to the Administrative Agent for
the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to  2.10.3(a) shall be deemed
payment in respect of such participation.   

(c)        If any Lender fails to make
available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender
any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing
provisions of this  2.10.3 by the time specified in  2.10.3(a), the
Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through
the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the
period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment
is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to
the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Swing Line
Lender in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation. A
certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through the
Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (c)
shall be conclusive absent manifest error.   

(d)        Each Lender s obligation to
make Revolving Credit Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing
Line Loans pursuant to this  2.10.3 shall be absolute and unconditional and
shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff,
counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have
against the Swing Line Lender, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason
whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default or Event of Default,
or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any
of the foregoing;  provided ,  however , that each Lender s
obligation to make Revolving Credit Loans pursuant to this  2.10.3 is
subject to the conditions set forth in  12. No such funding of risk
participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower
to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.

2.10.4.   Repayment of Participations .   (a) At
any time after any Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a
Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of
such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender its
Commitment Percentage of such payment (appropriately adjusted, in the case of
interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Lender s
risk participation was funded) in the same funds as those received by the Swing
Line Lender.   

(b)        If any payment received by the
Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swing Line Loan is
required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender in connection with any
bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding or otherwise (including pursuant to any
settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Lender
shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Commitment Percentage thereof on demand
of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand
to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal
Funds Rate. The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of
the Swing Line Lender. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall
survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this
Agreement.   

2.10.5.   Interest for Account of Swing Line
Lender .   The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for
invoicing the Borrower for interest on the Swing Line Loans. Until each Lender
funds its Base Rate Loan or risk participation pursuant to this  2.10 to
refinance such Lender s Commitment Percentage of any Swing Line Loan,
interest in respect of such Commitment Percentage shall be solely for the
account of the Swing Line Lender.   

2.10.6.   Payments Directly to Swing Line
Lender .   The Borrower shall make all payments of principal and
interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.

3.   REPAYMENT OF THE REVOLVING CREDIT
LOANS .   

3.1.   Maturity .   The Borrower promises to pay
on the Revolving Credit Loan Maturity Date, and there shall become absolutely
due and payable on the Revolving Credit Loan Maturity Date, all of the Revolving
Credit Loans outstanding on such date, together with any and all accrued and
unpaid interest thereon.   

3.2.   Mandatory Repayments of Revolving Credit
Loans .   If at any time the sum of the outstanding principal
amount of the Revolving Credit Loans, the Maximum Drawing Amount and all Unpaid
Reimbursement Obligations and the outstanding amount of Swing Line Loans exceeds
the lesser of (a) the Total Commitment at such time and (b) the Borrowing Base
at such time, then the Borrower shall immediately pay the amount of such excess
to the Administrative Agent for the respective accounts of the Lenders for
application:  first , to any Unpaid Reimbursement Obligations;
 second , to the Swing Line Loans;  third , to the Revolving Credit
Loans; and  fourth , to provide to the Administrative Agent Cash Collateral
for Reimbursement Obligations as contemplated by  4.2(b) and (c). Each
payment of any Unpaid Reimbursement Obligations or prepayment of Revolving
Credit Loans shall be allocated among the Lenders, in proportion, as nearly as
practicable, to each Reimbursement Obligation or (as the case may be) the
respective unpaid principal amount of each Lender s Revolving Credit Note,
with adjustments to the extent practicable to equalize any prior payments or
repayments not exactly in proportion.   

3.3.   Optional Repayments of Revolving Credit Loans and Swing
Line Loans .   (a) The Borrower shall have the right, at its
election, to repay the outstanding amount of the Revolving Credit Loans, as a
whole or in part, at any time without penalty or premium,  provided  that
any full or partial prepayment of the outstanding amount of any Eurodollar Rate
Loans pursuant to this  3.3 may be made only on the last day of the
Interest Period relating thereto unless breakage costs incurred by the Lenders
in connection therewith are paid by the Borrower in accordance with  5.9.
The Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent, no later than 10:00 a.m.,
Boston time, at least three (3) Business Days  prior written notice of any
proposed prepayment pursuant to this  3.3 of Base Rate Loans, and four (4)
Eurodollar Business Days  prior written notice of any proposed prepayment
pursuant to this  3.3 of Eurodollar Rate Loans, in each case specifying the
proposed date of prepayment of Revolving Credit Loans and the principal amount
to be prepaid. Each such partial prepayment of the Revolving Credit Loans shall
be in a principal amount of at least $200,000, shall be accompanied by the
payment of accrued interest on the principal prepaid to the date of prepayment
and shall be applied, in the absence of instruction by the Borrower, first, to
the principal of Base Rate Loans and then to the principal of Eurodollar Rate
Loans, at the Administrative Agent s option. Each partial prepayment shall
be allocated among the Lenders, in proportion, as nearly as practicable, to the
respective unpaid principal amount of each Lender s Revolving Credit Note,
with adjustments to the extent practicable to equalize any prior repayments not
exactly in proportion.   

(b)        The Borrower may, upon notice to
the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or
from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part
without premium or penalty;  provided  that (i) such notice must be
received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than
1:00 p.m. on the date of the prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be
in a minimum principal amount of $100,000. Each such notice shall specify the
date and amount of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such
notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.   

   4.   LETTERS OF CREDIT .   

4.1.   Letter of Credit Commitments .    

4.1.1.   Commitment to Issue Letters of
Credit .   (a) Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, upon
the execution and delivery by the Borrower of a letter of credit application on
the L/C Issuer s customary form (a   Letter of Credit
Application  ), the L/C Issuer on behalf of the Lenders and in reliance
upon the agreement of the Lenders set forth in this  4 and upon the
representations and warranties of the Borrower contained herein, agrees, in its
individual capacity, to issue, extend and renew for the account of the Borrower
one or more standby letters of credit (individually, a   Letter of
Credit  ), in such form as may be requested from time to time by the
Borrower and agreed to by the L/C Issuer;  provided ,  however , that,
after giving effect to such request, (i) the sum of the aggregate Maximum
Drawing Amount and all Unpaid Reimbursement Obligations shall not exceed the
Letter of Credit Sublimit at any one time and (ii) the sum of (A) the Maximum
Drawing Amount of all Letters of Credit, (B) all Unpaid Reimbursement
Obligations, and (C) the principal amount of all Revolving Credit Loans and
Swing Line Loans outstanding shall not exceed the lesser of (x) the Total
Commitment at such time and (y) the Borrowing Base at such time. Each request by
the Borrower for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed
to be a representation by the Borrower that the issuance or amendment so
requested complies with the conditions set forth in the proviso to the preceding
sentence. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions
hereof, the Borrower s ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully
revolving, and accordingly the Borrower may, during the foregoing period, obtain
Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have
been drawn upon and reimbursed. All Existing Letters of Credit shall be deemed
to have been issued pursuant hereto, and from and after the Closing Date shall
be subject to and governed by the terms and conditions hereof.

(b)        The L/C Issuer shall not issue any
Letter of Credit, if:

(i) Subject to  4.1.6, the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit
would occur more than twelve months after the date of issuance or last
extension, unless the Required Lenders have approved such expiry date; or

(ii) the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the
Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders have approved such
expiry date.

(c)        The L/C Issuer shall not be under
any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:

(i) any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator
shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain the L/C Issuer from issuing
such Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to the L/C Issuer or any
request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any
Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or
request that the L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit
generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon the L/C
Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital
requirement (for which the L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder)
not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer any
unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the date hereof
and which the L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it;

(ii) the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more policies of
the L/C Issuer;

(iv) such Letter of Credit is to be denominated in a currency other than
Dollars;

(v) such Letter of Credit contains any provisions for automatic reinstatement of
the stated amount after any drawing thereunder; or

(vi) a default of any Lender s obligations to fund under  4.1.4 exists
or any Lender is at such time a Delinquent Lender hereunder, unless the L/C
Issuer has entered into satisfactory arrangements with the Borrower or such
Lender to eliminate the L/C Issuer s risk with respect to such Lender.

(d)        The L/C Issuer shall not amend any
Letter of Credit if the L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue
such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof.

(e)        The L/C Issuer shall be under no
obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) the L/C Issuer would have no
obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under
the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not
accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.

(f)        The L/C Issuer shall act on behalf
of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the
documents associated therewith, and the L/C Issuer shall have all of the
benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Administrative Agent in
 14 with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by the L/C Issuer
in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it
and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the
term  Administrative Agent  as used in  14 included the L/C
Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided
herein with respect to the L/C Issuer.

4.1.2.   Procedures for the Issuance and Amendment of Letters of
Credit .   (a) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended,
as the case may be, upon the request of the Borrower delivered to the L/C Issuer
(with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of Letter of Credit
Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the
Borrower. Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the L/C Issuer
and the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. at least two Business
Days (or such later date and time as the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer
may agree in a particular instance in their sole discretion) prior to the
proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be. In the case of
a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit
Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer: (A)
the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a
Business Day); (B) the amount thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name
and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by
such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any
certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing
thereunder; and (G) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require. In the
case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such
Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to
the L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of
amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the
proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require.
Additionally, the Borrower shall furnish to the L/C Issuer and the
Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such
requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer
Documents, as the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may require.

(b)        Promptly after receipt of any
Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer will confirm with the
Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent
has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from the Borrower and,
if not, the L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy
thereof. Unless the L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Lender, the
Administrative Agent, the Borrower or any Guarantor, at least one Business Day
prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of
Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in   11 or 12
shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof,
the L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the
account of the Borrower or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may
be, in each case in accordance with the L/C Issuer s usual and customary
business practices. Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each
Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to,
purchase from the L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an
amount equal to the product of such Lender s Commitment Percentage
 times  the amount of such Letter of Credit.

(c)        Promptly after its delivery of any
Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with
respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the L/C Issuer will also deliver
to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such
Letter of Credit or amendment.

4.1.3.   Applicability of the ISP and Uniform
Customs .   Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the L/C Issuer
and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued (including any such agreement
applicable to an Existing Letter of Credit), (i) the rules of the
 International Standby Practices 1998  (ISP) published by the
Institute of International Banking Law   Practice (or such later version
thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance) shall apply to each standby
Letter of Credit, and (ii) the rules of the Uniform Customs and Practice for
Documentary Credits, as most recently published by the International Chamber of
Commerce at the time of issuance shall apply to each commercial Letter of
Credit.

4.1.4.   Reimbursement Obligations of
Lenders .   Each Lender severally agrees that it shall be
absolutely and unconditionally liable, without regard to the occurrence of any
Default or Event of Default or any other condition precedent or circumstance
whatsoever, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other
right which such Lender may have against the L/C Issuer, the Borrower or any
other Person for any reason whatsoever or (B) any other occurrence, event or
condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, to the extent of such
Lender s Commitment Percentage, to reimburse the L/C Issuer through the
Administrative Agent on demand for the amount of each draft paid by the L/C
Issuer under each Letter of Credit to the extent that such amount is not
reimbursed by the Borrower pursuant to  4.2 (such agreement for a Lender
being called herein the   Letter of Credit Participation   of
such Lender).

4.1.5.   Participations of Lenders .   Each such
payment made by a Lender shall be treated as the purchase by such Lender of a
participating interest in the Borrower s Reimbursement Obligation under
 4.2 in an amount equal to such payment. Each Lender shall share in
accordance with its participating interest in any interest which accrues
pursuant to  4.2 and in any applicable security for such Reimbursement
Obligation.

4.1.6.   Auto-Extension Letters of Credit .   If
the Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the L/C
Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of
Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an   Auto-Extension
Letter of Credit    provided  that (i) any such Auto-Extension
Letter of Credit must permit the L/C Issuer to prevent any such extension at
least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of
such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not
later than on the date (the   Non-Extension Notice Date  ) in
each such twelve-month period as agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit
is issued and (ii) any extension of a Auto-Extension Letter of Credit shall not
extend the expiry date of such Letter of Credit to a date later than the Letter
of Credit Expiration Date. Unless otherwise directed by the L/C Issuer, the
Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to the L/C Issuer for
any such extension. Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the
Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the L/C Issuer
to permit the extension of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date
not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date;  provided ,
 however , that the L/C Issuer shall not permit any such extension if (A)
the L/C Issuer has determined that it would not be permitted, or would have no
obligation, at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as
extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of  4.1.1(b)
or (c) or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone
or in writing) on or before the day that is five Business Days before the
Non-Extension Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required
Lenders have elected not to permit such extension or (2) from the Administrative
Agent, any Lender, the Borrower or any Guarantor that one or more of the
applicable conditions specified in  12 is not then satisfied, and in each
such case directing the L/C Issuer not to permit such extension.

4.2.   Reimbursement Obligation of the
Borrower .   In order to induce the L/C Issuer to issue, extend
and renew each Letter of Credit and the Lenders to participate therein, the
Borrower hereby agrees to reimburse or pay to the L/C Issuer, for the account of
the L/C Issuer or (as the case may be) the Lenders, with respect to each Letter
of Credit issued, extended or amended by the L/C Issuer hereunder,   

(a)        except as otherwise expressly
provided in  4.2(b) and (c), not later than 11:00 a.m. (Boston time) on
each date that any draft presented under such Letter of Credit is honored (the
  Honor Date  ) by the L/C Issuer, or the L/C Issuer otherwise
makes a payment with respect thereto, (i) the amount paid by the L/C Issuer
under or with respect to such Letter of Credit, and (ii) the amount of any
taxes, fees, charges or other costs and expenses whatsoever incurred by the L/C
Issuer or any Lender in connection with any payment made by the L/C Issuer or
any Lender under, or with respect to, such Letter of Credit,

(b)        upon the reduction (but not
termination) of the Total Commitment to an amount less than the Maximum Drawing
Amount, an amount equal to such difference, which amount shall be held by the
Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer as Cash
Collateral for all Reimbursement Obligations, and

(c)        upon the termination of the Total
Commitment, or the acceleration of the Reimbursement Obligations with respect to
all Letters of Credit in accordance with  13, an amount equal to the then
Maximum Drawing Amount on all Letters of Credit, which amount shall be held by
the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer as
Cash Collateral for all Reimbursement Obligations.

Each such payment shall be made to the L/C Issuer at the Administrative
Agent s Office in immediately available funds. Interest on any and all
amounts remaining unpaid by the Borrower under this  4.2 at any time from
the date such amounts become due and payable (whether as stated in this
 4.2, by acceleration or otherwise) until payment in full (whether before
or after judgment) shall be payable to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit
of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, on demand at the rate specified in  5.10
for overdue principal on the Revolving Credit Loans.   

4.3.   Letter of Credit Payments .   (a) If any
draft shall be presented or other demand for payment shall be made under any
Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall notify the Administrative Agent and the
Borrower of the date and amount of the draft presented or demand for payment and
of the date and time when it expects to pay such draft or honor such demand for
payment. If the Borrower fails to reimburse the L/C Issuer as provided in
 4.2 on or before the date that such draft is paid or other payment is made
by the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent may at any time thereafter notify
the Lenders of the amount of any such Unpaid Reimbursement Obligation and the
amount of each Lender s Commitment Percentage thereof. In such event, the
Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Base Rate Loan to be disbursed on
the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unpaid Reimbursement Obligation,
without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in  2.6 for the
principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the other conditions set
forth in   2.1, 2.6 and 12 (other than the delivery of a Loan
Request). Any notice given by the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent
pursuant to this  4.3 may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in
writing;  provided  that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall
not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice. Each Lender
shall upon any notice pursuant to  4.3 make funds available to the
Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer at the Administrative
Agent s Office in an amount equal to its Commitment Percentage of the
Unpaid Reimbursement Obligation not later than 1:00 p.m. on the Business Day
specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the
provisions of  4.3(b), each Lender that so makes funds available shall be
deemed to have made a Base Rate Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The
Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the L/C Issuer.

(b)        With respect to any Unpaid
Reimbursement Obligation that is not fully refinanced by Base Rate Loans because
the conditions set forth in  12 cannot be satisfied or for any other
reason, the Borrower shall be deemed to have incurred from the L/C Issuer an L/C
Borrowing in the amount of the Unpaid Reimbursement Obligation that is not so
refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together
with interest) and shall bear interest at the rate set forth in  5.10.1. In
such event, each Lender s payment to the Administrative Agent for the
account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to  4.3(a) shall be deemed payment in
respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C
Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under
this  4.

(c)        Until each Lender funds its
Commitment Percentage of the Loans or participations as set forth in this
 4.3 to reimburse the L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of
Credit, interest in respect of such Lender s Commitment Percentage of such
amount shall be solely for the account of the L/C Issuer.

(d)        If any Lender fails to make
available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer any
amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions
of this  4.3 by the time specified in  4.3, the applicable L/C Issuer
shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative
Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the
date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately
available to the L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the
Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the L/C Issuer in accordance with
banking industry rules on interbank compensation. A certificate of the L/C
Issuer submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect
to any amounts owing under this clause (vi) shall be conclusive absent manifest
error.

(e)        At any time after the L/C Issuer
has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender
such Lender s L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with
 4.3, if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of the L/C
Issuer any payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest
thereon (whether directly from the Borrower or otherwise, including proceeds of
Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative
Agent will distribute to such Lender its Commitment Percentage thereof
(appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period
of time during which such Lender s L/C Advance was outstanding) in the same
funds as those received by the Administrative Agent. If any payment received by
the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to  4.3
is required to be returned in connection with any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding or otherwise (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by
the L/C Issuer in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Administrative
Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer its Commitment Percentage thereof on
demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such
demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum
equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of
the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the
Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.

4.4.   Obligations Absolute .   The
Borrower s obligations under this  4 shall be absolute, irrevocable
and unconditional under any and all circumstances and irrespective of the
occurrence of any Default or Event of Default or any condition precedent
whatsoever or any setoff, counterclaim or defense to payment which the Borrower
may have or have had against the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any
Lender or any beneficiary of a Letter of Credit. The Borrower further agrees
with the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that the L/C
Issuer, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall not be responsible for,
and the Borrower s Reimbursement Obligations under  4.2 shall not be
affected by, among other things, the validity or genuineness of documents or of
any endorsements thereon, even if such documents should in fact prove to be in
any or all respects invalid, fraudulent or forged, or any dispute between or
among the Borrower, the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit or any financing
institution or other party to which any Letter of Credit may be transferred or
any claims or defenses whatsoever of the Borrower against the beneficiary of any
Letter of Credit or any such transferee. The L/C Issuer, the Administrative
Agent and the Lenders shall not be liable for any error, omission, interruption
or delay in transmission, dispatch or delivery of any message or advice, however
transmitted, in connection with any Letter of Credit. The Borrower agrees that
any action taken or omitted by the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent or any
Lender under or in connection with each Letter of Credit and the related drafts
and documents, if done in good faith and in the absence of gross negligence or
willful misconduct, shall be binding upon the Borrower and shall not result in
any liability on the part of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent or any
Lender to the Borrower. The Borrower shall promptly examine a copy of each
Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the
event of any claim of noncompliance with the Borrower s instructions or
other irregularity, the Borrower will immediately notify the L/C Issuer. The
Borrower shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against the
L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.

4.5.   Role of Issuer .   Each Lender and the
Borrower agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the L/C
Issuer shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any
sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of
Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such
document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such
document. None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their
respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the
L/C Issuer shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in
connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Lenders or the
Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence
of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution,
effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related
to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document. The Borrower hereby assumes all
risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to
its use of any Letter of Credit;  provided ,  however , that this
assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude the Borrower s
pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or
transferee at law or under any other agreement. None of the L/C Issuer, the
Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any
correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable or
responsible for any of the matters described in  4.4;  provided ,
 however , that anything in such clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, the
Borrower may have a claim against the L/C Issuer, and the L/C Issuer may be liable to the
Borrower, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to
consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by the Borrower which the Borrower proves
were caused by the L/C Issuer s willful misconduct or gross negligence or the L/C
Issuer s willful failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to
it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the
terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the
foregoing, the L/C Issuer may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order,
without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information
to the contrary, and the L/C Issuer shall not be responsible for the validity or
sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or
assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in
whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.   

4.6.   Letter of Credit Fees .   The Borrower
agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent in respect of each Letter of Credit
the following fees (each, a   Letter of Credit Fee  ) computed
for the period from and including the date of issuance, extension or amendment
of such Letter of Credit to the expiry date of such Letter of Credit equal to
the Applicable Margin per annum with respect to Letter of Credit Fees of the
maximum amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit, which shall be
for the accounts of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitment
Percentages. Such Letter of Credit Fees shall be payable quarterly in arrears on
the first Business Day of each calendar quarter (or portion thereof) for the
immediately preceding calendar quarter and on the Revolving Credit Loan Maturity
Date. In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay a fronting fee at the rate per
annum specified in the Fee Letter of the maximum amount available to be drawn
under such Letter of Credit, which shall be for the account of the L/C Issuer
and which shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the first Business Day of
each calendar quarter (or portion thereof) for the immediately preceding
calendar quarter and on the Revolving Credit Loan Maturity Date. In respect of
each Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall also pay to the L/C Issuer for the L/C
Issuer s own account, at such other time or times as such charges are
customarily made by the L/C Issuer, the L/C Issuer s customary issuance,
amendment, negotiation or document examination and other administrative fees as
in effect from time to time. Such customary fees and standard costs and charges
are due and payable on demand and are nonrefundable.   

4.7.   Cash Collateral .   Upon the request of
the Administrative Agent, (i) if the L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial
drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an
L/C Borrowing, or (ii) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, any L/C
Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, the Borrower shall, in each case,
immediately Cash Collateralize the then Maximum Drawing Amount and any Unpaid
Reimbursement Obligations.  Sections 3.2, 4.2(b), 4.2(c) and 4.3(e)  set
forth certain additional requirements to deliver Cash Collateral hereunder. For
purposes of this  4.7 and   3.2, 4.2(b), 4.2(c) and 4.3(e),
  Cash Collateralize   means to pledge and deposit with or
deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuer and the
Lenders, as collateral for the Maximum Drawing Amount and any Unpaid
Reimbursement Obligations, cash or deposit account balances pursuant to
documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and
the L/C Issuer (which documents are hereby consented to by the Lenders).
Derivatives of such term have corresponding meanings. The Borrower hereby grants
to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuer and the Lenders,
a security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein
and all proceeds of the foregoing. Cash Collateral shall be maintained in
blocked, non-interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America.   

4.8.   Conflict with Issuer Documents .   In the
event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer
Document, the terms hereof shall control.   

   5.   CERTAIN GENERAL PROVISIONS .   

5.1.   Fees    .   The Borrower agrees
to pay the fees in the amounts and on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Fee Letter.   

5.2.   Funds for Payments .    

5.2.1.   Payments to Administrative Agent .   All
payments of principal, interest, Reimbursement Obligations, fees and any other
amounts due hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents shall be made on
the due date thereof to the Administrative Agent in Dollars, for the respective
accounts of the Lenders and/or the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the
Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, at the Administrative Agent s Office
or at such other place that the Administrative Agent may from time to time
designate, in each case at or about 11:00 a.m. (Boston, Massachusetts, time or
other local time at the place of payment) and in immediately available funds.

5.2.2.   No Offset, etc.    All payments by the
Borrower hereunder and under any of the other Loan Documents shall be made
without recoupment, setoff or counterclaim and free and clear of and without
deduction for any taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions,
withholdings, compulsory loans, restrictions or conditions of any nature now or
hereafter imposed or levied by any jurisdiction or any political subdivision
thereof or taxing or other authority therein unless the Borrower is compelled by
law to make such deduction or withholding. If any such obligation is imposed
upon the Borrower with respect to any amount payable by it hereunder or under
any of the other Loan Documents, the Borrower will pay to the Administrative
Agent, for the account of the Lenders or (as the case may be) the Administrative
Agent, on the date on which such amount is due and payable hereunder or under
such other Loan Document, such additional amount in Dollars as shall be
necessary to enable the Lenders or the Administrative Agent to receive the same
net amount which the Lenders or the Administrative Agent would have received on
such due date had no such obligation been imposed upon the Borrower. The
Borrower will deliver promptly to the Administrative Agent certificates or other
valid vouchers for all taxes or other charges deducted from or paid with respect
to payments made by the Borrower hereunder or under such other Loan Document.
Each Lender claiming any additional amounts payable under this  5.2.2
agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with legal and regulatory
restrictions) to execute and deliver all such documents and instruments as the
Borrower shall reasonably request or to change the jurisdiction of its
applicable lending office if the execution of such documents or the making of
such a change would avoid the need for or substantially reduce the amount of
additional amounts which would thereafter accrue and would not, in the sole and
absolute determination of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such
Lender, which determination by such Lender shall be conclusive. The Borrower
shall not be liable for taxes paid by the Administrative Agent or any Lender
that are based upon the Administrative Agent s or such Lender s net
income or for any withholdings required to be made pursuant to applicable law
that are credited against taxes based on the Administrative Agent s or such
Lender s net income.

5.2.3.   Non-U.S. Lenders.    Each Lender and the
Administrative Agent that is not a U.S. Person as defined in Section 7701(a)(30)
of the Code for federal income tax purposes (a   Non-U.S.
Lender  ) hereby agrees that, if and to the extent it is legally able to
do so, it shall, prior to the date of the first payment by the Borrower
hereunder to be made to such Lender or the Administrative Agent or for such
Lender s or the Administrative Agent s account, deliver to the
Borrower and the Administrative Agent, as applicable, such certificates,
documents or other evidence, as and when required by the Code or Treasury
Regulations issued pursuant thereto, including (a) in the case of a Non-U.S.
Lender that is a  bank  for purposes of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the
Code, two (2) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or
Form W-8ECI and any other certificate or statement of exemption required by
Treasury Regulations, or any subsequent versions thereof or successors thereto,
properly completed and duly executed by such Lender or the Administrative Agent
establishing that with respect to payments of principal, interest or fees
hereunder it is (i) not subject to United States federal withholding tax under
the Code because such payment is effectively connected with the conduct by such
Lender or Administrative Agent of a trade or business in the United States or
(ii) totally exempt or partially exempt from United States federal withholding
tax under a provision of an applicable tax treaty and (b) in the case of a
Non-U.S. Lender that is not a  bank  for purposes of
Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, a certificate in form and substance
reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower and to the
effect that (i) such Non-U.S. Lender is not a  bank  for purposes
of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, is not subject to regulatory or other legal
requirements as a bank in any jurisdiction, and has not been treated as a bank
for purposes of any tax, securities law or other filing or submission made to
any governmental authority, any application made to a rating agency or
qualification for any exemption from any tax, securities law or other legal
requirements, (ii) is not a ten (10) percent shareholder for purposes of
Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code and (iii) is not a controlled foreign
corporation receiving interest from a related person for purposes of Section
881(c)(3)(C) of the Code, together with a properly completed Internal Revenue
Service Form W-8 or W-9, as applicable (or successor forms). Each Lender or the
Administrative Agent agrees that it shall, promptly upon a change of its lending
office or the selection of any additional lending office, to the extent the
forms previously delivered by it pursuant to this section are no longer
effective, and promptly upon the Borrower s or the Administrative
Agent s reasonable request after the occurrence of any other event
(including the passage of time) requiring the delivery of a Form W-8BEN, Form
W-8ECI, Form W-8 or W-9 in addition to or in replacement of the forms previously
delivered, deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, as applicable,
if and to the extent it is properly entitled to do so, a properly completed and
executed Form W-8BEN, Form W-8ECI, Form W-8 or W-9, as applicable (or any
successor forms thereto).

5.3.   Computations .   All computations of
interest for Base Rate Loans and Swing Line Loans when the Base Rate is
determined by Bank of America s  prime rate  shall be made on the
basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed.
All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a
360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as
applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Except
as otherwise provided in the definition of the term   Interest
Period   with respect to Eurodollar Rate Loans, whenever a payment
hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents becomes due on a day that is
not a Business Day, the due date for such payment shall be extended to the next
succeeding Business Day, and interest shall accrue during such extension. The
outstanding amount of the Revolving Credit Loans as reflected on the Revolving
Credit Note Records from time to time shall be considered correct and binding on
the Borrower unless within five (5) Business Days after receipt of any notice by
the Administrative Agent or any of the Lenders of such outstanding amount, the
Administrative Agent or such Lender shall notify the Borrower to the contrary.

5.4.   Inability to Determine Eurodollar
Rate .   In the event, prior to the commencement of any Interest
Period relating to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Administrative Agent shall
reasonably determine or be notified by the Required Lenders that (a) adequate
and reasonable methods do not exist for ascertaining the Eurodollar Rate that
would otherwise determine the rate of interest to be applicable to any
Eurodollar Rate Loan during any Interest Period or (b) the Eurodollar Rate
determined or to be determined for such Interest Period will not adequately and
fairly reflect the cost to the Lenders of making or maintaining their Eurodollar
Rate Loans during such period, the Administrative Agent shall forthwith give
notice of such determination (which shall be conclusive and binding on the
Borrower and the Lenders) to the Borrower and the Lenders. In such event (i) any
Loan Request or Conversion Request with respect to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall
be automatically withdrawn and shall be deemed a request for Base Rate Loans,
(ii) each Eurodollar Rate Loan will automatically, on the last day of the then
current Interest Period relating thereto, become a Base Rate Loan, and (iii) the
obligations of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended
until the Administrative Agent determines that the circumstances giving rise to
such suspension no longer exist, whereupon the Administrative Agent shall so
notify the Borrower and the Lenders.   

5.5.   Illegality .   Notwithstanding any other
provisions herein, if any present or future law, regulation, treaty or directive
or the interpretation or application thereof shall make it unlawful for any
Lender to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans, such Lender shall forthwith
give notice of such circumstances to the Borrower and the other Lenders and
thereupon (a) the commitment of such Lender to make Eurodollar Rate Loans or
convert Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall forthwith be suspended
and (b) such Lender s Revolving Credit Loans then outstanding as Eurodollar
Rate Loans, if any, shall be converted automatically to Base Rate Loans on the
last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Eurodollar Rate Loans or
within such earlier period as may be required by law. The Borrower hereby agrees
promptly to pay the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender, upon
demand by such Lender, any additional amounts necessary to compensate such
Lender for any costs incurred by such Lender in making any conversion in
accordance with this  5.5, including any interest or fees payable by such
Lender to lenders of funds obtained by it in order to make or maintain its
Eurodollar Rate Loans hereunder.   

5.6.   Additional Costs, etc .   If any present
or future applicable law, which expression, as used herein, includes statutes,
rules and regulations thereunder and interpretations thereof by any competent
court or by any governmental or other regulatory body or official charged with
the administration or the interpretation thereof and requests, directives,
instructions and notices at any time or from time to time hereafter made upon or
otherwise issued to any Lender or the Administrative Agent by any central bank
or other fiscal, monetary or other authority (whether or not having the force of
law), shall:   

(a)        subject any Lender or the
Administrative Agent to any tax, levy, impost, duty, charge, fee, deduction or
withholding of any nature with respect to this Credit Agreement, the other Loan
Documents, any Letters of Credit, such Lender s Commitment or the Revolving
Credit Loans (other than taxes based upon or measured by the income or profits
of such Lender or the Administrative Agent or withholdings in connection with
such taxes), or

(b)        materially change the basis of
taxation (except for changes in taxes on income or profits) of payments to any
Lender of the principal of or the interest on any Revolving Credit Loans, Swing
Line Loans or any other amounts payable to any Lender or the Administrative
Agent under this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, or

(c)        impose or increase or render
applicable (other than to the extent specifically provided for elsewhere in this
Credit Agreement) any special deposit, reserve (other than reserves included
within the definition of Eurocurrency Reserve Rate), assessment, liquidity,
capital adequacy or other similar requirements (whether or not having the force
of law) against assets held by, or deposits in or for the account of, or loans
by, or letters of credit issued by, or commitments of an office of any Lender,
or

(d)        impose on any Lender or the
Administrative Agent any other conditions or requirements with respect to this
Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents, any Letters of Credit, the Swing
Line Loans, the Revolving Credit Loans, such Lender s Commitment, or any
class of loans, letters of credit or commitments of which any of the Revolving
Credit Loans or such Lender s Commitment forms a part, and the result of
any of the foregoing is

(i)        to increase the cost to any Lender
of making, funding, issuing, renewing, extending or maintaining any of the
Revolving Credit Loans, Swing Line Loans or such Lender s Commitment or any
Letter of Credit, or

(ii)        to reduce the amount of
principal, interest, Reimbursement Obligation or other amount payable to such
Lender or the Administrative Agent hereunder on account of such Lender s
Commitment, any Letter of Credit, any of the Swing Line Loans or any of the
Revolving Credit Loans, or

(iii)        to require such Lender or the
Administrative Agent to make any payment or to forego any interest or
Reimbursement Obligation or other sum payable hereunder, the amount of which
payment or foregone interest or Reimbursement Obligation or other sum is
calculated by reference to the gross amount of any sum receivable or deemed
received by such Lender or the Administrative Agent from the Borrower hereunder,

then, and in each such case, the Borrower will, upon demand made by such Lender
or (as the case may be) the Administrative Agent at any time and from time to
time and as often as the occasion therefor may arise, pay to such Lender or the
Administrative Agent such additional amounts as will be sufficient to compensate
such Lender or the Administrative Agent for such additional cost, reduction,
payment or foregone interest or Reimbursement Obligation or other sum.

5.7.   Capital Adequacy .   If after the date
hereof any Lender or the Administrative Agent determines that (a) the adoption
of or change in any law, governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline or
directive (whether or not having the force of law) regarding capital
requirements for Lenders or Lender holding companies or any change in the
interpretation or application thereof by a Governmental Authority with
appropriate jurisdiction, or (b) compliance by such Lender or the Administrative
Agent or any corporation controlling such Lender or the Administrative Agent
with any law, governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline or directive
(whether or not having the force of law) of any such entity regarding capital
adequacy, has the effect of reducing the return on such Lender s or the
Administrative Agent s commitment with respect to any Revolving Credit
Loans to a level below that which such Lender or the Administrative Agent could
have achieved but for such adoption, change or compliance (taking into
consideration such Lender s or the Administrative Agent s then
existing policies with respect to capital adequacy and assuming full utilization
of such entity s capital) by any amount deemed by such Lender or (as the
case may be) the Administrative Agent to be material, then such Lender or the
Administrative Agent may notify the Borrower of such fact. To the extent that
the amount of such reduction in the return on capital is not reflected in the
Base Rate, the Borrower and such Lender shall thereafter attempt to negotiate in
good faith, within thirty (30) days of the day on which the Borrower receives
such notice, an adjustment payable hereunder that will adequately compensate
such Lender in light of these circumstances. If the Borrower and such Lender are
unable to agree to such adjustment within thirty (30) days of the date on which
the Borrower receives such notice, then commencing on the date of such notice
(but not earlier than the effective date of any such increased capital
requirement), the fees payable hereunder shall increase by an amount that will,
in such Lender s reasonable determination, provide adequate compensation.
Each Lender shall allocate such cost increases among its customers in good faith
and on an equitable basis.   

5.8.   Certificate .   A certificate setting
forth any additional amounts payable pursuant to  5.6 or 5.7 and a brief
explanation of such amounts which are due, submitted by any Lender or the
Administrative Agent to the Borrower, shall be conclusive, absent manifest
error, that such amounts are due and owing.   

5.9.   Indemnity .   The Borrower agrees to
indemnify each Lender and to hold each Lender harmless from and against any
loss, cost or expense (including loss of anticipated profits) that such Lender
may sustain or incur as a consequence of (a) default by the Borrower in payment
of the principal amount of or any interest on any Eurodollar Rate Loans as and
when due and payable, including any such loss or expense arising from interest
or fees payable by such Lender to banks of funds obtained by it in order to
maintain its Eurodollar Rate Loans, (b) default by the Borrower in making a
borrowing or conversion after the Borrower has given (or is deemed to have
given) a Loan Request or a Conversion Request relating thereto in accordance
with  2.6 or  2.7 or (c) the making of any payment of a Eurodollar
Rate Loan or the making of any conversion of any such Loan to a Base Rate Loan
on a day that is not the last day of the applicable Interest Period with respect
thereto, including interest or fees payable by such Lender to lenders of funds
obtained by it in order to maintain any such Loans.   

5.10.   Interest After Default .    

5.10.1.   Overdue
Amounts .   Overdue principal and (to the extent permitted by applicable
law) interest on the Revolving Credit Loans, the Swing Line Loans and all other overdue
amounts payable hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents shall bear interest
from the due date compounded monthly and payable on demand at a rate per annum equal to
two percent (2%) above the rate of interest then applicable thereto (or, if no rate of
interest is then applicable thereto, the Base Rate) until such amount shall be paid in
full (after as well as before judgment). An amount shall be considered overdue hereunder
if not paid on the date fixed for payment herein or any accelerated maturity thereof,
regardless of any grace periods which may be permitted under  13.1 (a) or (b)
hereof.

5.10.2.   Amounts Not Overdue .   During the
continuance of an Event of Default the principal of the Revolving Credit Loans
not overdue shall, until such Event of Default has been cured or remedied or
such Event of Default has been waived by the Required Lenders pursuant to
 16.12, bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) two
percent (2%) above the rate of interest otherwise applicable to such Revolving
Credit Loans pursuant to  2.5 or (b) the rate of interest applicable to
overdue principal pursuant to  5.10.1.

6.   COLLATERAL SECURITY AND GUARANTIES .   

6.1.   Security of Borrower .   The Obligations
shall be secured by a perfected first priority security interest (subject only
to Permitted Liens that are entitled to priority under applicable law) in all of
the assets of the Borrower and, subject to  8.17, each Guarantor, whether
now owned or hereafter acquired, including, without limitation, all leases,
lease receivables and other accounts receivable of the Borrower and, subject to
 8.17, each Guarantor, and a pledge of 100% of the Capital Stock of each of
the Borrower s Subsidiaries (or, in the case of a non-Guarantor Subsidiary
that is a  controlled foreign corporation  under Section 957 of the
Code, 66% of the Capital Stock of each such first-tier foreign non-Guarantor
Subsidiary), in each case pursuant to the terms of, and as provided in, the
Security Documents to which the Borrower or such Guarantor is a party.

6.2.   Guaranties of Subsidiaries .   The
Obligations shall also be guaranteed pursuant to the terms of the Guaranty.

6.3.   Release of Collateral .    

The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that the Administrative Agent shall
release its Lien on Collateral consisting of Containers and the proceeds thereof
upon a request for such release by the Borrower in connection with a disposition
of such Collateral permitted by, and in accordance with,  9.5.2.

7.   REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES .   

The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent
as follows:   

7.1.   Corporate Authority .    

7.1.1.   Incorporation; Good Standing .   Each of
the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (a) is a corporation (or similar business
entity) duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of
its jurisdiction of incorporation or formation, (b) has all requisite corporate
(or the equivalent company) power to own its property and conduct its business
as now conducted and as presently contemplated, and (c) is in good standing as a
foreign corporation (or similar business entity) and is duly authorized to do
business in each jurisdiction where such qualification is necessary except where
a failure to be so qualified would not have a Material Adverse Effect.

7.1.2.   Authorization .   The execution,
delivery and performance of this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents
to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is or is to become a party and
the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby (a) are within the corporate
(or the equivalent company) authority of such Person, (b) have been duly
authorized by all necessary corporate (or the equivalent company) proceedings,
(c) do not and will not conflict with or result in any breach or contravention
of any provision of law, statute, rule or regulation to which the Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries is subject or any judgment, order, writ, injunction,
license or permit applicable to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and (d)
do not conflict with any provision of the Governing Documents of, or any
agreement or other instrument binding upon, the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries.

7.1.3.   Enforceability .   The execution and
delivery of this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is or is to become a party will result in
valid and legally binding obligations of such Person enforceable against it in
accordance with the respective terms and provisions hereof and thereof, except
as enforceability is limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization,
moratorium or other laws relating to or affecting generally the enforcement of
creditors  rights and except to the extent that availability of the remedy
of specific performance or injunctive relief is subject to the discretion of the
court before which any proceeding therefor may be brought.

7.2.   Governmental or Third Party
Approvals .   The execution, delivery and performance by the
Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries of this Credit Agreement and the other Loan
Documents to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is or is to become a
party and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby do not require (x)
the approval or consent of, or filing with, any governmental agency or authority
other than those already obtained or (y) the approval or consent of, or filing
with, any party with whom the Borrower has entered into material agreements
and/or instruments by which the Borrower or any of its properties may be bound,
other than those already obtained.   

7.3.   Title to Properties; Leases .   Except as
indicated on  Schedule   7.3  hereto, the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries own all of the assets reflected in the consolidated balance sheet
of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the Balance Sheet Date or acquired
since that date (except property and assets sold or otherwise disposed of in the
ordinary course of business since that date), subject to no Liens or other
rights of others, except Permitted Liens.   

7.4.   Financial Statements and Projections .    

7.4.1.   Fiscal Year .  The Borrower and each of its
Subsidiaries has a fiscal (or financial) year which is the twelve months ending
on December 31 st  of each calendar year.

There has been furnished to each of the Lenders a consolidated balance sheet of
the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the Balance Sheet Date, and a
consolidated statement of income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the
fiscal year then ended, certified by KPMG Peat Marwick, and management-prepared
consolidated balance sheets and statements of income of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries as at the end of each fiscal quarter after the Balance Sheet Date
and prior to the Closing Date. Such balance sheets and statements of income have
been prepared in accordance with GAAP and fairly present the financial condition
of the Borrower as at the close of business on the respective dates thereof and
the results of operations for the fiscal periods then ended. There are no
contingent liabilities of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as of such
date involving material amounts, known to the officers of the Borrower, which
were not disclosed in such balance sheets and the notes related thereto.

7.4.3.   Projections .   The projections of the
annual operating budgets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated
basis, balance sheets and cash flow statements for the 2005 to 2009 fiscal
years ,  copies of which have been delivered to each Lender, disclose all
major assumptions made with respect to general economic, financial and market
conditions used in formulating such projections. To the knowledge of the
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, no facts exist that (individually or in the
aggregate) would result in any material change in any of such projections. The
projections are based upon reasonable estimates and assumptions, have been
prepared on the basis of the assumptions stated therein and reflect the
reasonable estimates of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries of the results of
operations and other information projected therein.

7.5.   No Material Adverse Changes, etc .   Since
the Balance Sheet Date there has been no event or occurrence which has had or
would result in a Material Adverse Effect. Since the Balance Sheet Date, the
Borrower has not made any Restricted Payment other than Restricted Payments
permitted under  9.4.   

7.6.   Franchises, Patents, Copyrights,
etc .   The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries possesses all
franchises, patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade names, licenses and permits,
and rights in respect of the foregoing, adequate for the conduct of its business
substantially as now conducted without known conflict with any rights of others.

7.7.   Litigation .   Except as set forth in
 Schedule   7.7  hereto, there are no actions, suits, proceedings
or investigations of any kind pending or threatened against the Borrower or any
of its Subsidiaries before any Governmental Authority, that (a) if adversely
determined, might, either in any case or in the aggregate (i) have a Material
Adverse Effect or (ii) materially impair the right of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries, considered as a whole, to carry on business substantially as now
conducted by them, or result in any substantial liability not adequately covered
by insurance, or for which adequate reserves are not maintained on the
consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, or (b) which
question the validity of this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan
Documents, or any action taken or to be taken pursuant hereto or thereto.

7.8.   No Materially Adverse Contracts,
etc .   Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is
subject to any Governing Document or other legal restriction, or any judgment,
decree, order, law, statute, rule or regulation that has or is expected in the
future to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Borrower nor any of its
Subsidiaries is a party to any contract or agreement that has or is expected, in
the judgment of the Borrower s officers, to have any Material Adverse
Effect.   

7.9.   Compliance with Other Instruments, Laws,
etc .   Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is in
violation of any provision of its Governing Documents, or any agreement or
instrument to which it may be subject or by which it or any of its properties
may be bound or any decree, order, judgment, statute, license, rule or
regulation, in any of the foregoing cases in a manner that could result in the
imposition of substantial penalties or have a Material Adverse Effect.

7.10.   Tax Status .   The Borrower and its
Subsidiaries (a) have made or filed all federal, state and foreign income and
all other tax returns, reports and declarations required by any jurisdiction to
which any of them is subject, (b) have paid all taxes and other governmental
assessments and charges shown or determined to be due on such returns, reports
and declarations, except those being contested in good faith and by appropriate
proceedings and (c) have set aside on their books provisions reasonably adequate
for the payment of all taxes for periods subsequent to the periods to which such
returns, reports or declarations apply. There are no unpaid taxes in any
material amount claimed to be due by the taxing authority of any jurisdiction,
and none of the officers of the Borrower know of any basis for any such claim.

7.11.   No Event of Default .   No Default or
Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.   

7.12.   Holding Company and Investment Company
Acts .   Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is a
  holding   company  , or a   subsidiary 
 company   of a   holding 
 company  , or an   affiliate   of a   holding 
 company  , as such terms are defined in the Public Utility Holding Company Act
of 1935; nor is it an   investment   company  , or an
  affiliated   company   or a   principal 
 underwriter   of an   investment   company  , as
such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940.   

7.13.   Absence of Financing Statements,
etc .   Except with respect to Permitted Liens, there is no
financing statement, security agreement, chattel mortgage, real estate mortgage
or other document filed or recorded with any filing records, registry or other
public office, that purports to cover, affect or give notice of any present or
possible future Lien on any assets or property of the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries or any rights relating thereto.   

7.14.   Perfection of Security Interest .   All
filings, assignments, pledges and deposits of documents or instruments have been
made and all other actions have been taken that are necessary or advisable,
under applicable law, to establish and perfect the Administrative Agent s
security interest in the Collateral. The Collateral and the Administrative
Agent s rights with respect to the Collateral are not subject to any
setoff, claims, withholdings or other defenses. The Borrower is the owner of the
Collateral free from any Lien, except for Permitted Liens.   

7.15.   Certain Transactions .   Except for
arm s length transactions pursuant to which the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries makes payments in the ordinary course of business upon terms no
less favorable than the Borrower or such Subsidiary could obtain from third
parties and except pursuant to the terms of the documents described on
 Schedule   7.15  hereto, no Affiliate of the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries is presently a party to any transaction with the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries (other than for services as employees, officers and directors), including any
contract, agreement or other arrangement providing for the furnishing of services to or
by, providing for rental of real or personal property to or from, or otherwise requiring
payments to or from any such Affiliate or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, any
corporation, partnership, trust or other entity in which any such Affiliate has a
substantial interest or is an officer, director, trustee or partner.   

7.16.   Employee Benefit Plans .    

7.16.1.   In General .   Each Employee Benefit
Plan and each Guaranteed Pension Plan has been maintained and operated in
compliance in all material respects with the provisions of ERISA and all
Applicable Pension Legislation and, to the extent applicable, the Code,
including but not limited to the provisions thereunder respecting prohibited
transactions and the bonding of fiduciaries and other persons handling plan
funds as required by  412 of ERISA. The Borrower has heretofore delivered
to the Administrative Agent the most recently completed annual report, Form
5500, with all required attachments, and actuarial statement required to be
submitted under  103(d) of ERISA, with respect to each Guaranteed Pension
Plan.

7.16.2.   Terminability of Welfare Plans .   No
Employee Benefit Plan, which is an employee welfare benefit plan within the
meaning of  3(1) or  3(2)(B) of ERISA, provides benefit coverage
subsequent to termination of employment, except as required by Title I, Part 6
of ERISA or the applicable state insurance laws. The Borrower, or an ERISA
Affiliate (other than Interpool), as appropriate, may terminate each such Plan
at any time (or at any time subsequent to the expiration of any applicable
bargaining agreement) in the discretion of the Borrower or such ERISA Affiliate
(other than Interpool) without material liability to any Person other than for
claims arising prior to termination.

7.16.3.   Guaranteed Pension Plans .   Each
contribution required to be made to a Guaranteed Pension Plan, whether required
to be made to avoid the incurrence of an accumulated funding deficiency, the
notice or lien provisions of  302(f) of ERISA, or otherwise, has been
timely made. No waiver of an accumulated funding deficiency or extension of
amortization periods has been received with respect to any Guaranteed Pension
Plan, and neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate is obligated to or has
posted security in connection with an amendment to a Guaranteed Pension Plan
pursuant to  307 of ERISA or  401(a)(29) of the Code. No liability to
the PBGC (other than required insurance premiums, all of which have been paid)
has been incurred by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate with respect to any
Guaranteed Pension Plan and there has not been any ERISA Reportable Event (other
than an ERISA Reportable Event as to which the requirement of 30 days notice has
been waived), or any other event or condition which presents a material risk of
termination of any Guaranteed Pension Plan by the PBGC. Based on the latest
valuation of each Guaranteed Pension Plan (which in each case occurred within
twelve months of the date of this representation), and on the actuarial methods
and assumptions employed for that valuation, the aggregate benefit liabilities
of all such Guaranteed Pension Plans within the meaning of  4001 of ERISA
did not exceed the aggregate value of the assets of all such Guaranteed Pension
Plans, disregarding for this purpose the benefit liabilities and assets of any
Guaranteed Pension Plan with assets in excess of benefit liabilities.

7.16.4.   Multiemployer Plans .   Neither the
Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred any material liability (including
secondary liability) to any Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or
partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan under  4201 of ERISA or as
a result of a sale of assets described in  4204 of ERISA. Neither the
Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has been notified that any Multiemployer Plan
is in reorganization or insolvent under and within the meaning of  4241 or
 4245 of ERISA or is at risk of entering reorganization or becoming
insolvent, or that any Multiemployer Plan intends to terminate or has been
terminated under  4041A of ERISA.

7.17.   Use of Proceeds .    

7.17.1.   General  .  The proceeds of the
Revolving Credit Loans shall be used (a) to refinance the Indebtedness under the
Existing Credit Agreement, (b) to make the Closing Interpool Repayment, (c) to
prepay the Interpool Subordinated Debt and the Master Lease Agreements in
accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement after the Closing Date, (d)
for working capital and general corporate purposes and (e) to fund Capital
Expenditures permitted hereunder. The Borrower will obtain Letters of Credit
solely for working capital and general corporate purposes.

7.17.2.   Regulations U and X  .  No portion of
any Revolving Credit Loan is to be used, and no portion of any Letter of Credit
is to be obtained, for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any
  margin   security   or   margin 
 stock   as such terms are used in Regulations U and X of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 12 C.F.R. Parts 221 and 224.

7.18.   Environmental Compliance .   The Borrower
has taken all reasonable and necessary steps to investigate the past and present
condition and usage of the Real Estate and the operations conducted thereon and,
based upon such diligent investigation, has determined that:   

(a)        none of the Borrower, its
Subsidiaries or any operator of the Real Estate or any operations thereon is in
violation, or alleged violation, of any judgment, decree, order, law, license,
rule or regulation pertaining to environmental matters, including without
limitation, those arising under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
(  RCRA  ), the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 as amended (  CERCLA  ),
the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986
(  SARA  ), the Federal Clean Water Act, the Federal Clean Air
Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or any state, local or foreign law,
statute, regulation, ordinance, order or decree relating to health, safety or
the environment (hereinafter   Environmental Laws  ), which
violation could have a material adverse effect on the environment or a Material
Adverse Effect;

(b)        neither the Borrower nor any of
its Subsidiaries has received notice from any third party including, without
limitation, any Governmental Authority, (i) that any one of them has been
identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(  EPA  ) as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA with
respect to a site listed on the National Priorities List, 40 C.F.R. Part 300
Appendix B; (ii) that any hazardous waste, as defined by 42 U.S.C.
 6903(5), any hazardous substances as defined by 42 U.S.C.  9601(14),
any pollutant or contaminant as defined by 42 U.S.C.  9601(33) and any
toxic substances, oil or hazardous materials or other chemicals or substances
regulated by any Environmental Laws (  Hazardous Substances  )
which any one of them has generated, transported or disposed of has been found
at any site at which a Governmental Authority has conducted or has ordered that
any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries conduct a remedial investigation,
removal or other response action pursuant to any Environmental Law; or (iii)
that it is or shall be a named party to any claim, action, cause of action,
complaint, or legal or administrative proceeding (in each case, contingent or
otherwise) arising out of any third party s incurrence of costs, expenses,
losses or damages of any kind whatsoever in connection with the release of
Hazardous Substances;

(c)        except as set forth on
 Schedule   7.18  attached hereto, to the best of the
Borrower s knowledge: (i) no portion of the Real Estate has been used for
the handling, processing, storage or disposal of Hazardous Substances except in
accordance with applicable Environmental Laws; and no underground tank or other
underground storage receptacle for Hazardous Substances is located on any
portion of the Real Estate; (ii) in the course of any activities conducted by
the Borrower, its Subsidiaries or operators of its properties, no Hazardous
Substances have been generated or are being used on the Real Estate except in
accordance with applicable Environmental Laws; (iii) there have been no releases
(i.e. any past or present releasing, spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, disposing or dumping) or
threatened releases of Hazardous Substances on, upon, into or from the
properties of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, which releases could have a
material adverse effect on the value of any of the Real Estate or adjacent
properties or the environment; (iv) to the best of the Borrower s
knowledge, there have been no releases on, upon, from or into any real property
in the vicinity of any of the Real Estate which, through soil or groundwater
contamination, may have come to be located on, and which could have a material
adverse effect on the value of, the Real Estate; and (v) in addition, any
Hazardous Substances that have been generated on any of the Real Estate have
been transported offsite only by carriers having an identification number issued
by the EPA (or the equivalent thereof in any foreign jurisdiction), treated or
disposed of only by treatment or disposal facilities maintaining valid permits
as required under applicable Environmental Laws, which transporters and
facilities have been and are, to the best of the Borrower s knowledge,
operating in compliance with such permits and applicable Environmental Laws; and

(d)        none of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries, nor any of the Real Estate is subject to any applicable
Environmental Law requiring the performance of Hazardous Substances site
assessments, or the removal or remediation of Hazardous Substances, or the
giving of notice to any Governmental Authority or the recording or delivery to
other Persons of an environmental disclosure document or statement by virtue of
the transactions set forth herein and contemplated hereby, or as a condition to
the effectiveness of any transactions contemplated hereby.

7.19.   Subsidiaries, etc .    Schedule 
 7.19(a)  hereto sets forth the only Subsidiaries of the Borrower,
including the jurisdiction of incorporation/formation and principal place of
business or registered office, as the case may be, of each such Person. Except
as set forth on  Schedule   7.19(b)  hereto, neither the Borrower
nor any Subsidiary of the Borrower is engaged in any joint venture or
partnership with any other Person.   

7.20.   Bank
Accounts .    Schedule   7.20  sets forth the
account numbers and location of all bank accounts of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries. The aggregate amount of collected funds held in each such deposit
account (other than deposit accounts maintained at the Administrative
Agent s Office) shall not at the close of any Business Day exceed the
amount specified for such account on  Schedule   7.20  and the
aggregate amount of collected funds held in all such deposit accounts (other
than deposit accounts maintained at the Administrative Agent s Office)
shall not at the close of any Business Day exceed two million Dollars
($2,000,000).   

7.21.   Disclosure .   None of this Credit
Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents contains any untrue statement of a
material fact or omits to state a material fact (known to the Borrower or any of
its Subsidiaries in the case of any document or information not furnished by it
or any of its Subsidiaries) necessary in order to make the statements herein or
therein not misleading. There is no fact known to the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries which has a Material Adverse Effect, or which is reasonably likely
in the future to have a Material Adverse Effect, exclusive of effects resulting
from changes in general economic conditions, legal standards or regulatory
conditions.   

7.22.   Status   of   Obligations  
  as     Senior     Debt  .  All
Obligations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries to the Lenders and the
Administrative Agent under or in respect of this Credit Agreement and the other
Loan Documents constitute  Senior Debt  (or the analogous term used
therein) under the terms of the Subordination Documents or of any other
instrument evidencing or pursuant to which there is issued indebtedness which
purports to be Subordinated Debt of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.

7.23.   Solvency .   Both before and after giving
effect to each incurrence of Indebtedness hereunder, and the payment of all
fees, costs and expenses payable by the Borrower hereunder, the Borrower is
Solvent.   

7.24.   Insurance .   The Borrower and each of
its Subsidiaries maintain with financially sound and reputable insurers
insurance with respect to its properties and businesses against such casualties
and contingencies as are set forth on  Schedule   7.24  hereto, and
such insurance is in accordance with sound business practices in accordance with
industry standards and the terms of the Security Documents.   

7.25.   Foreign Assets Control Regulations,
Etc.    None of the requesting or borrowing of the Revolving
Credit Loans, the Swing Line Loans, the requesting or issuance, extension or
renewal of any Letters of Credit or the use of the proceeds of any thereof will
violate the Trading With the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C.  1 et seq., as amended)
(the   Trading   With   the   Enemy   Act  )
or any of the foreign assets control regulations of the United States Treasury
Department (31 CFR, Subtitle B, Chapter V, as amended) (the   Foreign 
 Assets   Control 
 Regulations  ) or any enabling legislation or executive order relating thereto
(which for the avoidance of doubt shall include, but shall not be limited to (a) Executive
Order 13224 of September 21, 2001 Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions With
Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism (66 Fed. Reg. 49079 (2001))
(the   Executive   Order  ) and (b) the Uniting and Strengthening
America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of
2001 (Public Law 107-56)). Furthermore, neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries
or other Affiliates that are controlled by the Borrower (a) is or will become a
 blocked person  as described in the Executive Order, the Trading With the Enemy
Act or the Foreign Assets Control Regulations or (b) engages or will engage in any
dealings or transactions, or be otherwise associated, with any such  blocked
person .   

   8.   AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS .   

The Borrower covenants and agrees that, so long as any Revolving Credit Loan,
Unpaid Reimbursement Obligation, Letter of Credit, Swing Line Loan or Revolving
Credit Note is outstanding or any Lender has any obligation to make any
Revolving Credit Loans or the L/C Issuer has any obligation to issue, extend or
renew any Letters of Credit or the Swing Line Lender has any obligation to make
Swing Line Loans:   

8.1.   Punctual Payment .   The Borrower will
duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid the principal and interest on the
Revolving Credit Loans, all Reimbursement Obligations, all Swing Line Loans, the
fees and all other amounts provided for in this Credit Agreement and the other
Loan Documents to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, all
in accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement and such other Loan
Documents.   

8.2.   Maintenance of Office .   The Borrower
will maintain its chief executive office in San Francisco, California, or at
such other place in the United States of America as the Borrower shall designate
upon thirty days  prior written notice to the Administrative Agent, where
notices, presentations and demands to or upon the Borrower in respect of the
Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party may be given or made. In the
event the Borrower moves its chief executive office to another location within
the State of California, thirty days  prior telephonic notice to the
Administrative Agent shall be sufficient.   

8.3.   Records and Accounts .    

(a)        The Borrower will (i) keep, and
cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, true and accurate records and books of
account in which full, true and correct entries will be made in accordance with
GAAP, (ii) maintain adequate accounts and reserves for all taxes (including
income taxes), depreciation, depletion, obsolescence and amortization of its
properties and the properties of its Subsidiaries, contingencies, and other
reserves, and (iii) at all times engage KPMG Peat Marwick or other independent
certified public accountants satisfactory to the Administrative Agent as the
independent certified public accountants of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries
and will not permit more than thirty (30) days to elapse between the cessation
of such firm s (or any successor firm s) engagement as the independent
certified public accountants of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and the
appointment in such capacity of a successor firm as shall be reasonably
satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.   

(b)        From time to time upon the request
of the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative
Agent a list of the names, addresses, face value, and dates of invoices for each
debtor obligated on such an account receivable. With respect to all leases of
the Company that constitute Collateral hereunder or pursuant to which the
Borrower, as lessor, leases Containers comprising Collateral to third parties,
(i) each such lease shall be executed in three original counterparts, one and
only one of which shall be designated the  Lessor s Original ,
(ii) only the Lessor s Original counterpart of each such lease shall be
deemed to constitute chattel paper under the UCC and (iii) each such lease shall
contain a provision setting forth the terms contained in clauses (i) and (ii) of
this sentence. The Borrower shall conspicuously stamp the Lessor s Original
counterpart of each such lease and any other counterpart thereof that comes into
the Borrower s possession with a legend, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Administrative Agent, clearly indicating that such lease and the
Containers leased thereunder are subject to the security interest granted
pursuant hereto. The Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent upon
request copies of leases to which any portion of the Collateral is subject.

8.4.   Financial Statements, Certificates and
Information .   The Borrower will deliver to each of the
Lenders:   

(a)        as soon as practicable, but in any
event not later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the end of each fiscal
year of the Borrower, the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries as at the end of such year, and the related consolidated statement
of income and consolidated statement of cash flow for such year, each setting
forth in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year and all such
consolidatedstatements to be in reasonable detail, prepared in accordance with
GAAP, and certified, without qualification and without an expression of
uncertainty as to the ability of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to
continue as going concerns, by KPMG Peat Marwick or by other independent
certified public accountants satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, together
with a written statement from such accountants to the effect that they have read
  9 and 10 of this Credit Agreement and all the definitions associated
therewith, and that, in making the examination necessary to said certification,
they have obtained no knowledge of any Default or Event of Default, or, if such
accountants shall have obtained knowledge of any then existing Default or Event
of Default they shall disclose in such statement any such Default or Event of
Default;  provided  that such accountants shall not be liable to the
Lenders for failure to obtain knowledge of any Default or Event of Default;

(b)        as soon as practicable, but in any
event not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each of the fiscal
quarters of the Borrower, copies of the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of
the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter, and the related
consolidated statement of income and consolidated statement of cash flow for the
portion of the Borrower s fiscal year then elapsed, all in reasonable
detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, together with a certification by
the principal financial or accounting officer of the Borrower that the
information contained in such financial statements fairly presents the financial
position of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date thereof (subject to
year-end adjustments);

(c)        as soon as practicable, but in any
event within forty-five (45) days after the end of each month in each fiscal
year of the Borrower, an unaudited monthly consolidated balance sheet and
consolidated statement of income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such
month prepared in accordance with GAAP, together with a certification by the
principal financial or accounting officer of the Borrower that the information
contained in such financial statements fairly presents the financial condition
of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date thereof (subject to year-end
adjustments);

(d)        simultaneously with the delivery
of the financial statements referred to in subsections (a) and (b) above, a
statement certified by the principal financial or accounting officer of the
Borrower in substantially the form of  Exhibit   D  hereto (a
  Compliance   Certificate  ) and setting forth in
reasonable detail computations evidencing compliance with the covenants
contained in  10 and (if applicable) reconciliations to reflect changes in
GAAP since the Balance Sheet Date;

(e)        contemporaneously with the filing
or mailing thereof, copies of all material of a financial nature filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission or sent to the stockholders of the Borrower;

(f)        within forty-five days (45) days
of the end of each calendar month and, in any case, simultaneously with the
delivery of a Loan Request in accordance with  2.9, and at the times
specified in  9.5.2 and at such other times as the Administrative Agent may
reasonably request, a Borrowing Base Report setting forth the Borrowing Base as
at the end of such calendar month, the date of such Loan Request or other date
so requested by the Administrative Agent, as the case may be;

(g)        simultaneously with the delivery
of the financial statements referred to in subsection (b) above and at such
other times as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request, a summary
Accounts Receivable (including Eligible Container Receivables) aging report as
of the end of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower, together with a list of
account debtors and the associated Accounts Receivable with the largest overdue
face amounts as of the end of each fiscal quarter, and otherwise in form and
detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, together with a list of the
twenty (20) account debtors with whom the Borrower transacted the largest volume
of business during such fiscal quarter;

(h)        as soon as practicable, but in any
event not later than 45 days after request by the Administrative Agent made
after determining in its discretion that an appraisal or reappraisal of the
value of Eligible Containers of the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower
is necessary, an appraisal or reappraisal, as the case may be, of the value of
such Eligible Containers, which appraisal or reappraisal shall be conducted at
the expense of the Borrower or such Subsidiary by an appraiser selected by the
Administrative Agent in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative
Agent;

(i)        simultaneously with the delivery
of the financial statements referred to in subsection (a) above and from time to
time upon request of the Administrative Agent, a copy of the Borrower s
business plan, budget and financial forecast prepared on a monthly or quarterly
basis for the then current fiscal year, all in such form and detail as the
Lenders may reasonably request, updating those projections delivered to the
Lenders and referred to in  7.4.3 or, if applicable, updating any later
such projections delivered in response to a request pursuant to this
 8.4(i);

(j)        simultaneously with the delivery
of the financial statements referred to in subsection (c) above, a report
listing the aggregate number of Containers owned, rented, leased or managed by
the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, together with monthly utilization rate and
per diem rental rate information with respect to the Containers in form and
detail satisfactory to the Agent;

(k)        from time to time such other
financial data and information (including accountants  management letters)
as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request; and

(l)        simultaneously with the delivery
thereof to Interpool, copies of any notices with respect to the Subordinated
Debt delivered from time to time to Interpool pursuant to Section 5.8(n) of the
Subordinated Note Purchase Agreement.

The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the
Arranger will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information
provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively,
  Borrower Materials  ) by posting the Borrower Materials on
IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the
  Platform  ) and (b) certain of the Lenders may be
 public-side  Lenders ( i.e.,  Lenders that do not wish to
receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its
securities) (each, a   Public Lender  ). The Borrower hereby
agrees that so long as the Borrower is the issuer of any outstanding debt or
equity securities that are registered or issued pursuant to a private offering
or is actively contemplating issuing any such securities (w) all Borrower
Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and
conspicuously marked  PUBLIC  which, at a minimum, shall mean that the
word  PUBLIC  shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x)
by marking Borrower Materials  PUBLIC,  the Borrower shall be deemed
to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arranger, the L/C Issuer, the
Swing Line Lender and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not
containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or
its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws
 (provided ,  however , that to the extent such Borrower Materials
constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in Section
 10.07 ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked  PUBLIC  are permitted to be
made available through a portion of the Platform designated  Public Investor; 
and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger shall be entitled to treat any Borrower
Materials that are not marked  PUBLIC  as being suitable only for posting on a
portion of the Platform not designated  Public Investor.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing or anything to the contrary contained herein, the Borrower shall be under no
obligation to mark any Borrower Materials  PUBLIC.    

8.5.   Notices .    

8.5.1.   Defaults .   The Borrower will promptly
notify the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders in writing of the
occurrence of any Default or Event of Default, together with a reasonably
detailed description thereof, and the actions the Borrower proposes to take with
respect thereto. If any Person shall give any notice or take any other action in
respect of a claimed default (whether or not constituting an Event of Default)
under this Credit Agreement or any other note, evidence of indebtedness,
indenture or other obligation in excess of $100,000 in principal amount to which
or with respect to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or
obligor, whether as principal, guarantor, surety or otherwise, the Borrower
shall forthwith give written notice thereof to the Administrative Agent and each
of the Lenders, describing the notice or action and the nature of the claimed
default.

8.5.2.   Environmental Events .   The Borrower
will promptly give notice to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders
(a) of any violation of any Environmental Law that the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries reports in writing or is reportable by such Person in writing (or
for which any written report supplemental to any oral report is made) to any
Governmental Authority and (b) upon becoming aware thereof, of any inquiry,
proceeding, investigation, or other action, including a notice from any agency
of potential environmental liability, of any Governmental Authority that could
have a Material Adverse Effect.

8.5.3.   Notification of Claim against
Collateral .   The Borrower will, immediately upon becoming
aware thereof, notify the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders in
writing of any setoff, claims (including, with respect to the Real Estate,
environmental claims), withholdings or other defenses to which any of the
Collateral, or the Administrative Agent s rights with respect to the
Collateral, are subject.

8.5.4.   Notice of Litigation and
Judgments .   The Borrower will, and will cause each of its
Subsidiaries to, give notice to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders
in writing within fifteen (15) days of becoming aware of any litigation or
proceedings threatened in writing or any pending litigation and proceedings
affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or to which the Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries is or becomes a party involving an uninsured claim
against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that could reasonably be
expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries and stating the nature and status of such litigation or
proceedings. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, give
notice to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders, in writing, in form
and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, within ten (10) days of any
judgment not covered by insurance, final or otherwise, against the Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries in an amount in excess of $250,000.

8.5.5.   Notice of ERISA Event .   The Borrower
will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, give prompt notice to the
Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders in writing upon the occurrence of
any ERISA Event.

8.5.6.   Notice of Change in Accounting or Financial Reporting
Practices .   The Borrower will, and will cause each of its
Subsidiaries to, give prompt notice to the Administrative Agent and each of the
Lenders in writing of any material change in accounting policies or financial
reporting practices by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.

8.6.   Legal Existence; Maintenance of
Properties .   The Borrower will do or cause to be done all
things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its legal
existence, rights and franchises and those of its Subsidiaries and will not, and
will not cause or permit any of its Subsidiaries to, convert to a limited
liability company or a limited liability partnership. It (i) will use
commercially reasonable efforts to cause all of its properties and those of its
Subsidiaries used or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of
its Subsidiaries to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working
order (reasonable wear and tear excepted) and supplied with all necessary
equipment, (ii) will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals,
replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of
the Borrower may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection
therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted at all times, and (iii)
will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, continue to engage primarily
in the businesses now conducted by them and in related businesses;
 provided  that nothing in this  8.6 shall prevent the Borrower from
discontinuing the operation and maintenance of any of its properties or any of
those of its Subsidiaries if such discontinuance is, in the judgment of the
Borrower, desirable in the conduct of its or their business and that do not in
the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.   

8.7.   Insurance .   The Borrower will, and will
cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain with financially sound and reputable
insurers insurance with respect to its properties and business against such
casualties and contingencies as shall be in accordance with the general
practices of businesses engaged in similar activities in similar geographic
areas and in amounts, containing such terms, in such forms and for such periods
as may be reasonable and prudent and in accordance with the terms of the
Security Agreement.   

8.8.   Taxes .   The Borrower will, and will
cause each of its Subsidiaries to, duly pay and discharge, or cause to be paid
and discharged, before the same shall become overdue, all taxes, assessments and
other governmental charges imposed upon it and its Real Estate, sales and
activities, or any part thereof, or upon the income or profits therefrom, as
well as all claims for labor, materials, or supplies that if unpaid might by law
become a Lien or charge upon any of its property;  provided  that any such
tax, assessment, charge, levy or claim need not be paid if the validity or
amount thereof shall currently be contested in good faith by appropriate
proceedings and if the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall have set aside on its
books adequate reserves with respect thereto; and
 provided   further  that the Borrower and each Subsidiary of the Borrower will
pay all such taxes, assessments, charges, levies or claims forthwith upon the commencement
of proceedings to foreclose any Lien that may have attached as security therefor.   

8.9.   Inspection of Properties and Books, etc .    

8.9.1.   General .   Subject to  16.4, the
Borrower shall permit the Lenders, through the Administrative Agent or any of
the Lenders  other designated representatives upon reasonable advance
notice and at reasonable time during normal business hours, to visit and inspect
any of the properties of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, to examine the
books of account of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (and to make copies
thereof and extracts therefrom), and to discuss the affairs, finances and
accounts of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries with, and to be advised as to the
same by, its and their officers, and to conduct examinations and verifications
(whether by internal commercial finance examiners or independent auditors) of
all components included in the Borrowing Base, all at such reasonable times and
intervals as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request.

8.9.2.   Collateral Reports .   No more
frequently than twice during each calendar year, or more frequently as
determined by the Administrative Agent if an Event of Default shall have
occurred and be continuing, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, the
Borrower will obtain and deliver to the Administrative Agent, or, if the
Administrative Agent so elects, will cooperate with the Administrative Agent in
the Administrative Agent s obtaining, a report of an independent collateral
auditor satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may be affiliated with
one of the Lenders) with respect to the Containers and/or the other components
included in the Borrowing Base, which report shall indicate whether or not the
information set forth in the Borrowing Base Report most recently delivered is
accurate and complete in all material respects based upon a review by such
auditors of the Accounts Receivable (including verification with respect to the
amount, aging, identity and credit of the respective account debtors and the
billing practices of the Borrower or its applicable Subsidiary) and Containers
(including verification as to the value, location and respective types). All
such collateral value reports shall be conducted and made at the expense of the
Borrower.

8.9.3.   Appraisals .   No more frequently than
once each calendar year, or more frequently as determined by the Administrative
Agent if an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, upon the
reasonable request of the Administrative Agent, the Borrower will obtain and
deliver to the Administrative Agent appraisal reports in form and substance and
from appraisers satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, stating (a) the then
current fair market, orderly liquidation and forced liquidation values of all or
any portion of the equipment or real estate owned by the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries and (b) the then current business value of each of the Borrower and
its Subsidiaries. All such appraisals shall be conducted and made at the expense
of the Borrower.

8.9.4.   Environmental Assessments .   Upon
reasonable notice by the Administrative Agent, under any of the circumstances
described herein, the Administrative Agent may, from time to time, upon the
direction of the Required Lenders, for the purpose of assessing and ensuring the
value of any Real Estate, obtain one or more environmental assessments or audits
of such Real Estate prepared by a hydrogeologist, an independent engineer or
other qualified consultant or expert approved by the Administrative Agent to
evaluate or confirm (a) whether any Hazardous Materials are present in the soil
or water at such Real Estate and (b) whether the use and operation of such Real
Estate complies with all Environmental Laws. Environmental assessments may be
obtained (a) in the event the Borrower purchases any Real Estate without
providing the Lenders with copies of satisfactory environmental assessments or
audit obtained by the Borrower, (b) if the Administrative Agent or Required
Lenders have a reasonable objective basis to suspect that there has been a
 release  or threatened  release  of any Hazardous Substance
or (c) with respect to any Real Estate in which the Administrative Agent has a
security interest, after the occurrence of a Default of Event of Default.
Environmental assessments may include without limitation detailed visual
inspections of such Real Estate including, without limitation, any and all
storage areas, storage tanks, drains, dry wells and leaching areas, and the
taking of soil samples, surface water samples and ground water samples, as well
as such other investigations or analyses as the Administrative Agent deems
appropriate. The reasonable costs and expenses of such environmental assessments
shall be borne by the Borrower.

8.9.5.   Communications with Accountants .   The
Borrower authorizes the Administrative Agent and, if accompanied by the
Administrative Agent, the Lenders to communicate directly with the
Borrower s independent certified public accountants regarding the financial
statements delivered pursuant to  8.4 and, in connection therewith,
authorizes such accountants to disclose to the Administrative Agent and the
Lenders any and all financial statements and other supporting financial
documents and schedules including copies of any management letter with respect
to the business, financial condition and other affairs of the Borrower or any of
its Subsidiaries. At the request of the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall
deliver a letter addressed to such accountants instructing them to comply with
the provisions of this  8.9.5.

8.10.   Compliance with Laws, Contracts, Licenses, and
Permits .   The Borrower will, and will cause each of its
Subsidiaries to, comply (a) in all material respects with the applicable laws
and regulations wherever its business is conducted, including all Environmental
Laws, (b) with the provisions of its Governing Documents, (c) with all
agreements and instruments by which it or any of its properties may be bound and
(d) with all applicable decrees, orders, and judgments. If any authorization,
consent, approval, permit or license from any officer, agency or instrumentality
of any government shall become necessary or required in order that the Borrower
or any of its Subsidiaries may fulfill any of its obligations hereunder or any
of the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower or such Subsidiary is a party,
the Borrower will, or (as the case may be) will cause such Subsidiary to,
immediately take or cause to be taken all reasonable steps within the power of
the Borrower or such Subsidiary to obtain such authorization, consent, approval,
permit or license and furnish the Administrative Agent and the Lenders with
evidence thereof.   

8.11.   Employee Benefit Plans .   The Borrower
will (a) promptly upon filing the same with the Department of Labor or Internal
Revenue Service, furnish to the Administrative Agent a copy of the most recent
actuarial statement required to be submitted under  103(d) of ERISA and
Annual Report, Form 5500, with all required attachments, in respect of each
Guaranteed Pension Plan, (b) promptly upon receipt or dispatch, furnish to the
Administrative Agent any notice, report or demand sent or received in respect of
a Guaranteed Pension Plan under   302, 4041, 4042, 4043, 4063, 4065,
4066 and 4068 of ERISA, or in respect of a Multiemployer Plan, under
  4041A, 4202, 4219, 4242, or 4245 of ERISA .    

8.12.   Use of Proceeds .   The Borrower will use
the proceeds of the Revolving Credit Loans and obtain Letters of Credit solely
for the purposes set forth in  7.17.1.   

8.13.   Bank Accounts .   The Borrower will, and
will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, together with the employees, agents and
other Persons acting on behalf of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, receive and
hold in trust for the Administrative Agent and the Lenders all payments
constituting proceeds of Collateral which come into their possession or under
their control and, immediately upon receipt thereof, deposit such payments in
the form received, with any appropriate endorsements, in one of the accounts
designated as a central depository account on  Schedule   7.20 .

8.14.   Additional Mortgaged Property .    

(a)        If, after the Closing Date, the
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries acquires a fee interest in Real Estate, the
Borrower shall, or shall cause such Subsidiary to, deliver, within thirty (30)
days of such acquisition, to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the
Lenders and the Administrative Agent a fully executed valid and enforceable
first priority mortgage or deed of trust over such acquired Real Estate free and
clear of all defects and encumbrances except for Permitted Liens.   

(b)        If, after the Closing Date, the
Borrower intends to lease Real Estate, or to lease office space where it intends
to maintain books and records relating to its business, the Borrower shall use
reasonable best efforts to ensure that such lease permits the Administrative
Agent to obtain a first priority leasehold mortgage over such leased Real Estate
and to obtain from the landlord a waiver in form and substance satisfactory to
the Administrative Agent which acknowledges and consents to the Administrative
Agent s Liens on the personal property of the Borrower maintained on such
leased property and subordinates the landlord s claim to such property to
that of the Administrative Agent and permits the Administrative Agent to enter
such Real Estate in connection with the exercise of the Administrative
Agent s rights with respect to such Liens. Upon the execution of such
lease, the Borrower shall promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent a copy of
such lease, and, to the extent permitted by the applicable lease, the Borrower
shall deliver forthwith to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the
Lenders and the Administrative Agent a fully executed, valid and enforceable
first priority leasehold mortgage over such leased Real Estate, free and clear
of all defects and encumbrances except for Permitted Liens.   

(c)        Each such mortgage, leasehold
mortgage or deed of trust referred to in  8.14(a) and (b) shall be in form
and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, together with title
insurance policies, surveys, evidences of insurance with the Administrative
Agent named as loss payee and additional insured, legal opinions and other
documents and certificates with respect to such Real Estate (such policies (for
amounts that correspond to the fair market value of such property), surveys,
evidence of insurance, opinions and other documents and certificates referred to
in this  8.14 as reasonably required by the Administrative Agent.

8.15.   Interests in Intellectual
Property .   The Borrower shall, upon acquisition or creation of
any right, title or interest in any patent, trademark registrations, copyright
registrations or service mark registrations, or in any pending applications for
the same, promptly, but in no event later than thirty (30) days after such
creation or acquisition, notify the Administrative Agent of the same. The
Borrower shall, upon request of the Administrative Agent, execute, acknowledge
and deliver all such documents and instruments as the Administrative Agent may
reasonably require to confirm the Administrative Agent s security interest
for the benefit of the Lenders in and to any such patent, trademark or service
mark registrations, or applications for the same, as part of the Collateral
hereunder and appoints the Administrative Agent as the Borrower s
attorney-in-fact to execute and file the same.   

8.16.   New Guarantors .    In the event that the
Borrower obtains, in accordance with the provisions of  9.15 hereof, the
consent of the Required Lenders to create or acquire a new direct or indirect
Subsidiary, such Subsidiary shall concurrently with such event, or as soon as
practicable thereafter, execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an
instrument of joinder and accession, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, pursuant to which such
newly-created or acquired Subsidiary shall join the Guaranty and, subject to
 8.17, the applicable Security Documents, and shall accede to all of the
rights and obligations of a Guarantor thereunder, and, pursuant thereto, shall,
 inter   alia , guaranty the full payment and performance of the
Obligations. Further, the Borrower and such Subsidiary shall execute and deliver
to the Administrative Agent such other documentation as the Administrative Agent
may reasonably request in furtherance of the intent of this  8.16,
including, without limitation, an updated  Schedule   7.19  and
documentation of the type required to be supplied by the Borrower and initial
Guarantors as a condition precedent to the initial Revolving Credit Loans made
hereunder pursuant to  11 hereof.   

8.17.   Collateral Security of Guarantors .   If,
at any time, any Guarantor owns assets with an aggregate market value or book
value in excess of $2,000,000, such Guarantor shall promptly notify the
Administrative Agent thereof and, upon the request of the Administrative Agent,
such Guarantor shall become a party to any instruments, agreements and documents
and provide such other documentation as the Administrative Agent shall deem
necessary or desirable in order to provide a perfected first priority security
interest (subject only to Permitted Liens that are entitled to priority under
applicable law) to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the
Administrative Agent and the Lenders, in all of the assets of such Guarantor
including, without limitation, security agreements, pledge agreements, mortgages
or deeds of trust, Uniform Commercial Code searches and filings (or the
equivalent thereof in any applicable foreign jurisdiction), favorable opinions
of counsel (including local counsel) to such Guarantor (which shall cover, among
other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of,
inter alia, the all such documents) and other documentation of the type required
to be supplied by the Borrower as a condition precedent to the initial Revolving
Credit Loans made hereunder pursuant to  11 hereof, all in form, content
and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.   

8.18.   Further Assurances .   The Borrower will,
and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, cooperate with the Lenders and the
Administrative Agent and execute such further instruments and documents as the
Lenders or the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request to carry out to
their satisfaction the transactions contemplated by this Credit Agreement and
the other Loan Documents.   

   9.   CERTAIN NEGATIVE COVENANTS .   

The Borrower covenants and agrees that, so long as any Revolving Credit Loan,
Unpaid Reimbursement Obligation, Letter of Credit, Swing Line Loan or Revolving
Credit Note is outstanding or any Lender has any obligation to make any
Revolving Credit Loans or the L/C Issuer has any obligation to issue, extend or
renew any Letters of Credit or the Swing Line Lender has any obligation to make
Swing Line Loans:   

9.1.   Restrictions on Indebtedness .   The
Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, create,
incur, assume, guarantee or be or remain liable, contingently or otherwise, with
respect to any Indebtedness other than:   

(a)        Indebtedness to the Lenders and
the Administrative Agent arising under any of the Loan Documents;

(b)        Indebtedness in respect of taxes,
assessments, governmental charges or levies and claims for labor, materials and
supplies to the extent that payment therefor shall not at the time be required
to be made in accordance with the provisions of  8.8;

(c)        Indebtedness in respect of
judgments or awards that have been in force for less than the applicable period
for taking an appeal so long as execution is not levied thereunder or in respect
of which the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall at the time in good faith be
prosecuting an appeal or proceedings for review and in respect of which a stay
of execution shall have been obtained pending such appeal or review;

(d)        endorsements for collection,
deposit or negotiation and warranties of products or services, in each case
incurred in the ordinary course of business;

(e)        Subordinated Debt;

(f)        Indebtedness (in addition to
similar Indebtedness permitted under clause (g) hereof) incurred in connection
with the acquisition or lease after the date hereof of any real or personal
property by the Borrower or such Subsidiary or under any Capitalized Leases,
 provided   that  (i) the aggregate principal amount of such
Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (exclusive of the aggregate
principal amount of Nonrecourse Loans) shall not exceed $25,000,000 outstanding
at any one time and (ii) the principal amount of such Indebtedness secured by or
relating to the lease of any particular property shall not exceed 100% of the
purchase price of such property;

(g)        Indebtedness existing on the date
hereof and listed and described on  Schedule   9.1  hereto; and

(h)        any renewal or refinancing of any
Indebtedness permitted under this  9.1;  provided  that any such
refinancing or renewal does not (i) increase the aggregate amount of such
Indebtedness, (ii) increase the interest rate or fees applicable to, or shorten
the weighted average life to maturity of, such Indebtedness, (iii) change, alter
or modify the terms of such Indebtedness in any manner which violates either
 9.8 hereof or the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement or (iv) add to
the collateral, if any, securing such Indebtedness;

(i)        Indebtedness of the Borrower and
its Subsidiaries consisting of short-term trade credit extended to the Borrower
or such Subsidiary in the ordinary course of such Person s business in
connection with the acquisition of Containers and other equipment;
 provided  that such Indebtedness shall not be in existence for more than
180 days after the occurrence of the transaction giving rise thereto;

(j)        Indebtedness in respect of
Interest Rate Protection Agreements;

(k)        Indebtedness of a Subsidiary of
the Borrower to the Borrower consisting of Investments permitted by
 9.3(e); and

(l)        Indebtedness consisting of
obligations (contingent or otherwise) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary existing
or arising under any Swap Contract entered into with any Lender or the
Administrative Agent,  provided  that (i) such obligations are (or were)
entered into by such Person in the ordinary course of business for the purpose
of directly mitigating risks associated with liabilities, commitments,
investments, assets, or property held or reasonably anticipated by such Person,
or changes in the value of securities issued by such Person, and not for
purposes of speculation or taking a  market view;  and (ii) such Swap
Contract does not contain any provision exonerating the non-defaulting party
from its obligation to make payments on outstanding transactions to the
defaulting party.

9.2.   Restrictions on Liens .    

9.2.1.        Permitted Liens .
 The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, (a)
create or incur or suffer to be created or incurred or to exist any Lien upon
any of its property or assets of any character whether now owned or hereafter
acquired, or upon the income or profits therefrom; (b) transfer any of such
property or assets or the income or profits therefrom for the purpose of
subjecting the same to the payment of Indebtedness or performance of any other
obligation in priority to payment of its general creditors; (c) acquire, or
agree or have an option to acquire, any property or assets upon conditional sale
or other title retention or purchase money security agreement, device or
arrangement; (d) suffer to exist for a period of more than thirty (30) days
after the same shall have been incurred any Indebtedness or claim or demand
against it that if unpaid might by law or upon bankruptcy or insolvency, or
otherwise, be given any priority whatsoever over its general creditors; or (e)
sell, assign, pledge or otherwise transfer any   receivables   as
defined in clause (g) of the definition of the term
  Indebtedness ,  with or without recourse;  provided  that
the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries may create or incur or suffer to be
created or incurred or to exist:

(i) Liens in favor of the Borrower on all or part of the assets of Subsidiaries
of the Borrower securing Indebtedness owing by Subsidiaries of the Borrower to
the Borrower;

(ii) Liens to secure taxes, assessments and other government charges in respect
of obligations not overdue or Liens on properties to secure claims for labor,
material or supplies in respect of obligations not overdue;

(iii) deposits or pledges made in connection with, or to secure payment of,
workmen s compensation, unemployment insurance, old age pensions or other
social security obligations;

(iv) Liens on properties in respect of judgments or awards, the Indebtedness
with respect to which is permitted by  9.1(c);

(v) Liens of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics and materialmen, and other like
Liens on properties, in existence less than 120 days from the date of creation
thereof in respect of obligations not overdue;

(vi) encumbrances on Real Estate consisting of easements, rights of way, zoning
restrictions, restrictions on the use of real property and defects and
irregularities in the title thereto, landlord s or lessor s liens
under leases to which the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower is a party,
and other minor Liens,  provided  that none of such Liens (A) interferes
materially with the use of the property affected in the ordinary conduct of the
business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, and (B) individually or in the
aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect;

(vii) Liens existing  on the date hereof and listed on
 Schedule   9.2  hereto;

(viii) purchase money security interests in or purchase money mortgages on real
or personal property acquired (in the case of purchase money security interests)
or leased (in the case of Capitalized Leases) after the Closing Date to secure
purchase money Indebtedness or Capitalized Leases of the type and amount
permitted by  9.1(f), which security interests or mortgages cover only the
real or personal property so acquired or leased and any proceeds thereof
(including, without limitation, leases, Accounts Receivable, instruments and
documents);

(ix) Liens on assets and property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in favor
of Interpool that secure the Interpool Subordinated Debt;  provided , that
all such Liens are at all times junior and subordinate to the Liens granted by
the Borrower to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders pursuant
to the Security Documents on such terms set forth in the Subordination
Documents;

(x) Liens in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders
and the Administrative Agent securing the Obligations;

(xi) Liens consisting of the interest of a lessee under any lease with respect
to Containers where the Borrower is the lessor;

(xii) Liens on the property listed on  Schedule   9.2  hereto that are
granted to secure any refinancing or renewal of Indebtedness permitted under
 9.1, which refinancing or renewal is permitted under  9.1(h) hereof
(subject to all the provisos contained therein); provided that (a) such Liens
encumber the same property (and no additional assets or property of the
Borrower) as secured the Indebtedness that was so refinanced or renewed and (b)
the aggregate amount of Indebtedness secured by such property has not increased
as a result of such refinancing or renewal; and

(xiii) interests of lessors in property leased to the Borrower or a Subsidiary
under  9.1(f).

9.2.2  Restrictions on Negative Pledges and Upstream Limitations . 
The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any of its Subsidiaries to (a) enter
into or permit to exist any arrangement or agreement (excluding the Credit
Agreement and the other Loan Documents) which directly or indirectly prohibits
the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries from creating, assuming or incurring any
Lien upon its properties, revenues or assets or those of any of its Subsidiaries
whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or (b) enter into any agreement,
contract or arrangement (excluding the Credit Agreement and the other Loan
Documents) restricting the ability of any Subsidiary of the Borrower to pay or
make dividends or distributions in cash or kind to the Borrower, to make loans,
advances or other payments of whatsoever nature to the Borrower, or to make
transfers or distributions of all or any part of its assets to the Borrower; in
each case other than (i) restrictions on specific assets which assets are the
subject of purchase money security interests to the extent permitted under
 9.2.1, and (ii) customary anti-assignment provisions contained in leases
and licensing agreements entered into by the Borrower or such Subsidiary in the
ordinary course of its business.   

9.3.   Restrictions on Investments .   The
Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, make or
permit to exist or to remain outstanding any Investment except Investments in:

(a)        marketable direct or guaranteed
obligations of the United States of America or Japan that mature within one (1)
year from the date of purchase by the Borrower;

(b)        demand deposits, certificates of
deposit, bankers acceptances and time deposits of United States or Japanese
banks having total assets in excess of $1,000,000,000;

(c)        securities commonly known as
  commercial   paper   issued by a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of Japan or the United States of America or any state
thereof that at the time of purchase have been rated and the ratings for which
are not less than  P 1  if rated by Moody s, and not less
than  A 1  if rated by S 

(d)        Investments existing on the date
hereof and listed on  Schedule   9.3  hereto;

(e)        Investments by the Borrower in
Subsidiaries that are Guarantors;  provided  that the aggregate amount of
such Investments does not exceed $3,000,000 at any time;

(f)        Investments consisting of the
Guaranty; and

(g)        Investments consisting of advances
to employees pursuant to the Staff Loan Program,  provided  that the
aggregate amount of such Investments shall not exceed $1,500,000 at any time;

9.4.   Restricted Payments .   The Borrower will
not make any Restricted Payments except that, so long as no Default or Event of
Default then exists or would result from such payment, the Borrower may make (i)
Distributions consisting of the redemption of up to 2,679 shares of the Capital
Stock of the Borrower from certain executive employees of the Borrower (other
than Mr. Hiromitsu Ogawa and members of his immediate family) upon the
termination of such Person s employment with the Borrower, (ii) payments to
Interpool and its Affiliates pursuant to the provisions of any of the documents
listed on
 Schedule   7.15  hereto, (iii) payments of interest with respect to the
Interpool Subordinated Debt pursuant to, and in accordance with, the terms and conditions
of the Subordination Documents, (iv) the Closing Interpool Repayment and (v) prepayments
of principal with respect to the Interpool Subordinated Debt permitted pursuant to
 9.8.   

9.5.   Merger, Acquisitions and Consolidation; Disposition of
Assets .    

9.5.1.   Mergers and Acquisitions .   The
Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, become a
party to any merger or consolidation, or agree to or effect any asset
acquisition or stock acquisition (other than the acquisition of assets in the
ordinary course of business consistent with past practices) except the merger or
consolidation of one or more of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower with and into
the Borrower, with the Borrower as the surviving entity, or with and into a
Subsidiary party to the Guaranty, with the Subsidiary party to the Guaranty as
the surviving entity, or the merger or consolidation of two or more Subsidiaries
of the Borrower.

9.5.2.   Disposition of Assets .   The Borrower
will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, become a party to or
agree to or effect any disposition of assets, other than the disposition of
assets in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices,
 provided  that, in connection with any such disposition of Collateral
consisting of Containers having a Net Book Value of $1,000,000 or more and the
proceeds thereof, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an
updated Borrowing Base Report demonstrating the Borrower s compliance with
the lending limitations set forth in  2.1 hereof.

9.6.   Sale and Leaseback .   Unless the Required
Lenders shall have given their prior written consent, the Borrower will not, and
will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any arrangement, directly
or indirectly, whereby the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower shall sell
or transfer any property owned by it in order then or thereafter to lease such
property or lease other property that the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the
Borrower intends to use for substantially the same purpose as the property being
sold or transferred, except for such transactions as would be permitted under
 9.1(f).   

9.7.   Compliance with Environmental Laws .   The
Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, (a) use any
of the Real Estate or any portion thereof for the handling, processing, storage
or disposal of Hazardous Substances, (b) cause or permit to be located on any of
the Real Estate any underground tank or other underground storage receptacle for
Hazardous Substances, (c) generate any Hazardous Substances on any of the Real
Estate, (d) conduct any activity at any Real Estate or use any Real Estate in
any manner so as to cause a release (i.e. releasing, spilling, leaking, pumping,
pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching,
disposing or dumping) or threatened release of Hazardous Substances on, upon or
into the Real Estate or (e) otherwise conduct any activity at any Real Estate or
use any Real Estate in any manner that would violate any Environmental Law or
bring such Real Estate in violation of any Environmental Law.   

9.8.   Subordinated Debt; Master Lease
Agreements .   The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any of
its Subsidiaries to, amend, supplement or otherwise modify the terms of any of
the Subordinated Debt, any of the Subordination Documents or the Master Lease
Agreements (a) which amendment, supplement or modification effects any increase
in the principal amount of the Subordinated Debt except through the issuance of
additional Subordinated Notes in payment of interest on the Subordinated Notes,
the interest rate thereon or any fees thereunder, or shortens the maturity or
average life to maturity thereof, adds or modifies to make more burdensome to
the Borrower the terms of any required prepayments, redemptions, or repurchases
(other than waivers or deferrals thereof) thereunder or under the Master Lease
Agreements, modifies the terms of the subordination provisions thereof, or makes
more burdensome to the Borrower or such Subsidiary, the financial covenants
contained therein or in the Master Lease Agreements or adds additional such
covenants or events of default therein or in the Master Lease Agreements or (b)
which amendment, supplement or modification relates to other terms and
provisions of the Subordinated Debt or any Master Lease Agreement and the
cumulative effect of which is to make the Subordinated Debt or such Master Lease
Agreement materially more restrictive of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, or
materially adversely affect the Administrative Agent s or the Lender s
rights or interests thereunder or under the Loan Documents or the
Borrower s ability to fulfill its obligations under the Loan Documents. The
Borrower will not, nor will it permit any of its Subsidiaries to prepay, redeem
or repurchase or issue any notice of redemption with respect to, or take any
other action which would require the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to
prepay, redeem or repurchase any of the Subordinated Debt or the Master Lease
Agreements;  provided  that, notwithstanding the foregoing, if no Default
or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from
therefrom, and otherwise subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the
Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement, (a) the Borrower may make regularly
scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Interpool Subordinated Debt
in accordance with   2.3(b) and 2.6(b) of the Subordinated Note
Purchase Agreement (as such agreement is in effect on the date hereof);
 provided  that such regularly scheduled payments of principal under to
 2.6(b) of the Subordinated Note Purchase Agreement shall not exceed
$1,683,000 in any quarter; (b) the Borrower may make the Closing Interpool
Repayment, (c) the Borrower may prepay (in whole or in part) the outstanding
amount of the Master Lease Agreements and (d) the Borrower may prepay (in whole
or in part) the outstanding amount of Interpool Subordinated Debt (other than
the Closing Interpool Repayment);  provided  that, in connection with any
prepayment under the foregoing clause (d), (i) the Total Leverage Ratio for the
most recently ended Reference Period, after giving pro forma effect to such
prepayment, shall not exceed 3.00:1.00, (ii) at the time of such prepayment, the
ratio of (x) Senior Funded Debt to (y) Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net Worth
at such time shall not exceed 2.50:1.00, (iii) Excess Availability before and
immediately after giving effect to such prepayment shall not be less than
$10,000,000, and (iv) the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent and
the Lenders a certificate of a Responsible Officer, in form and substance
reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, certifying and
demonstrating compliance with the foregoing requirements in clauses (i) though
(iii) above.   

9.9.   Employee Benefit Plans .   Neither the
Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate will:   

(a)        engage in any
  prohibited   transaction   within the meaning of  406
of ERISA or  4975 of the Code which could result in a material liability
for the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; or

(b)        permit any Guaranteed Pension Plan
to incur an   accumulated   funding   deficiency  , as
such term is defined in  302 of ERISA, whether or not such deficiency is or
may be waived; or

(c)        fail to contribute to any
Guaranteed Pension Plan to an extent which, or terminate any Guaranteed Pension
Plan in a manner which, could result in the imposition of a lien or encumbrance
on the assets of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to
 302(f) or  4068 of ERISA; or

(d)        amend any Guaranteed Pension Plan
in circumstances requiring the posting of security pursuant to  307 of
ERISA or  401(a)(29) of the Code; or

(e)        permit or take any action which
would result in the aggregate benefit liabilities (within the meaning of
 4001 of ERISA) of all Guaranteed Pension Plans exceeding the value of the
aggregate assets of such Plans, disregarding for this purpose the benefit
liabilities and assets of any such Plan with assets in excess of benefit
liabilities.

9.10.     Business Activities .   The
Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, engage
directly or indirectly (whether through Subsidiaries or otherwise) in any type
of business other than the businesses conducted by them on the Closing Date and
in related businesses.   

9.11.   Fiscal Year .   The Borrower will not,
and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, change the date of the end of
its fiscal (or financial) year from that set forth in  7.4.1.

9.12.     Transactions with
Affiliates .   Except as otherwise permitted by the terms of
 7.15, the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries
to, engage in any transaction with any Affiliate (other than for services as
employees, officers and directors), including any contract, agreement or other
arrangement providing for the furnishing of services to or by, providing for
rental of real or personal property to or from, or otherwise requiring payments
to or from any such Affiliate or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, any
corporation, partnership, trust or other entity in which any such Affiliate has
a substantial interest or is an officer, director, trustee or partner, on terms
more favorable to such Person than would have been obtainable on an
arm s-length basis in the ordinary course of business.   

9.13.   Bank Accounts .   The Borrower will not,
and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, (a) establish any bank accounts
other than those accounts listed on  Schedule   7.20 , without
the Administrative Agent s prior written consent, or (b) deposit into any
of the payroll accounts listed on  Schedule   7.20  any amounts
in excess of amounts necessary to pay current payroll obligations from such
accounts.   

9.14.   Capital   Stock .   Unless it shall
in each instance have obtained the prior written consent of the Required
Lenders, the Borrower shall not (i) issue any new Capital Stock except (A) to
employees of the Borrower pursuant to employee stock option plans and (B) to
Interpool or Mr. Hiromitsu Ogawa, President of the Borrower, or (ii) convert any
shares of any existing class of Voting Stock into shares of any class of Capital
Stock which is not Voting Stock or (iii) amend its Governing Documents so as to
accomplish or permit any of the foregoing.   

9.15.   Creation of Subsidiaries .    

The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, create
or acquire any Subsidiary without the prior written consent of the Required
Lenders.   

10.   FINANCIAL COVENANTS .   

The
Borrower covenants and agrees that, so long as any Revolving Credit Loan, Unpaid
Reimbursement Obligation, Letter of Credit, Swing Line Loan or Revolving Credit Note is
outstanding or any Lender has any obligation to make any Revolving Credit Loans or the L/C
Issuer has any obligation to issue, extend or renew any Letters of Credit or the Swing
Line Lender has any obligation to make Swing Line Loans:   

10.1.   Total Leverage Ratio .   

The
Borrower will not permit the Total Leverage Ratio, as at the end of any Reference Period
ending on or during any period described in the table set forth below, to exceed the ratio
set forth opposite such period in such table:   

Period  
     Ratio  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower prepays (in
whole or in part) the outstanding amount of Interpool Subordinated Debt (other than the
Closing Interpool Repayment), the Borrower will not permit the Total Leverage Ratio, as at
the end of any Reference Period ending on or after the date that such prepayment is made,
to exceed 3.00:1.00.   

10.2.   Fixed
Charge Coverage Ratio .   The Borrower will not permit, as at the end of
any Reference Period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Operating Cash Flow to (b)
Consolidated Total Debt Service to be less than 1.25:1.00.   

10.3.   Interest
Coverage .   The Borrower will not, at the end of any Reference
Period, permit the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for such Reference Period to (b)
Consolidated Total Interest Expense for such Reference Period, to be less than 3.00:1.00.   

10.4.   Senior
Funded Debt to Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net Worth .   The Borrower
will not permit, as at any date of determination occurring during any period described in
the table set forth below, the ratio of (a) Senior Funded Debt to (d) Consolidated
Adjusted Tangible Net Worth to exceed the ratio set forth opposite such period in such
table:   

Period  
     Ratio  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower prepays (in
whole or in part) the outstanding amount of Interpool Subordinated Debt (other than the
Closing Interpool Repayment), the Borrower will not permit the ratio of (a) Senior Funded
Debt to (b) Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net Worth, as at any date of determination
occurring on or after the date that such prepayment is made, to exceed 2.50:1.00.   

11.   CLOSING CONDITIONS .   

The
obligations of the Lenders to make the initial Revolving Credit Loans and of the L/C
Issuer to issue any initial Letters of Credit and of the Swing Line Lender to make Swing
Line Loans on the Closing Date shall be subject to the satisfaction of the following
conditions precedent   on or prior to May 15, 2005.   

11.1.   Loan Documents etc.    

11.1.1.   Loan Documents .   Each of the Loan
Documents shall have been duly executed and delivered by the respective parties
thereto, shall be in full force and effect and shall be in form and substance
satisfactory to each of the Lenders. Each Lender shall have received a fully
executed copy of each such document.  

11.1.2.   Subordination
Documents; Master Lease Agreements .  

The
Interpool Subordinated Debt shall have been amended on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders in accordance with the terms hereof and
of the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement, and the Administrative Agent shall have
received a copy of the resolutions of Interpool approving the transactions contemplated by
such amendment. Each Lender shall have received a duly executed copy, certified by an
authorized officer of the Borrower as true, correct and complete and in full force and
effect as of the Closing Date, of each of the Subordination Documents, as amended.  

11.1.2.2.   Master Lease Agreements .  
 
          Each
of the Master Lease Agreements shall have been amended on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders and in accordance with the terms
hereof. Each Lender shall have received a duly executed copy, certified by an authorized
officer of the Borrower as true, correct and complete and in full force and effect as of
the Closing Date, of each of the Master Lease Agreements, as amended.  

11.1.2.3.   Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement .  
 
          The
Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement shall have been amended on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders in accordance with the
terms hereof, and the Administrative Agent shall have received a copy of the resolutions
of Interpool approving the transactions contemplated by such amendment. Each Lender shall
have received a duly executed copy, certified by an authorized officer of the Borrower as
true, correct and complete and in full force and effect as of the Closing Date, of such
Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement, as amended.  

11.2.   Certified
Copies of Governing Documents .   Each of the Lenders shall have received
from the Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries a copy, certified by a duly authorized
officer of such Person to be true and complete on the Closing Date, of each of its
Governing Documents as in effect on such date of certification.   

11.3.   Corporate
or Other Action .   All corporate (or other) action necessary for the
valid execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries of
this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which it is or is to become a party
shall have been duly and effectively taken, and evidence thereof satisfactory to the
Lenders shall have been provided to each of the Lenders.   

11.4.   Incumbency
Certificate .   Each of the Lenders shall have received from the Borrower
and each of its Subsidiaries an incumbency certificate, dated as of the Closing Date,
signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, and giving the
name and bearing a specimen signature of each individual who shall be authorized: (a) to
sign, in the name and on behalf of each of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, each of the
Loan Documents and Subordination Documents to which the Borrower or such Subsidiary is or
is to become a party; (b) in the case of the Borrower, to make Loan Requests, Swing Line
Loan Notices and Conversion Requests and to apply for Letters of Credit; and (c) to give
notices and to take other action on its behalf under the Loan Documents.   

11.5.   Validity
of Liens .   The Security Documents shall be effective to create in favor
of the Administrative Agent a legal, valid and enforceable first (except for Permitted
Liens entitled to priority under applicable law) security interest in and Lien upon the
Collateral. All filings, recordings, deliveries of instruments and other actions necessary
or desirable in the opinion of the Administrative Agent to protect and preserve such
security interests shall have been duly effected. The Administrative Agent shall have
received evidence thereof in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.   

11.6.   Asset
List; Perfection Certificates and UCC Search Results .   The
Administrative Agent shall have received from the Borrower a list detailing all of the
Borrower s and its Subsidiaries  assets and properties as at the date stated
thereon (which shall be on or after February 28, 2005), and descriptions of any and all
Liens (other than Permitted Liens) encumbering any such assets as well as copies of any
and all loan documentation evidencing the Indebtedness to which any such Liens (other than
Permitted Liens) relate, all certified as true and accurate by a Responsible Officer of
the Borrower. The Administrative Agent shall have received from each of the Borrower and
its Subsidiaries completed and fully executed Perfection Certificates and the results of
Uniform Commercial Code searches (and the equivalent thereof in all applicable foreign
jurisdictions) with respect to the Collateral, indicating no Liens other than Permitted
Liens and otherwise in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.   

11.7.   Certificates
of Insurance .   The Administrative Agent shall have received (a) a
certificate of insurance from an independent insurance broker dated on or about the
Closing Date, identifying insurers, types of insurance, insurance limits, and policy
terms, and otherwise describing the insurance obtained in accordance with the provisions
of the Security Agreement and (b) certified copies of all policies evidencing such
insurance (or certificates therefore signed by the insurer or an agent authorized to bind
the insurer).   

11.8.   Borrowing
Base Report .   The Administrative Agent shall have received from the
Borrower the initial Borrowing Base Report, dated as of the Closing Date.   

11.9.   Financial
Condition .   The Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders shall have
received from the Borrower the financial statements and projections referred to in
  7.4.2 and 7.4.3 and shall be satisfied that such financial statements fairly
represent the financial position of the Borrower as of the respective dates of such
financial statements.   

11.10.   Opinion
of Counsel .   Each of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall have
received a favorable legal opinion addressed to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent,
dated as of the Closing Date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Lenders and the
Administrative Agent, from (a) Perkins Coie LLP, counsel to the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries and (b) Stroock   Stroock   Lavan LLP, counsel to Interpool regarding
the enforceability of Interpool s obligations under the Loan Documents to which
Interpool is a party.   

11.11.   Payment
of Fees .   The Borrower shall have paid to the Lenders or the
Administrative Agent, as appropriate, the fees referred to in  5.1, together with the
reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of the Administrative Agent s Special
Counsel as of the Closing Date.   

11.12.   Payoff
Letter .   Each of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall have
received a payoff letter from Fleet National Bank, as administrative agent under the
Existing Credit Agreement, indicating the amount of the loan obligations of the Borrower
to the Existing Lenders to be discharged on the Closing Date (which obligations shall not
include Existing Letters of Credit being continued hereunder) and an acknowledgment by
Fleet National Bank that upon receipt of such funds it will forthwith execute and/or
deliver to the Administrative Agent for filing all termination statements and take such
other actions as may be necessary to discharge all mortgages, deeds of trust and security
interests granted by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries securing the obligations
under the Existing Credit Agreement.   

11.13.   Commercial
Finance Exam, etc .   The Administrative Agent shall have received the
results of a commercial finance exam conducted by Evergreen Collateral Consulting and any
such other reports or certificates as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request,
which, in each case, shall be satisfactory to the Administrative Agent in all respects.   

Without
limiting the generality of the provisions of  14.3, for purposes of determining
compliance with the conditions specified in this  11, each Lender that has signed
this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be
satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or
approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent
shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying
its objection thereto.   

12.   CONDITIONS TO ALL BORROWINGS .   

The
obligations of the Lenders to make any Revolving Credit Loan, and of the Administrative
Agent to issue, extend or renew any Letter of Credit, or of the Swing Line Lender to make
any Swing Line Loans, in each case whether on or after the Closing Date, shall also be
subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:   

12.1.  
 Representations True; No Event of Default .   Each of the representations and warranties
of any of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries contained in this Credit Agreement, the other
Loan Documents or in any document or instrument delivered pursuant to or in connection
with this Credit Agreement shall be true as of the date as of which they were made and
shall also be true at and as of the time of the making of such Revolving Credit Loan, or
such Swing Line Loan, or the issuance, extension or renewal of such Letter of Credit, with
the same effect as if made at and as of that time (except to the extent of changes
resulting from transactions contemplated or permitted by this Credit Agreement and the
other Loan Documents and changes occurring in the ordinary course of business that singly
or in the aggregate are not materially adverse, and to the extent that such
representations and warranties relate expressly to an earlier date) and no Default or
Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would result from the making of
such Revolving Credit Loan, or such Swing Line Loan, or the issuance, extension or renewal
of such Letter of Credit. The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate of
the Borrower signed by an authorized officer of the Borrower to such effect.   

12.2.   No
Legal Impediment .   No change shall have occurred in any law or
regulations thereunder or interpretations thereof that in the reasonable opinion of any
Lender would make it illegal for such Lender to make any Revolving Credit Loan, Swing Line
Loan or to participate in the issuance, extension or renewal of such Letter of Credit or
in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent would make it illegal for the
Administrative Agent to issue, extend or renew such Letter of Credit.   

12.3.   Governmental Regulation .   

Each
Lender shall have received such statements in substance and form reasonably satisfactory
to such Lender as such Lender shall require for the purpose of compliance with any
applicable regulations of the Comptroller of the Currency or the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System.   

12.4.   Proceedings
and Documents .   All proceedings in connection with the transactions
contemplated by this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents and all other documents
incident thereto shall be satisfactory in substance and in form to the Lenders and to the
Administrative Agent and the Administrative Agent s Special Counsel, and the Lenders,
the Administrative Agent and such counsel shall have received all information and such
counterpart originals or certified or other copies of such documents as the Administrative
Agent may reasonably request.   

12.5.   Borrowing
Base Report .   The Administrative Agent shall have received the most
recent Borrowing Base Report required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent in
accordance with  8.4(f).   

13.   EVENTS OF DEFAULT; ACCELERATION; ETC.    

13.1.   Events
of Default and Acceleration .   If any of the following events
(  Events   of   Default   or, if the giving of notice or the
lapse of time or both is required, then, prior to such notice or lapse of time,
  Defaults  ) shall occur:   

(a)   the Borrower shall fail to
pay any principal of the Revolving Credit Loans, Swing Line Loans or any
Reimbursement Obligation when the same shall become due and payable, whether at
the stated date of maturity or any accelerated date of maturity or at any other
date fixed for payment and, except in the case of an acceleration of the
maturity of the Loans, in which case an Event of Default shall occur
immediately, such failure shall continue for a period of five (5) days;

(b)  
               the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any interest on the
               Revolving Credit Loans or the Swing Line Loans, any fees or other sums due
               hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents, when the same shall become
               due and payable, whether at the stated date of maturity or any accelerated date
               of maturity or at any other date fixed for payment and, except in the case of an
               acceleration of the maturity of the Loans, in which case an Event of Default
               shall occur immediately, such failure shall continue for a period of five (5)
               days;    

(c)  
               the Borrower shall fail to comply with any of its covenants contained in
                 8.1, 8.2 (other than with respect to moves within the State of
               California), 8.4, 8.5, 8.9, 8.12, 8.14, 8.15, 9 or 10 or any of the covenants
               contained in any of the Security Documents ( provided , that this reference
               to covenants in the Security Documents shall not abridge grace periods provided
               with respect to certain Defaults also addressed in this Agreement);    

(d)  
               the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to perform any term, covenant
               or agreement contained herein or in any of the other Loan Documents (other than
               those specified elsewhere in this  13.1) for fifteen (15) days after
               written notice of such failure has been given to the Borrower by the
               Administrative Agent;    

(e)  
               any representation or warranty of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in
               this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or in any other
               document or instrument delivered pursuant to or in connection with this Credit
               Agreement shall prove to have been false, incorrect or incomplete in any
               material respect upon the date when made or deemed to have been made or
               repeated;    

(f)  
               the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall (x) fail to pay at maturity, or
               within any applicable period of grace, (i) any obligation for borrowed money or
               credit received in an aggregate principal amount in excess of $100,000, (ii) any
               obligation in respect of any Capitalized Leases in an aggregate amount in excess
               of $100,000, or (iii) any obligation in respect of any operating leases with
               respect to which the present value (calculated at a discount rate of nine
               percent (9%) per annum) of the future obligations of the Borrower and its
               Subsidiaries thereunder exceeds $100,000, or (y) fail to observe or perform any
               material term, covenant or agreement contained in any agreement referenced in
               clauses (i) through (iii) above for such period of time as would permit
               (assuming the giving of appropriate notice if required) the holder or holders
               thereof or of any obligations issued thereunder to accelerate the maturity
               thereof, or any such holder or holders shall rescind or shall have a right to
               rescind the purchase of any such obligations;    

(g)  
               (i) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall make an assignment for the
               benefit of creditors, or admit in writing its inability to pay or generally fail
               to pay its debts as they mature or become due, or shall petition or apply for
               the appointment of a trustee or other custodian, liquidator or receiver of the
               Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or of any substantial part of the assets of
               the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or shall commence any case or other
               proceeding relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries under any
               bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, readjustment of debt,
               dissolution or liquidation or similar law of any jurisdiction, now or hereafter
               in effect, or shall take any action to authorize or in furtherance of any of the
               foregoing; or (ii) if any such petition or application shall be filed or any
               such case or other proceeding shall be commenced against the Borrower or any of
               its Subsidiaries and, with respect to this clause (ii) only, (x) the Borrower or
               any of its Subsidiaries shall indicate its approval thereof, consent thereto or
               acquiescence therein or (y) such petition or application shall not have been
               dismissed within thirty (30) days following the filing thereof;    

(h)  
               a decree or order is entered appointing any such trustee, custodian, liquidator
               or receiver or adjudicating the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries bankrupt or
               insolvent, or approving a petition in any such case or other proceeding, or a
               decree or order for relief is entered in respect of the Borrower or any
               Subsidiary of the Borrower in an involuntary case under federal bankruptcy laws
               as now or hereafter constituted;    

(i)  
               there shall remain in force, undischarged, unsatisfied and unstayed, for more
               than thirty (30) days, whether or not consecutive, any final judgment against
               the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that, with other outstanding final
               judgments, undischarged, against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries exceeds
               in the aggregate $50,000;    

(j)  
               the holders of all or any part of the Subordinated Debt shall accelerate the
               maturity of all or any part of the Subordinated Debt, or a notice of redemption
               (mandatory or otherwise) shall be issued with respect to the Subordinated Debt,
               or the Subordinated Debt shall be prepaid, redeemed or repurchased in whole or
               in part (except as otherwise permitted under  9.8 of this Credit
               Agreement);    

(k)  
               Interpool shall fail to comply with any of the terms of the Subordination and
               Intercreditor Agreement;    

(l)  
               if any of the Loan Documents shall be cancelled, terminated, revoked or
               rescinded or the Administrative Agent s Liens in a substantial portion of
               the Collateral shall cease to be perfected, or shall cease to have the priority
               contemplated by the Security Documents, in each case otherwise than in
               accordance with the terms thereof or with the express prior written agreement,
               consent or approval of the Lenders, or any action at law, suit or in equity or
               other legal proceeding to cancel, revoke or rescind any of the Loan Documents
               shall be commenced by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries
               party thereto or any of their respective stockholders, or any court or any other
               governmental or regulatory authority or agency of competent jurisdiction shall
               make a determination that, or issue a judgment, order, decree or ruling to the
               effect that, any one or more of the Loan Documents is illegal, invalid or
               unenforceable in accordance with the terms thereof;    

(m)  
               the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate incurs any liability to the PBGC or a
               Guaranteed Pension Plan in connection with the termination of a Guaranteed
               Pension Plan pursuant to Title IV of ERISA in an aggregate amount exceeding
               $500,000, or the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is assessed withdrawal
               liability pursuant to Title IV of ERISA by a Multiemployer Plan requiring
               aggregate annual payments exceeding $500,000, or any of the following occurs
               with respect to a Guaranteed Pension Plan: (i) an ERISA Reportable Event, or a
               failure to make a required installment or other payment (within the meaning of
                302(f)(1) of ERISA),  provided  that the Administrative Agent
               determines in its reasonable discretion that such event (A) could be expected to
               result in liability of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the PBGC or
               such Guaranteed Pension Plan in an aggregate amount exceeding $500,000 and (B)
               could constitute grounds for the termination of such Guaranteed Pension Plan by
               the PBGC, for the appointment by the appropriate United States District Court of
               a trustee to administer such Guaranteed Pension Plan or for the imposition of a
               Lien in favor of such Guaranteed Pension Plan; or (ii) the appointment by a
               United States District Court of a trustee to administer such Guaranteed Pension
               Plan; or (iii) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate such
               Guaranteed Pension Plan;    

(n)  
               the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall be enjoined, restrained or in any
               way prevented by the order of any Governmental Authority from conducting any
               material part of its business and such order shall continue in effect for more
               than thirty (30) days;    

(o)  
               there shall occur any material damage to, or loss, theft or destruction of, any
               Collateral, whether or not insured, or any strike, lockout, labor dispute,
               embargo, condemnation, act of God or public enemy, or other casualty, which in
               any such case causes, for more than fifteen (15) consecutive days, the cessation
               or substantial curtailment of revenue producing activities at any facility of
               the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries   if such event or circumstance is
               not covered by business interruption insurance and would have a Material Adverse
               Effect;    

(p)  
               there shall occur the loss, suspension or revocation of, or failure to renew,
               any license or permit now held or hereafter acquired by the Borrower or any of
               its Subsidiaries if such loss, suspension, revocation or failure to renew would
               have a Material Adverse Effect;    

(q)  
               the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall be indicted for a state or federal
               crime, or any civil or criminal action shall otherwise have been brought against
               the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, a punishment for which in any such case
               could include the forfeiture of any assets of the Borrower or such Subsidiary
               included in the Borrowing Base or any assets of the Borrower or such Subsidiary
               not included in the Borrowing Base but having a fair market value in excess of
               $500,000; or    

(r)  
               a Change of Control shall occur;    

then,
and in any such event, so long as the same may be continuing, the Administrative Agent
may, and upon the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice in writing to the
Borrower declare all amounts owing with respect to this Credit Agreement, the Revolving
Credit Notes and the other Loan Documents and all Reimbursement Obligations and Swing Line
Loans to be, and they shall thereupon forthwith become, immediately due and payable
without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby
expressly waived by the Borrower;  provided  that in the event of any Event of
Default specified in   13.1(g), 13.1(h) or 13.1(j), all such amounts shall
become immediately due and payable automatically and without any requirement of notice
from the Administrative Agent or any Lender.   

13.2.   Termination
of Commitments .   If any one or more of the Events of Default specified
in  13.1(g),  13.1(h) or  13.1(j) shall occur, any unused portion of the
credit hereunder shall forthwith terminate and each of the Lenders shall be relieved of
all further obligations to make Revolving Credit Loans to the Borrower, the Swing Line
Lender shall be relieved of all further obligations to make Swing Line Loans to the
Borrower and the L/C Issuer shall be relieved of all further obligations to issue, extend
or renew Letters of Credit. If any other Event of Default shall have occurred and be
continuing, the Administrative Agent may and, upon the request of the Required Lenders,
shall, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the unused portion of the credit hereunder,
and upon such notice being given such unused portion of the credit hereunder shall
terminate immediately and each of the Lenders shall be relieved of all further obligations
to make Revolving Credit Loans, the Swing Line Lender shall be relieved of all further
obligations to make Swing Line Loans to the Borrower and the L/C Issuer shall be relieved
of all further obligations to issue, extend or renew Letters of Credit. No termination of
the credit hereunder shall relieve the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of any of the
Obligations.   

13.3.   Remedies .   In
case any one or more of the Events of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, and
whether or not the Lenders shall have accelerated the maturity of the Revolving Credit
Loans pursuant to  13.1, each Lender, if owed any amount with respect to the
Revolving Credit Loans, Swing Line Loans or the Reimbursement Obligations, may, with the
consent of the Required Lenders but not otherwise, proceed to protect and enforce its
rights by suit in equity, action at law or other appropriate proceeding, whether for the
specific performance of any covenant or agreement contained in this Credit Agreement and
the other Loan Documents or any instrument pursuant to which the Obligations to such
Lender are evidenced, including as permitted by applicable law the obtaining of the
 ex   parte  appointment of a receiver, and, if such amount shall have become
due, by declaration or otherwise, proceed to enforce the payment thereof or any other
legal or equitable right of such Lender. No remedy herein conferred upon any Lender or the
Administrative Agent or the holder of any Note or purchaser of any Letter of Credit
Participation is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy and each and every remedy
shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given hereunder or now
or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute or any other provision of law.   

13.4.   Distribution
of Collateral Proceeds .   In the event that, following the occurrence or
during the continuance of any Default or Event of Default, the Administrative Agent or any
Lender, as the case may be, receives any monies in connection with the enforcement of any
the Security Documents, or otherwise with respect to the realization upon any of the
Collateral, such monies shall be distributed for application as follows:   

(a)  
                First , to the payment of, or (as the case may be) the reimbursement of
               the Administrative Agent for or in respect of all reasonable costs, expenses,
               disbursements and losses which shall have been incurred or sustained by the
               Administrative Agent in connection with the collection of such monies by the
               Administrative Agent, for the exercise, protection or enforcement by the
               Administrative Agent of all or any of the rights, remedies, powers and
               privileges of the Administrative Agent under this Credit Agreement or any of the
               other Loan Documents or in respect of the Collateral or in support of any
               provision of adequate indemnity to the Administrative Agent against any taxes or
               liens which by law shall have, or may have, priority over the rights of the
               Administrative Agent to such monies;    

(b)  
                Second , to all other Obligations (other than obligations of the Borrower
               and its Subsidiaries to any of the Lenders or the Administrative Agent with
               respect to any Interest Rate Protection Agreements or Swap Contracts) in such
               order or preference as the Required Lenders may determine;  provided ,
                however , that (i) distributions shall be made (A)  pari 
                passu  among Obligations with respect to the fees owing to the
               Administrative Agent and all other Obligations and (B) with respect to each type
               of Obligation owing to the Lenders, such as interest, principal, fees and
               expenses, among the Lenders  pro   rata , and (ii) the Administrative
               Agent may in its discretion make proper allowance to take into account any
               Obligations not then due and payable;    

(c)  
                Third , to obligations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries to any of the
               Lenders and/or the Administrative Agent with respect to any Interest Rate
               Protection Agreements and any Swap Contracts entered into with any Lender or the
               Administrative Agent;    

(d)  
                Fourth , upon payment and satisfaction in full or other provisions for
               payment in full satisfactory to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent of all
               of the Obligations, to the payment of any obligations required to be paid
               pursuant to  9-608(a)(1)(C) or 9-615(a)(3) of the Uniform Commercial Code
               of the State of New York; and    

(d)  
                Fifth , the excess, if any, shall be returned to the Borrower or to such
               other Persons as are entitled thereto.    

14.   THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT .   

14.1.   Authorization .   

(a)  
               Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its
               behalf as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents. The
               Administrative Agent is authorized to take such action on behalf of each of the
               Lenders and to exercise all such powers as are hereunder and under any of the
               other Loan Documents and any related documents delegated to the Administrative
               Agent, together with such powers as are reasonably incident thereto, including
               the authority, without the necessity of any notice to or further consent of the
               Lenders, from time to time to take any action with respect to any Collateral or
               the Security Documents which may be necessary to perfect, maintain perfected or
               insure the priority of the security interest in and liens upon the Collateral
               granted pursuant to the Security Documents,  provided  that no duties or
               responsibilities not expressly assumed herein or therein shall be implied to
               have been assumed by the Administrative Agent. The provisions of this  14
               are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the Swing
               Line Lender and the L/C Issuer, and neither the Borrower nor any of its
               Subsidiaries shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such
               provisions.    

(b)  
               The relationship between the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders is
               that of an independent contractor. The use of the term   Administrative
               Agent   is for convenience only and is used to describe, as a form of
               convention, the independent contractual relationship between the Administrative
               Agent and each of the Lenders. Nothing contained in this Credit Agreement nor
               the other Loan Documents shall be construed to create an agency, trust or other
               fiduciary relationship between the Administrative Agent and any of the
               Lenders .     

(c)  
               As an independent contractor empowered by the Lenders to exercise certain rights
               and perform certain duties and responsibilities hereunder and under the other
               Loan Documents, the Administrative Agent is nevertheless a
                 representative   of the Lenders, as that term is defined in
               Article 1 of the Uniform Commercial Code, for purposes of actions for the
               benefit of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent with respect to all
               collateral security and guaranties contemplated by the Loan Documents. Such
               actions include the designation of the Administrative Agent as
                 secured   party  ,   mortgagee   or the
               like on all financing statements and other documents and instruments, whether
               recorded or otherwise, relating to the attachment, perfection, priority or
               enforcement of any security interests, mortgages or deeds of trust in collateral
               security intended to secure the payment or performance of any of the
               Obligations, all for the benefit of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent.    

(d)  
               The L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of
               Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and the L/C Issuer
               shall have all of the benefits and immunities (i) provided to the
               Administrative Agent in this  14 with respect to any acts taken or
               omissions suffered by the L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued
               by it or proposed to be issued by it and the applications and agreements for
               letters of credit pertaining to the L/C Issuer as fully as if the term
                Administrative Agent  as used in this  14 included the L/C
               Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions (and including any affiliates of
               the L/C Issuer and the officers, directors, employees, agents and
               attorneys-in-fact of the L/C Issuer and any affiliates), and (ii) as
               additionally provided herein with respect to the L/C Issuer.    

14.2.   Employees
and Administrative Agents .   The Administrative Agent may exercise its
powers and execute its duties by or through employees or sub-agents and shall be entitled
to take, and to rely on, advice of counsel concerning all matters pertaining to its rights
and duties under this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents. The Administrative
Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights
and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The Administrative Agent may
utilize the services of such Persons as the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion
may reasonably determine, and all reasonable fees and expenses of any such Persons shall
be paid by the Borrower. The exculpatory provisions of this  14 shall apply to any
such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such
sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the
syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as
Administrative Agent.   

14.3.   No
Liability .   The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or
obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents.
Neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its shareholders, directors, officers or
employees nor any other Person assisting them in their duties nor any agent or employee
thereof, shall be liable for any waiver, consent or approval given or any action taken, or
omitted to be taken, in good faith by it or them hereunder or under any of the other Loan
Documents, or in connection herewith or therewith, or be responsible for the consequences
of any oversight or error of judgment whatsoever, except that the Administrative Agent or
such other Person, as the case may be, may be liable for losses due to its willful
misconduct or gross negligence. The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely, and
shall be fully protected in relying, upon any writing, communication, signature,
resolution, representation, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telegram,
facsimile, telex, electronic mail message, statement or other document or conversation
believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the
proper Person or Persons, and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including
counsel to the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by the
Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall be fully justified in failing or
refusing to take any action under any Loan Document unless it shall first receive such
advice or concurrence of the Required Lenders as it deems appropriate and, if it so
requests, it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Lenders against any and
all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to
take any such action;  provided  that the Administrative Agent shall not be required
to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the
Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable
law. The Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in
refraining from acting, under this Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document in
accordance with a request or consent of the Required Lenders (or such greater number of
Lenders as may be expressly required hereby in any instance) and such request and any
action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Lenders.
Except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, the Administrative
Agent shall have no duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose,
any information relating to any of the Borrowers or any of their respective Affiliates
that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or
any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to
have knowledge of any Default or Event of Default unless and until notice describing such
Default or Event of Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower, a
Lender, the Swing Line Lender or the L/C Issuer. The Administrative Agent also may rely
upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made
by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In
determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Revolving Credit
Loan, Swing Line Loan or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be
fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Swing Line Lender or the L/C Issuer, the
Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender, the
Swing Line Lender or the L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received
notice to the contrary from such Lender, the Swing Line Lender or the L/C Issuer prior to
the making of such Revolving Credit Loan, Swing Line Loan or the issuance of such Letter
of Credit. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for
the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be
liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such
counsel, accountants or experts.   

14.4.   No Representations .   

14.4.1.   General .   The
Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for the execution or validity or
enforceability of this Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Notes, the Letters of
Credit, any of the other Loan Documents or any instrument at any time constituting, or
intended to constitute, collateral security for the Revolving Credit Notes, or for the
value of any such collateral security or for the validity, enforceability or
collectability of any such amounts owing with respect to the Revolving Credit Notes, or
for any recitals or statements, warranties or representations made herein or in any of the
other Loan Documents or in any certificate or instrument hereafter furnished to it by or
on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or be bound to ascertain or inquire
as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, conditions, covenants or
agreements herein or in any instrument at any time constituting, or intended to
constitute, collateral security for the Revolving Credit Notes or to inspect any of the
properties, books or records of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries. The
Administrative Agent shall not be bound to ascertain whether any notice, consent, waiver
or request delivered to it by the Borrower or any holder of any of the Revolving Credit
Notes shall have been duly authorized or is true, accurate and complete. The
Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire
into the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or
conditions set forth herein or in any other Loan Document or the occurrence of any Default
or Event of Default. The Administrative Agent has not made nor does it now make any
representations or warranties, express or implied, nor does it assume any liability to the
Lenders, with respect to the credit worthiness or financial conditions of the Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries.  

14.4.2.   Non-Reliance
on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders .   Each Lender acknowledges
that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other
Lender, and based upon such information and documents as it has deemed appropriate, made
its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Credit Agreement. Each Lender, the
Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer also acknowledges that it will, independently and
without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related
Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem
appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or
based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any
document furnished hereunder or thereunder. The Administrative Agent shall not be
responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into the satisfaction of any
condition set forth in   11 and 12 or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm
receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.  

14.5.   Payments .   

14.5.1.   Payments
to Administrative Agent .   A payment by the Borrower to the
Administrative Agent hereunder or any of the other Loan Documents for the account of any
Lender shall constitute a payment to such Lender. The Administrative Agent agrees promptly
to distribute to each Lender such Lender s  pro   rata  share of payments
received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders except as otherwise
expressly provided herein or in any of the other Loan Documents.  

14.5.2.   Distribution
by Administrative Agent .   If in the opinion of the Administrative Agent
the distribution of any amount received by it in such capacity hereunder, under the
Revolving Credit Notes or under any of the other Loan Documents might involve it in
liability, it may refrain from making distribution until its right to make distribution
shall have been adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction. If a court of competent
jurisdiction shall adjudge that any amount received and distributed by the Administrative
Agent is to be repaid, each Person to whom any such distribution shall have been made
shall either repay to the Administrative Agent its proportionate share of the amount so
adjudged to be repaid or shall pay over the same in such manner and to such Persons as
shall be determined by such court.  

14.5.3.   Delinquent
Lenders .   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, any Lender that fails (a) to make
available to the Administrative Agent its  pro   rata  share of any Revolving
Credit Loan or to purchase any Letter of Credit Participation or to purchase
participations in Swing Line Loans required to be funded by it hereunder or (b) to comply
with the provisions of  16.1 with respect to making dispositions and arrangements
with the other Lenders, where such Lender s share of any payment received, whether by
setoff or otherwise, is in excess of its  pro   rata  share of such payments due
and payable to all of the Lenders, in each case as, when and to the full extent required
by the provisions of this Credit Agreement shall be deemed delinquent (a
  Delinquent   Lender  ) and shall be deemed a Delinquent Lender until
such time as such delinquency is satisfied. A Delinquent Lender shall be deemed to have
assigned any and all payments due to it from the Borrower, whether on account of
outstanding Revolving Credit Loans, participations in Swing Line Loans, Unpaid
Reimbursement Obligations, interest, fees or otherwise, to the remaining nondelinquent
Lenders for application to, and reduction of, their respective  pro   rata 
shares of all outstanding Revolving Credit Loans and Unpaid Reimbursement Obligations. The
Delinquent Lender hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to distribute such payments
to the nondelinquent Lenders in proportion to their respective  pro   rata 
shares of all outstanding Revolving Credit Loans, Unpaid Reimbursement Obligations and
participations in Swing Line Loans. A Delinquent Lender shall be deemed to have satisfied
in full a delinquency when and if, as a result of application of the assigned payments to
all outstanding Revolving Credit Loans, Unpaid Reimbursement Obligations and
participations in Swing Line Loans of the nondelinquent Lenders, the Lenders 
respective  pro   rata  shares of all outstanding Revolving Credit Loans, Unpaid
Reimbursement Obligations and participations in Swing Line Loans have returned to those in
effect immediately prior to such delinquency and without giving effect to the nonpayment
causing such delinquency.  

14.5.4.   Replacement
of Lender .   If any Lender (a) requests compensation under
  5.6 or 5.7, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any
Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to  5.6,
or (b) is a Delinquent Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon
notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and
delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained
in, and consents required by,  15), all of its interests, rights and obligations
under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such
obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment),
 provided  that:  

(a)  
               the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee
               specified in  15.1.2;    

(b)  
               such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding
               principal of its Revolving Credit Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest
               thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under
               the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under  5.9) from the
               assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and
               fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);    

(c)  
               in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under
                 5.6 or 5.7 or payments required to be made pursuant to  5.6,
               such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments
               thereafter; and    

(d)  
               such assignment does not conflict with applicable laws.    

A
Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto,
as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the
Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.  

14.6.   Holders
of Revolving Credit Notes .   The Administrative Agent may deem and treat
the payee of any Revolving Credit Notes, any particpant in a Swing Line Loan or the
purchaser of any Letter of Credit Participation as the absolute owner or purchaser thereof
for all purposes hereof until it shall have been furnished in writing with a different
name by such payee or by a subsequent holder, assignee or transferee.   

14.7.   Indemnity .   To
the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required
hereunder (including under   16.2 and 16.3 hereof) to be paid by it to the
Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender or
any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the
Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender or
such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender s Commitment Percentage
(determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment
is sought) of such unpaid amount,  provided  that the unreimbursed expense or
indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was
incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), or the
Swing Line Lender in its capacity as such, or the L/C Issuer in its capacity as such, or
against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or
any such sub-agent) or the Swing Line Lender or L/C Issuer in connection with such
capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this  14.7 are subject to the
provisions of  2.8.3.   

14.8.   Administrative
Agent as Lender, etc .   In its individual capacity, Bank of America shall
have the same obligations and the same rights, powers and privileges in respect to its
Commitment and the Revolving Credit Loans made by it, and as the holder of any of the
Revolving Credit Notes, as the purchaser of participations in Swing Line Loans and as the
purchaser of any Letter of Credit Participations, as it would have were it not also the
Administrative Agent. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money
to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally
engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate
thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty
to account therefor to the Lenders. Neither the Syndication Agent nor the Co-Agent shall
have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under the Credit
Agreement in such capacity, other than those applicable to all Lenders as Lenders. The
Arranger shall not have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty
under the Credit Agreement in such capacity.   

14.9.   Resignation .   The
Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the
Swing Line Lender, the L/C Issuer and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of
resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower
and, so long as no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, subject to
the reasonable acceptance of the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank
with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in
the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required
Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring
Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative
Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer, appoint a
successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above (including the
reasonable acceptance of the Borrower);  provided  that if the Administrative Agent
shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such
appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with
such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its
duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (except that in the
case of any collateral security held by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders,
the Swing Line Lender or the L/C Issuer under any of the Loan Documents, the retiring
Administrative Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a
successor Administrative Agent is appointed) and (2) all payments, communications and
determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall
instead be made by or to each Lender, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer directly,
until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as
provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor s appointment
as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with
all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired)
Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all
of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already
discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower
to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor
unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring
Administrative Agent s resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the
provisions of this  14 and   16.2 and 16.3 shall continue in effect for the
benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related
Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the
retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.   

Any
resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also
constitute its resignation as L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender. Upon the acceptance of a
successor s appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor shall
succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the
retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, (b) the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line
Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder
or under the other Loan Documents, and (c) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of
credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such
succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring L/C Issuer to
effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters
of Credit.   

14.10.   Notification
of Defaults and Events of Default .   Each Lender hereby agrees that, upon
learning of the existence of a Default or an Event of Default, it shall promptly notify
the Administrative Agent thereof. The Administrative Agent hereby agrees that upon receipt
of any notice under this  14.10 it shall promptly notify the other Lenders of the
existence of such Default or Event of Default.   

14.11.   Duties
in the Case of Enforcement .   In case one of more Events of Default have
occurred and shall be continuing, and whether or not acceleration of the Obligations shall
have occurred, the Administrative Agent shall, if (a) so requested by the Required Lenders
and (b) the Lenders have provided to the Administrative Agent such additional indemnities
and assurances against expenses and liabilities as the Administrative Agent may reasonably
request, proceed to enforce the provisions of the Security Documents authorizing the sale
or other disposition of all or any part of the Collateral and exercise all or any such
other legal and equitable and other rights or remedies as it may have in respect of such
Collateral. The Required Lenders may direct the Administrative Agent in writing as to the
method and the extent of any such sale or other disposition, the Lenders hereby agreeing
to indemnify and hold the Administrative Agent harmless from all liabilities incurred in
respect of all actions taken or omitted in accordance with such directions,
 provided  that the Administrative Agent need not comply with any such direction to
the extent that the Administrative Agent reasonably believes the Administrative
Agent s compliance with such direction to be unlawful or commercially unreasonable in
any applicable jurisdiction.   

14.12.   Administrative
Agent May File Proofs of Claim .   In case of the pendency of any
receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement,
adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to any the Borrower or any
Guarantor, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any
Revolving Credit Loan, Swing Line Loan or Reimbursement Obligation shall then be due and
payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the
Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and
empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:   

(a)  
               to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest
               owing and unpaid in respect of the Revolving Credit Loans, Swing Line Loans or
               Reimbursement Obligations and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid
               and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to
               have the claims of the Lenders, the Swing Line Lender, the L/C Issuer and the
               Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation,
               expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the Swing Line Lender, the
               L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel
               and all other amounts due the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative
               Agent hereunder) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and    

(b)  
               to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on
               any such claims and to distribute the same;    

and
any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar
official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and the L/C
Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the
Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders
and the L/C Issuer, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable
compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its
agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent hereunder
(including under   5.1, 16.2 and 16.3).   

Nothing
contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or
consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender, the Swing Line Lender or the L/C
Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the
Obligations or the rights of any Lender or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote
in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.   

14.13.   Collateral
and Guaranty Matters .   The Lenders, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C
Issuer irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, at its option and in its
discretion,   

(a)  
               to release any Lien on any property granted to or held by the Administrative
               Agent under any Loan Document (i) upon termination of the Total Commitments and
               payment in full of all Obligations (other than contingent indemnification
               obligations) and the expiration or termination of all Letters of Credit, (ii)
               that is sold or to be sold as part of or in connection with any sale permitted
               hereunder or under any other Loan Document, or (iii) subject to  16.12, if
               approved, authorized or ratified in writing by the Required Lenders;    

(b)  
               to subordinate any Lien on any property granted to or held by the Administrative
               Agent under any Loan Document to the holder of any Lien on such property that is
               permitted by  9.2.1; and    

(c)  
               to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty if such Person
               ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder.    

Upon
request by the Administrative Agent at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in
writing the Administrative Agent s authority to release or subordinate its interest
in particular types or items of property, or to release any Guarantor from its obligations
under the Guaranty pursuant to this  14.13.   

15.   ASSIGNMENT AND PARTICIPATION .   

15.1.   Conditions to Assignment .   

15.1.1.   Successors
and Assignment Generally.    The provisions of this Credit Agreement shall
be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective
successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that neither the Borrower nor any
Guarantor may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder
without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no
Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except
(i) to an Eligible Assignee in accordance with the provisions of  15.1.2, (ii) by way
of participation in accordance with the provisions of  15.1.4, or (iii) by way of
pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of  15.1.5
(and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and
void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon
any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns
permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in  15.1.4 and, to the extent
expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent,
the Swing Line Lender, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right,
remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.  

15.1.2.   Assignments
by Lenders.    Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more Eligible
Assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including
all or a portion of its Commitment and the Revolving Credit Loans (including for purposes
of this  15.1.2, participations in Letters of Credit and in Swing Line Loans) at the
time owing to it);  provided  that  

(a)  
               except in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the
               assigning Lender s Commitment and the Revolving Credit Loans at the time
               owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a
               Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to a Lender, the aggregate amount of the
               Commitment (which for this purpose includes Revolving Credit Loans outstanding
               thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal
               outstanding balance of the Revolving Credit Loans of the assigning Lender
               subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and
               Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative
               Agent or, if  Trade Date  is specified in the Assignment and
               Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 
                unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default
               has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such
               consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed);  provided ,
                however , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and
               concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible
               Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be
               treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum
               amount has been met;    

(b)  
               each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part
               of all the assigning Lender s rights and obligations under this Credit
               Agreement with respect to the Revolving Credit Loans, participations in Swing
               Line Loans and Letters of Credit or the Commitment assigned, except that this
               clause (b) shall not apply to rights in respect of Swing Line Loans of the Swing
               Line Lender;    

(c)  
               any assignment of a Commitment must be approved by the Administrative Agent, the
               L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender unless the Person that is the proposed
               assignee is itself a Lender (whether or not the proposed assignee would
               otherwise qualify as an Eligible Assignee); and    

(d)  
               the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative
               Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation
               fee in the amount, if any, required as set forth in  Schedule 15.1.2 , and
               the Eligible Assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the
               Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.    

Subject
to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to  15.1.3,
from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the
Eligible Assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Credit Agreement and, to the extent
of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and
obligations of a Lender under this Credit Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder
shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be
released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and
Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender s rights and obligations under this
Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled
to the benefits of   5.6, 5.7, 5.9, 16.2 and 16.3 with respect to facts and
circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the
Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any
assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does
not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale
by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with
 15.1.4. The Administrative Agent shall use commercially reasonable efforts to
provide the Borrower with prompt notice of any assignment hereunder.  

15.1.3.   Register.    The
Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall
maintain at the Administrative Agent s Office a copy of each Assignment and
Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses
of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Revolving Credit
Loans, the Swing Line Loan and participations in Letters of Credit owing to, each Lender
pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the   Register  ). The
entries in the Register shall be conclusive, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the
Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the
Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this
Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for
inspection by each of the Borrower, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer at any
reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. In addition, at any
time that a request for a consent for a material or substantive change to the Loan
Documents is pending, any Lender may request and receive from the Administrative Agent a
copy of the Register.  

15.1.4.   Participations.    Any
Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the
Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or
the Borrower or any of the Borrower s Affiliates or Subsidiaries or any competitor of
the Borrower ( provided ,  however , that no financial institution or Approved
Fund shall be deemed to be a competitor of the Borrower)) (each, a
  Participant  ) in all or a portion of such Lender s rights and/or
obligations under this Credit Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment
and/or the Revolving Loans (including such Lender s participations in Letters of
Credit and/or Swing Line Loans) owing to it);  provided  that (i) such
Lender s obligations under this Credit Agreement shall remain unchanged,
(ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the
performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the
Lenders, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer shall continue to deal solely and
directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender s rights and obligations
under this Agreement.  

Any
agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall
provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to
approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement;
 provided  that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not,
without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other
modification described in the first proviso to  16.12(a) that affects such
Participant. Subject to  15.1.5, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be
entitled to the benefits of   5.6, 5.7 and 5.9,   to the same extent as if
it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to  15.1.2. To
the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of
 16.1   as though it were a Lender,  provided  such Participant agrees to
be subject to  16.1 as though it were a Lender.  

15.1.5.   Certain
Pledges.    Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security
interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Credit Agreement (including under
its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment
to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank;  provided  that no such pledge or
assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute
any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.  

15.1.6.   Electronic
Execution of Assignments.    The words  execution, 
 signed,   signature,  and words of like import in any Assignment and
Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in
electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or
enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping
system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law,
including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New
York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on
the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.  

15.1.7.   Resignation
as L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender after Assignment.    Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time Bank of America assigns all of
its Commitment and Revolving Credit Loans pursuant to  15.1.2 above, Bank of America
may, (i) upon 30 days  notice to the Borrower and the Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer
and/or (ii) upon 30 days  notice to the Borrower, resign as Swing Line Lender. In the
event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, the Borrower shall be
entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender
hereunder;  provided ,  however , that no failure by the Borrower to appoint any
such successor shall affect the resignation of Bank of America as L/C Issuer or Swing Line
Lender, as the case may be. If Bank of America resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all
the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all
Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer
and all Letters of Credit and Reimbursement Obligations with respect thereto (including
the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Loans or fund risk participations in
Unpaid Reimbursement Obligations pursuant to  4). If Bank of America resigns as Swing
Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for
hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective
date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate
Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to  2.10.
Upon the appointment of a successor L/C Issuer and/or Swing Line Lender, (a) such
successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges
and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, and (b)
the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of
Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements
satisfactory to Bank of America to effectively assume the obligations of Bank of America
with respect to such Letters of Credit.  

16.   PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATIONS .   

16.1.   Setoff .   The
Borrower hereby grants to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders a continuing
lien, security interest and right of setoff as security for all liabilities and
obligations to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, whether now existing or hereafter
arising, upon and against all deposits, credits, collateral and property, now or hereafter
in the possession, custody, safekeeping or control of the Administrative Agent or such
Lender or any Lender Affiliate and their successors and assigns or in transit to any of
them. Regardless of the adequacy of any collateral, if any Event of Default shall have
occurred, any deposits or other sums credited by or due from any of the Lenders or Lender
Affiliates to the Borrower and any securities or other property of the Borrower in the
possession of such Lender may be applied to or set off by such Lender against the payment
of Obligations and any and all other liabilities, direct, or indirect, absolute or
contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising, of the Borrower to
such Lender. ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO REQUIRE ANY LENDER TO EXERCISE ITS RIGHTS OR REMEDIES
WITH RESPECT TO ANY OTHER COLLATERAL WHICH SECURES THE OBLIGATIONS, PRIOR TO EXERCISING
ITS RIGHT OF SETOFF WITH RESPECT TO SUCH DEPOSITS, CREDITS OR OTHER PROPERTY OF THE
BORROWER ARE HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVED. Each of the Lenders
agree with each other Lender that (a) if an amount to be set off is to be applied to
Indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender, other than Indebtedness evidenced by the
Revolving Credit Notes held by such Lender or constituting Reimbursement Obligations owed
to such Lender or participations in Swing Line Loans held by such Lender, such amount
shall be applied ratably to such other Indebtedness and to the Indebtedness evidenced by
all such Revolving Credit Notes held by such Lender or constituting Reimbursement
Obligations owed to such Lender or participations in Swing Line Loans held by such Lender,
and (b) if such Lender shall receive from the Borrower, whether by voluntary payment,
exercise of the right of setoff, counterclaim, cross action, enforcement of the claim
evidenced by the Revolving Credit Notes held by, or constituting Reimbursement Obligations
owed to or participations in Swing Line Loans held by, such Lender by proceedings against
the Borrower at law or in equity or by proof thereof in bankruptcy, reorganization,
liquidation, receivership or similar proceedings, or otherwise, and shall retain and apply
to the payment of the Revolving Credit Note or Revolving Credit Notes held by, or
Reimbursement Obligations owed to, or participations in Swing Line Loans held by, such
Lender any amount in excess of its ratable portion of the payments received by all of the
Lenders with respect to the Revolving Credit Notes held by, and Reimbursement Obligations
owed to, or participations in Swing Line Loans held by, all of the Lenders, such Lender
will make such disposition and arrangements with the other Lenders with respect to such
excess, either by way of distribution,  pro   tanto  assignment of claims,
subrogation or otherwise as shall result in each Lender receiving in respect of the
Revolving Credit Notes held by it or Reimbursement Obligations owed it, or participations
in Swing Line Loans held by it, its proportionate payment as contemplated by this Credit
Agreement;  provided  that if all or any part of such excess payment is thereafter
recovered from such Lender, such disposition and arrangements shall be rescinded and the
amount restored to the extent of such recovery, but without interest.   

16.2.   Expenses    .  The
Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and
disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication
of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution,
delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any
amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not
the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all
reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the L/C Issuer in connection with the
issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for
payment thereunder and (iii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
Administrative Agent, any Lender, the Swing Line Lender or the L/C Issuer (including the
fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender,
the Swing Line Lender or the L/C Issuer), in connection with the enforcement or protection
of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents,
including its rights under this  16.2, or (B) in connection with the Revolving
Credit Loans or Swing Line Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all
such reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or
negotiations in respect of such Revolving Credit Loans or Swing Line Loans or Letters of
Credit. All amounts due under this  16.2 shall be payable not later than ten Business
Days after demand therefor. The agreements in this  16.2 shall survive the
resignation of the Administrative Agent, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer, the
replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Total Commitment and the repayment,
satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.   

16.3.   Indemnification    .  The
Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each
Lender, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer, and each Related Party of any of the
foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an   Indemnitee  )
against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages,
liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any
counsel for any Indemnitee), and shall indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnitee from
all fees and time charges and disbursements for attorneys who may be employees of any
Indemnitee, incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third
party or by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries arising out of, in connection with, or
as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Credit Agreement, any other Loan
Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by
the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the
Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the
administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Revolving
Credit Loan, Swing Line Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the
proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment
under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not
strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged
presence or release of Hazardous Substances on or from any property owned or operated by
the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any environmental liability related in any way
to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim,
litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on
contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto;
 provided  that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the
extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to
have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or
(y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries against an
Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee s obligations hereunder or
under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower or such Subsidiary has obtained a final and
nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction.   

To
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby
waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special,
indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages)
arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Credit Agreement, any other
Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions
contemplated hereby or thereby, any Revolving Credit Loan, Swing Line Loan or Letter of
Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in paragraph above
shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any
information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or
other information transmission systems in connection with this Credit Agreement or the
other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.   

All
amounts due under this  16.3 shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after
demand therefor. The agreements in this  16.3 shall survive the resignation of the
Administrative Agent, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer, the replacement of any
Lender, the termination of the Total Commitment and the repayment, satisfaction or
discharge of all the other Obligations.   

16.4.   Treatment of Certain Confidential Information .   

Each
of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer agrees
to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that
Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates 
respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives
(it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of
the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information
confidential in accordance with the terms hereof), (b) to the extent requested by any
regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any
self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners);
 provided  that the Administrative Agent shall use commercially reasonable efforts to
provide notice to the Borrower of any such request, (c) to the extent required by
applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process;
 provided  that the Administrative Agent shall use commercially reasonable efforts to
provide notice to the Borrower upon becoming aware of such requirement, (d) to any other
party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any
other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other
Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an
agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i)
any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any
of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective
counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the
Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent
such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this
Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the Swing Line
Lender, the L/C Issuer or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis
from a source other than the Borrower and not as a result of any violation of any
confidentiality obligation to the Borrower.  

For
purposes of this Section,   Information   means all information received
from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of
their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the
Administrative Agent, any Lender, the Swing Line Lender or the L/C Issuer on a
nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary,
 provided  that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any
Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of
delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of
Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its
obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the
confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential
information.  

Each
of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer
acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information
concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed
compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will
handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable law, including
Federal and state securities laws.  

16.5.   Survival
of Covenants, Etc .   All covenants, agreements, representations and
warranties made herein, in the Revolving Credit Notes, in any of the other Loan Documents
or in any documents or other papers delivered by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of
its Subsidiaries pursuant hereto shall be deemed to have been relied upon by the Lenders
and the Administrative Agent, notwithstanding any investigation heretofore or hereafter
made by any of them, and shall survive the making by the Lenders of any of the Revolving
Credit Loans, the Swing Line Loans and the issuance, extension or renewal of any Letters
of Credit, as herein contemplated, and shall continue in full force and effect so long as
any Letter of Credit or any amount due under this Credit Agreement or the Revolving Credit
Notes or any of the other Loan Documents remains outstanding or any Lender has any
obligation to make any Revolving Credit Loans or the Administrative Agent has any
obligation to issue, extend or renew any Letter of Credit, and for such further time as
may be otherwise expressly specified in this Credit Agreement. All statements contained in
any certificate or other paper delivered to any Lender or the Administrative Agent at any
time by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant hereto or in
connection with the transactions contemplated hereby shall constitute representations and
warranties by the Borrower or such Subsidiary hereunder.   

16.6.   Notices .   

16.6.1.     Notices
Generally .   Except in the case of notices and other communications
expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in  16.6.2
below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and
shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered
mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly
permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone
number, as follows:  

(i)  
               if to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line
               Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone
               number specified for such Person on  Schedule 16.6.1 ; and    

(ii)  
               if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail
               address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.    

Notices
sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail,
shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be
deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business
hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on
the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic
communications to the extent provided in  16.6.2, shall be effective as provided in
 16.6.2.  

16.6.2.     Electronic
Communications .   Notices and other communications to the Lenders, the
Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic
communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures
approved by the Administrative Agent,  provided  that the foregoing shall not apply
to notices to any Lender, the Swing Line Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to
  2, 3 and 4 if such Lender, the Swing Line Lender or the L/C Issuer, as
applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving
notices under such Section by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the
Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it
hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it,
 provided  that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or
communications.  

Unless
the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications
sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender s receipt of an
acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the  return receipt
requested  function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement),
 provided  that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal
business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been
sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and
(ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be
deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as
described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or
communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.  

16.6.3.     The
Platform .   THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED  AS IS  AND  AS
AVAILABLE.  THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR
COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY
DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF
ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM
VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER
MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its
Related Parties (collectively, the   Agent Parties  ) have any liability to
the Borrower, any Lender, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender or any other Person for
losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or
otherwise) arising out of the Borrower s or the Administrative Agent s
transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such
losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross
negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party;  provided ,  however ,
that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, the
Swing Line Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental,
consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).  

16.6.4.     Changes
of Address .   Each of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C
Issuer, and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number
for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each
other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other
communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C
Issuer and the Swing Line Lender. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the
Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on
record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and
electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii)
accurate wire instructions for such Lender.  

16.6.5.     Reliance
by Administrative Agent and the Lenders .   The Administrative Agent, the
L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon
any notices (including telephonic Loan Requests and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly
given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner
specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of
notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied
from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the
L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them
from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such
Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower. All telephonic
notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be
recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to
such recording.  

16.7.   Governing
Law .   THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT AND, EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SPECIFICALLY
PROVIDED THEREIN, EACH OF THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS ARE CONTRACTS UNDER THE LAWS OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK AND SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED
BY THE LAWS OF SAID STATE (EXCLUDING THE LAWS APPLICABLE TO CONFLICTS OR CHOICE OF LAW
(OTHER THAN THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW  5-1401)). EACH PARTY HERETO AGREES
THAT ANY SUIT FOR THE ENFORCEMENT OF THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE OTHER LOAN
DOCUMENTS MAY BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK OR ANY FEDERAL COURT
SITTING THEREIN AND CONSENTS TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF SUCH COURT AND SERVICE OF
PROCESS IN ANY SUCH SUIT BEING MADE UPON THE BORROWER BY MAIL AT THE ADDRESS SPECIFIED IN
 16.6. THE BORROWER HEREBY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO
THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH SUIT OR ANY SUCH COURT OR THAT SUCH SUIT IS BROUGHT IN AN
INCONVENIENT COURT.   

16.8.   Headings .   The
captions in this Credit Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not
define or limit the provisions hereof.   

16.9.   Counterparts .   This
Credit Agreement and any amendment hereof may be executed in several counterparts and by
each party on a separate counterpart, each of which when executed and delivered shall be
an original, and all of which together shall constitute one instrument. In proving this
Credit Agreement it shall not be necessary to produce or account for more than one such
counterpart signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought. Delivery by facsimile
by any of the parties hereto of an executed counterpart hereof or of any amendment or
waiver hereto shall be as effective as an original executed counterpart hereof or of such
amendment or waiver and shall be considered a representation that an original executed
counterpart hereof or such amendment or waiver, as the case may be, will be delivered.   

             16.10.  
 Entire Agreement, Etc .   The Loan Documents and any
other documents executed in connection herewith or therewith express the entire
understanding of the parties with respect to the transactions contemplated
hereby. Neither this Credit Agreement nor any term hereof may be changed,
waived, discharged or terminated, except as provided in  16.12.   

16.11.   Waiver
of Jury Trial .   EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY WAIVES ITS RIGHT TO A
JURY TRIAL WITH RESPECT TO ANY ACTION OR CLAIM ARISING OUT OF ANY DISPUTE IN CONNECTION
WITH THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT, THE NOTES OR ANY OF THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS, ANY RIGHTS OR
OBLIGATIONS HEREUNDER OR THEREUNDER OR THE PERFORMANCE OF SUCH RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OR
ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALINGS, STATEMENTS (WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN) OR
ACTIONS OF ANY PARTY, INCLUDING ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALINGS, STATEMENTS OR
ACTIONS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER RELATING TO THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE
LOANS OR ENFORCEMENT OF THE LOAN DOCUMENTS AND AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT SEEK TO CONSOLIDATE
ANY SUCH ACTION WITH ANY OTHER ACTION IN WHICH A JURY TRIAL CANNOT BE OR HAS NOT BEEN
WAIVED. Except as prohibited by law, the Borrower hereby waives any right it may have to
claim or recover in any litigation referred to in the preceding sentence any special,
exemplary, punitive or consequential damages or any damages other than, or in addition to,
actual damages. The Borrower (a) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of
any Lender or the Administrative Agent has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such
Lender or the Administrative Agent would not, in the event of litigation, seek to enforce
the foregoing waivers and (b) acknowledges that the Administrative Agent and the Lenders
have been induced to enter into this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents to which
it is a party   and the Subordination Documents to which it is a party by, among
other things, the waivers and certifications contained herein.   

16.12.   Consents,
Amendments, Waivers, Etc .   Any consent or approval required or permitted
by this Credit Agreement to be given by the Lenders may be given, and any term of this
Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents or any other instrument related hereto or
mentioned herein may be amended, and the performance or observance by the Borrower or any
of its Subsidiaries of any terms of this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents or
such other instrument or the continuance of any Default or Event of Default may be waived
(either generally or in a particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively)
with, but only with, the written consent of the Borrower and the written consent of the
Required Lenders and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no amendment, modification or waiver shall:   

(a)  
without the written consent of the Borrower and each Lender directly affected
thereby: 

(i)  
               reduce or forgive the principal amount of any Revolving Credit Loans, Swing Line
               Loans or Reimbursement Obligations, or reduce the rate of interest on the
               Revolving Credit Notes or the amount of the Commitment Fee or Letter of Credit
               Fees (other than interest accruing pursuant to  5.11.2 following the
               effective date of any waiver by the Required Lenders of the Default or Event of
               Default relating thereto);    

(ii)  
               increase the amount of such Lender s Commitment or extend the expiration
               date of such Lender s Commitment or reinstate any Commitment that has been
               terminated;    

(iii)  
               postpone or extend the Revolving Credit Loan Maturity Date or any other
               regularly scheduled dates for payments of principal of, or interest on, the
               Revolving Credit Loans, the Swing Line Loans or Reimbursement Obligations or any
               fees or other amounts payable to such Lender (it being understood that (A) a
               waiver of the application of the default rate of interest pursuant to
                5.11.2, and       (B) any vote to rescind any acceleration
               made pursuant to  13.1 of amounts owing with respect to the Revolving
               Credit Loans and other Obligations   shall require only the approval of the
               Required Lenders); and    

(iv)  
               other than pursuant to a transaction permitted by the terms of this Credit
               Agreement, release all or substantially all of the Collateral (excluding, if the
               Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower becomes a debtor under the federal
               Bankruptcy Code, the release of  cash collateral , as defined in
               Section 363(a) of the federal Bankruptcy Code pursuant to a cash collateral
               stipulation with the debtor approved by the Required Lenders) or release all or
               substantially all of the Guarantors from their guaranty obligations under the
               Guaranty;    

(b)  
               without the written consent of all of the Lenders, waive a Default or Event of
               Default under  13.1(a) or  13.1(b), amend or waive this  16.12 or
               the definition of Required Lenders or change   13.4 or 16.1 in a
               manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby;    

(c)  
               (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the
               L/C Issuer in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or
               duties of the L/C Issuer under this Credit Agreement or any Issuer Document
               relating to any Letter of Credit issued or to be issued by it; (ii) no
               amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing
               Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or
               duties of the Swing Line Lender under this Credit Agreement; (iii) no amendment,
               waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative
               Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of
               the Administrative Agent under this Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document;
               and (iv) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder
               waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto;    

(d)  
               without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, waive any
               condition set forth in  11.    

No
waiver shall extend to or affect any obligation not expressly waived or impair any right
consequent thereon. No course of dealing or delay or omission on the part of the
Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right shall operate as a waiver
thereof or otherwise be prejudicial thereto. No notice to or demand upon the Borrower
shall entitle the Borrower to other or further notice or demand in similar or other
circumstances. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Delinquent Lender shall
have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except
that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of
such Lender.   

16.13.   Severability .   The
provisions of this Credit Agreement are severable and if any one clause or provision
hereof shall be held invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part in any jurisdiction,
then such invalidity or unenforceability shall affect only such clause or provision, or
part thereof, in such jurisdiction, and shall not in any manner affect such clause or
provision in any other jurisdiction, or any other clause or provision of this Credit
Agreement in any jurisdiction.   

16.14.   USA
PATRIOT Act Notice .   Each Lender that is subject to the Act
(as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on
behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the
requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into
law October 26, 2001)) (the   Act  ), it is required to obtain,
verify and record information that identifies the Borrower and/or its
Subsidiaries, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower or
its Subsidiaries and other information that will allow such Lender or the
Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries in accordance with the Act.   

17.   ACKNOWLEDGEMENT .   

The
Borrower hereby acknowledges that neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender has any
fiduciary relationship with or fiduciary duty to the Borrower arising out of or in
connection with this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, and that the
relationship between the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, on the one hand, and the
Borrower, on the other hand, in connection herewith and therewith is solely that of
creditor and debtor.   

            [remainder
of page intentionally left blank]   

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF,  the undersigned have duly executed this Credit Agreement as a sealed
instrument as of the date first set forth above.   

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS 
   INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

By:_________________________________ 
       Name: 
       Title: 

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. , as Administrative Agent 

By:_________________________________ 
       Name: 
       Title: 

BANK OF AMERICA,  N.A. , as Lender, Swing Line Lender and L/C
Issuer 

By:_________________________________ 
       Name: 
       Title: 

LASALLE BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION , as a Lender and as
Syndication Agent 

By:_________________________________ 
       Name: 
       Title: 

UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, N.A. , as a Lender and as Co-Agent 

By:_________________________________ 
       Name: 
       Title: 

CALIFORNIA BANK   TRUST , as a Lender 

By:_________________________________ 
       Name: 
       Title: 

COMERICA BANK , as a Lender 

By:_________________________________ 
       Name: 
       Title: 

NATEXIS BANQUES POPULAIRES , as a Lender 

By:_________________________________ 
       Name: 
       Title: 

ING BANK NV , as a Lender 

By:_________________________________ 
       Name: 
       Title: 

_______________________, as a Lender 

By:_________________________________ 
       Name: 
       Title: 

FLEET  NATIONAL  BANK , as L/C Issuer of Existing Letters of
Credit 

By:_________________________________ 
       Name: 
       Title: 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 9
 interpool-ex1048_030906.htm
 EX-10.48

Ex-10.48  

AMENDMENT NO. 1   

to that certain   

   REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT   

This 
AMENDMENT NO. 1  (this   Amendment  ), dated as of February [__], 2006,
is by and among  CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. , a Nevada corporation
(the   Borrower  ), the guarantors listed on the signature pages hereto
(each a   Guarantor   and collectively, the   Guarantors  ),
 BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. , (  Bank of America  ) and the other
lending institutions from time to time party to the Credit Agreement referred to below
(collectively, the   Lenders  ), Bank of America, as administrative agent
for itself and the other Lenders (in such capacity, the   Administrative 
 Agent  ),  LASALLE BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION , as syndication agent for
itself and the other Lenders (in such capacity, the   Syndication 
 Agent  ) and  UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, N.A.,  as co-agent for itself and
the other Lenders (in such capacity, the   Co-Agent   and together with the
Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agent, the   Agents  ).
Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the respective meanings
provided therefor in the Credit Agreement referred to below.   

WHEREAS, 
the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agents are parties to that certain Revolving Credit
Agreement, dated as of April 28, 2005 (as heretofore amended and in effect on the date
hereof, the   Credit Agreement  ), pursuant to which the Lenders, upon
certain terms and conditions, have agreed to make loans and otherwise extend credit to the
Borrower;   

WHEREAS, 
the Borrower has requested that the Agents and the Lenders amend certain of the terms and
provisions of the Credit Agreement as set forth herein; and   

WHEREAS, 
subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Agents and the Lenders party
hereto have agreed amend the Credit Agreement as hereinafter provided.   

NOW
THEREFORE,  the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:   

1.   
            Amendments to Credit Agreement .  Subject to the satisfaction
          of the conditions precedent set forth in  5 below, the Credit Agreement is
          hereby amended as follows:   

(a) 
               The definition of  Consolidated Total Debt Service  in Section 1.1 of
               the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the parenthetical phrase
                (excluding the Closing Interpool Repayment)  in clause (a) of such
               definition and substituting the parenthetical phrase  (excluding the
               Closing Interpool Repayment and any prepayment of the Interpool Subordinated
               Debt permitted under this Agreement)  in lieu thereof.    

(b) 
               Section 9.8 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the text
                (ii) at the time of such prepayment, the ratio of (x) Senior Funded Debt
               to (y) Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net Worth at such time shall not exceed
               2.50:1.00  in the  proviso  in clause (d) in the second sentence of
               such Section 9.8 and substituting the following language in lieu thereof:
                (ii) at the time of such prepayment, the ratio of (x) Senior Funded Debt
               to (y) Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net Worth at such time shall not exceed
               (A) at any time prior to June 30, 2007, 3.00:1.00 or (B) at any time on or after
               June 30, 2007, 2.50:1.00 .    

(c) 
               Section 10.4 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the following
               sentence appearing at the end of such Section 10.4:    

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower prepays (in whole or in part) the
outstanding amount of Interpool Subordinated Debt (other than the Closing Interpool
Repayment), the Borrower will not permit the ratio of (a) Senior Funded Debt to (b)
Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net Worth, as at any date of determination occurring on or
after the date that such prepayment is made, to exceed 2.50:1.00.    

2.   
            Effectiveness .  Upon the satisfaction of the condition precedent
          set forth in  5 below, the amendments provided for herein shall take effect
          as of the date hereof.   

3.   
            Representations   and   Warranties .  Each of the Borrower
          and the Guarantors, as the case may be, represents and warrants to the Lenders
          and the Agents as follows:   

(a) 
                Representations   and   Warranties   in   Credit 
                Agreement . The representations and warranties of the Borrower contained
               in the Credit Agreement were true and correct in all material respects when
               made, and continue to be true and correct in all material respects on the date
               hereof.    

(b) 
                Authority ,  Etc . The execution and delivery by each of the Borrower
               and the Guarantors of this Amendment and the performance by each of the Borrower
               and the Guarantors of all of its respective agreements and obligations of this
               Amendment and the other documents delivered in connection therewith
               (collectively, the   Amendment   Documents  ), the Credit
               Agreement as amended hereby and the other Loan Documents (i) are within the
               corporate or company authority of the Borrower or such Guarantor, (ii) have been
               duly authorized by all necessary corporate or company proceedings by the
               Borrower and such Guarantor, (iii) do not conflict with or result in any breach
               or contravention of any provision of law, statute, rule or regulation to which
               the Borrower or such Guarantor is subject or any judgment, order, writ,
               injunction, license or permit applicable to the Borrower or such Guarantor, (iv)
               do not conflict with any provision of the Governing Documents of, or any
               agreement or other instrument binding upon, the Borrower or such Guarantor, and
               (v) do not require the approval or consent of, or filing with, any Person other
               than those already obtained.    

(c) 
                Enforceability   of   Obligations . The Amendment Documents, the
               Credit Agreement as amended hereby, and the other Loan Documents constitute the
               legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower or such Guarantor,
               enforceable against the Borrower or such Guarantor in accordance with their
               respective terms.    

(d) 
                No   Default . Immediately after giving effect to this Amendment, no
               Default or Event of Default exists under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan
               Document.    

4.  
 Affirmation of Borrower and Guarantors .   

(a) 
               The Borrower hereby affirms its absolute and unconditional promise to pay to
               each Lender and the Agents the Revolving Credit Loans, the Swing Line Loans, the
               Reimbursement Obligations and all other amounts due under the Revolving Credit
               Notes, the Letters of Credit, the Credit Agreement as amended hereby, and the
               other Loan Documents, at the times and in the amounts provided for therein. The
               Borrower confirms and agrees that (i) the obligations of the Borrower to the
               Lenders and the Agents under the Credit Agreement as amended hereby are secured
               by and entitled to the benefits of the Security Documents and (ii) all
               references to the term  Credit Agreement  in the Security Documents
               and the other Loan Documents shall hereafter refer to the Credit Agreement as
               amended hereby.    

(b) 
               Each of the undersigned Guarantors hereby acknowledges that it has read and is
               aware of the provisions of this Amendment. Each of the Guarantors hereby
               reaffirms its absolute and unconditional guaranty of the Borrower s payment
               and performance of its obligations to the Lenders and the Agents under the
               Credit Agreement as amended hereby. Each of the Guarantors hereby confirms and
               agrees that all references to the term  Credit Agreement  in that
               certain Guaranty, dated as of April 28, 2005, made by each of the Guarantors in
               favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Administrative Agent
               and the Lenders, shall hereafter refer to the Credit Agreement as amended
               hereby.    

5.   
            Conditions   to   Effectiveness .  The amendments provided
          for herein shall take effect as of the date of this Amendment, upon receipt by
          the Administrative Agent of a counterpart signature page to this Amendment, duly
          executed and delivered by each of the Borrower, the Guarantors, the Required
          Lenders   and the Administrative Agent, and in full force and effect.   

6.   
            Miscellaneous   Provisions .  This Amendment shall constitute
          one of the Loan Documents referred to in the Credit Agreement. Except as
          otherwise expressly provided by this Amendment, all of the terms, conditions and
          provisions of the Credit Agreement shall remain the same. It is declared and
          agreed by each of the parties hereto that the Credit Agreement, as amended
          hereby, shall continue in full force and effect, and that this Amendment and the
          Credit Agreement shall be read and construed as one instrument. Nothing
          contained in this Amendment shall be construed to imply a willingness on the
          part of the Lenders or the Agents to grant any similar or other future amendment
          of any of the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement or the other Loan
          Documents or shall in any way prejudice, impair or effect any rights or remedies
          of the Lenders and the Agents under the Credit Agreement or the other Loan
          Documents.  THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED ACCORDING TO AND GOVERNED BY THE
          LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES BE CONSTRUED IN
          ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF SAID STATE (EXCLUDING THE LAWS
          APPLICABLE TO CONFLICTS OR CHOICE OF LAW (OTHER THAN THE NEW YORK GENERAL
          OBLIGATIONS LAW  5-1401)).  This Amendment may be executed in any number
          of counterparts, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one
          instrument. Delivery of an executed signature page of this Amendment by
          facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed
          counterpart thereof. In making proof of this Amendment it shall not be necessary
          to produce or account for more than one counterpart signed by each party hereto
          by and against which enforcement hereof is sought. Headings or captions used in
          this Amendment are for convenience of reference only and shall not define or
          limit the provisions hereof. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay to the
          Administrative Agent on demand all reasonable costs and expenses incurred or
          sustained by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation of this
          Amendment (including reasonable legal fees and disbursements of the
          Administrative Agent s Special Counsel).   

[remainder of this page intentionally left blank]     

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have executed this Amendment as an agreement as of
the date first written above.   

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS 
INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

By:            

Name: M. Nishibori 
       Title: CFO 

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS 
INTERNATIONAL (U.K.), LTD.,  
as Guarantor 

By:            

Name: M. Nishibori 
       Title: Director 

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS 
INTERNATIONAL (MALAYSIA) SDN 
BHD , as Guarantor 

By:            

Name: M. Nishibori 
       Title: Authorized Representative 

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS 
INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION,  
as Guarantor 

By:            

Name: M. Nishibori 
       Title: Director 

SKY CONTAINER TRADING 
LIMITED , as Guarantor 

By:            

Name: M. Nishibori 
       Title: Director 

SKY DOMESTIC CONTAINER 
LEASING LIMITED , as Guarantor 

By:            

Name: M. Nishibori 
       Title: Director 

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. , as 
Administrative Agent 

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. , as Lender, 
Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer 

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

LASALLE BANK NATIONAL 
ASSOCIATION , as a Lender and as 
Syndication Agent 

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, N.A. , 
as a Lender and as Co-Agent 

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

CALIFORNIA BANK   TRUST , as a 
Lender 

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

COMERICA BANK , as a Lender 

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

NATEXIS BANQUES POPULAIRES , as a 
Lender 

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

ING BANK NV , as a Lender 

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

FLEET NATIONAL BANK , as L/C Issuer of 
Existing Letters of Credit 

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 10
 interpool-ex1049_030906.htm
 EX-10.49

Exhibit 10.49 

CREDIT AND SECURITY AGREEMENT    

Dated September 9,
2005,    

by and among    

INTERPOOL, INC.    

and    

TRAC LEASE, INC., 
as the Borrowers,    

the Lenders referred to
herein,    

and    

NATIONAL CITY BANK, 
as Agent    

Table of Contents    

PAGE 

ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS 
   1 

ARTICLE II REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY 
 25 

ARTICLE III LETTER OF CREDIT FACILITY 
 31 

ARTICLE IV GENERAL LOAN PROVISIONS 
 37 

ARTICLE V CLOSING, CONDITIONS OF CLOSING AND BORROWING 
 46 

Section 5.1 
Section 5.2 
Section 5.3 
 Closing 
Conditions to Closing and Initial Extensions of Credit 
Conditions to All Extensions of Credit 
 46 
46 
49 

ARTICLE VI COLLATERAL 
 50 

ARTICLE VII REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES 
 55 

ARTICLE VIII FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND NOTICES 
 61 

ARTICLE IX AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS 
 63 

ARTICLE X FINANCIAL COVENANTS 
 69 

ARTICLE XI NEGATIVE COVENANTS 
 70 

ARTICLE XII DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES 
 72 

ARTICLE XIII THE AGENT 
 78 

ARTICLE XIV MISCELLANEOUS 
 81 

EXHIBITS    

Exhibit A-1 
Exhibit A-2 
Exhibit B 
Exhibit C 
Exhibit D 
Exhibit E 
Exhibit F 
Exhibit G 
Exhibit H 
 
Form of Revolving Credit Note 
Form of Swing Line Note 
Form of Notice of Borrowing 
Form of Notice of Account Designation 
Form of Notice of Prepayment 
Form of Notice of Conversion/Continuation 
Form of Officer's Compliance Certificate 
Form of Borrowing Base Certificate 
Form of Assignment and Acceptance 

This
CREDIT AND SECURITY AGREEMENT is dated September 9, 2005, by and among
INTERPOOL, INC., a Delaware corporation ( Interpool ), and TRAC LEASE,
INC., a Delaware corporation ( Trac,  and together with Interpool,
each individually a  Borrower  and individually and collectively the
 Borrowers ), the Lenders who are or may become a party to this
Agreement and are listed on  Schedule 1  hereto, and NATIONAL CITY BANK, a
national banking association, as administrative and collateral agent for the
Lenders.   

BACKGROUND     

The
Borrowers have requested certain credit facilities, which the Lenders have
agreed to extend to the Borrowers on the terms and conditions of this Agreement
for use by the Borrowers to refinance certain existing indebtedness of the
Borrowers, to pay associated fees and expenses, and to finance ongoing working
capital needs, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes of the
Borrowers.   

NOW,
THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of
which are hereby acknowledged by the parties hereto, and intending to be legally
bound hereby, such parties hereby agree as follows:   

ARTICLE I 
 DEFINITIONS     

Section 1.1  Definitions . The following terms when used in this Agreement
shall have the meanings assigned to them below:  

2004 Warrants   means the warrants issued by Interpool pursuant
to a certain Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of September 14, 2004 among
Interpool and the investors signatory thereto for the purchase of 8,333.333
shares of common Equity Interests of Interpool on the terms and subject to the
conditions set forth in a Warrant Agreement dated as of September 14, 2004
between Interpool and U.S. Bank National Association, as amended.   

Additional Chassis   means Chassis (other than Substitute
Chassis) which are pledged to the Agent, in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement, after the date hereof.   

Affiliate   means, with respect to any specified Person, any
other Person (a) which directly or indirectly controls, or whose directors or
officers directly or indirectly control, or is controlled by, or is under common
control with, such specified Person, (b) which beneficially owns or holds, or
whose directors or officers beneficially own or hold, 5% or more of any class of
the Voting Stock (or, in the case of an entity that is not a Corporation, 5% of
the Equity Interest) of such specified Person, or (c) 5% or more of the Voting
Stock (or, in the case of an entity that is not a Corporation, 5% of the equity
interest) of which is owned or held by such specified Person. The term
 control  means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power
to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person,
whether through the ownership of Voting Stock, by contract, or otherwise; and
the terms  controlling  and  controlled  have meanings
correlative to the foregoing.   

Agent   means National City in its capacity as Agent hereunder,
and any successor thereto appointed pursuant to  Section 13.9  hereof.  

Agent s Office   means the office of the Agent specified
in or determined in accordance with the provisions of  Section 14.1(c) 
hereof.   

Aggregate Commitment   means the aggregate amount of the
Lenders  Commitments hereunder, as such amount may be reduced, increased or
modified at any time or from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof. On the
Closing Date, the Aggregate Commitment shall be One Hundred Twenty-Two Million
Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($122,500,000).   

Aggregate Finance Lease Value   means, as of any date of
determination, an amount equal to the sum of the Finance Lease Values of all
Eligible Leases.   

Aggregate Net Book Value   means, as of any date of
determination, an amount equal to the sum of the Net Book Values of all Eligible
Chassis not then subject to a Finance Lease.   

Agreement   means this Credit and Security Agreement including
the schedules and exhibits attached hereto, as amended, supplemented, restated
or otherwise modified.   

Applicable Law   means all applicable provisions of
constitutions, laws (including common laws), statutes, ordinances, rules,
treaties, conventions, regulations, permits, licenses, approvals,
interpretations and orders of courts or Governmental Authorities and all orders,
injunctions, writs, awards and decrees of all courts and arbitrators.  

Applicable Margin   initially, means the margins set forth at
Level II in the chart below. Beginning January 1, 2006, adjustments, if any, in
the Applicable Margin shall be made by the Agent on the first (1 st )
Business Day of the first calendar month after receipt by the Agent of (a) the
financial statements and accompanying Officer s Compliance Certificate
delivered in accordance with
 Section 8.1  hereof for the most recent fiscal quarter end (which adjustments to
Applicable Margin shall be based on the applicable level corresponding to the Funded Debt
to Tangible Net Worth Ratio set forth in the chart below); or, if applicable, or (b)
written notice from Interpool, with evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Agent, that
the issuer rating of Interpool is at least  BBB-  by S P or  Baa3 
by Moody s (in which case the adjustment in the Applicable Margin shall be based on
Level IV below).   

Level  
 Funded Debt to 
Tangible Net Worth Ratio 
 Applicable Base 
Rate Margin 
 Applicable 
LIBOR Margin 
 Commitment 
Fee

Subject to  Section 4.1(c)  hereof, in the event the Borrowers fail to
deliver financial statements and the accompanying Officer s Compliance
Certificate in accordance with, and within the time required by,  Section
8.1  hereof, the Applicable Margin shall be set at Level I above until the
delivery of such financial statements and certificate. If the issuer rating of
Interpool falls below  BBB-  by S P and  Baa3  by
Moody s in any calendar month, an adjustment will be made retroactively for
such month to reflect the Applicable Margin which would otherwise be calculated
hereunder without consideration of such rating.   

Application   means an application, in the form specified by
the Issuing Lender from time to time, requesting the Issuing Lender to issue a
Letter of Credit.   

Assignment and Acceptance   shall have the meaning assigned
thereto in  Section 14.10  (b)(iii) hereof.   

Base Rate   means, at any time, the higher of (a) the Prime
Rate and (b) the sum of (i) the Federal Funds Rate  plus  (ii) 1/2 of 1%.
Each change in the Base Rate shall take effect simultaneously with the
corresponding change or changes in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Rate.

Base
Rate Loan   means any Loan bearing interest at a rate based upon the
Base Rate as provided in  Section 4.1(a)  hereof.   

Borrower   means individually, and   Borrowers  
means individually and collectively, Interpool, Inc., a Delaware corporation,
and Trac Lease, Inc., a Delaware corporation, together with their successors and
permitted assigns.   

Borrowing Base   means at any time the sum of (a) 85% of the
then Aggregate Finance Lease Value,  plus  (b) 80% of the then Aggregate
Net Book Value.   

Borrowing Base Certificate   shall have the meaning assigned
thereto in  Section 8.2(b)  hereof.   

Business Day   means (a) for all purposes other than as set
forth in clause (b) below, any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday on which banks in Cleveland, Ohio are open for the conduct of their
commercial banking business, and (b) with respect to all notices and
determinations in connection with, and payments of principal and interest on,
any LIBOR Rate Loan, any day that is a Business Day described in clause (a) and
that is also a day for trading by and between banks in Dollar deposits in the
London interbank market.   

Capitalized Lease Obligations   means all obligations of
Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries under Capitalized Leases, as
reflected on Interpool s Consolidated balance sheet.   

Capitalized Leases   means any lease agreement pursuant to
which Interpool or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries is the lessee and the
lessee s obligations under which are required to be reflected as
liabilities on Interpool s Consolidated balance sheet.   

Casualty Item   means any Eligible Chassis that has become the
subject of an Event of Loss.   

Casualty Payment   means, as to any Lease, any payment under
such Lease, made in connection with an Event of Loss with respect to any Pledged
Chassis subject to such Lease, that terminates all or a portion of the related
Lessee s obligation to make subsequent Lease Payments pursuant to the terms
of such Lease.   

Certificate of Title   means, as to any Chassis, the
certificate of title, or other evidence of ownership, issued by the applicable
Governmental Authority of the jurisdiction in which title to such Chassis and
Liens thereon are registered.   

Change in Control   means that (a) any Person or two or more
Persons acting in concert (with the exception of (A) Interpool s
shareholders Martin Tuchman, Raoul J. Witteveen and Warren Serenbetz, and (B)
members of such shareholders  immediate families and related entities)
shall have (i) acquired beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, of more
than 50% of the combined economic or voting interests in Interpool or (ii)
acquired by contract or otherwise, or entered into a contract or arrangement
that, upon consummation, will result in its or their acquisition of the power to
exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence over the composition
of the board of directors or other similar management body of Interpool, or
otherwise over the management or policies of Interpool or (b) Interpool shall,
for any reason, cease to own all of the issued and outstanding Voting Stock of
Trac or otherwise cease to have a controlling influence over the composition of
the board of directors of Trac or otherwise over the management or policies of
Trac.   

Chassis   means the supporting frame of a non-automotive
vehicle designed to be hauled by road exclusive of any container or other
housing attached thereon, together with all substitutions, repairs,
replacements, non-severable appliances, instruments, accessories, furnishings,
other equipment, additions, parts and improvements from time to time
constituting a part thereof and all accessions thereto.   

Closing Date   means the date of this Agreement or such later
Business Day upon which each condition described in  Sections 5.1 and 5.2 
hereof shall be satisfied or waived in all respects in a manner acceptable to
the Agent, in its sole discretion.   

Code   means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
and the rules and regulations thereunder, each as amended, supplemented or
otherwise modified.   

Collateral   has the meaning assigned thereto in
 Section 6.1  hereof.   

Commitment   means, as to any Lender, the obligation of such
Lender to make Revolving Credit Loans to, to make or participate in Swing Line
Loans to and to issue or participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account
of the Borrowers hereunder in an aggregate principal or face amount at any time
outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender s name
on  Schedule 1  hereto, as the same may be reduced or modified at any time
or from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.   

Commitment Percentage   means, as to any Lender at any time,
the ratio of (a) the amount of the Commitment of such Lender to (b) the
Aggregate Commitment of all of the Lenders.   

Consolidated   means, with respect to any Person and any
specified Subsidiaries of such Person, refers to the consolidation of financial
statements of such Person and such Subsidiaries and of particular items in such
financial statements in accordance with GAAP.   

Contract Payment   means, with respect to any Lease, the
minimum monthly or other periodic contractual rental payment required to be made
thereunder for the use of the Pledged Chassis subject to such Lease.   

Controlled Group   means all trades or businesses (whether or
not incorporated) under common control that, together with any Borrower, are
treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or 414(c) of the Code or
Section 4001 of ERISA.   

Corporation   means any or all of the following, as the context
may require, corporations, limited partnerships, limited liability companies,
limited liability partnerships, joint stock associations and business trusts.

Credit Facility   means the collective reference to the
Revolving Credit Facility, the L/C Facility and the Swing Line Facility.  

Custodian   means the Person performing the duties of the
Custodian under the Custody Agreement; initially, U.S. Bank, National
Association, a national banking association, and its successors and permitted
assigns.   

Custody Agreement   means that certain Custodial Agreement
dated as of the date hereof, entered into among the Custodian, the Agent and the
Borrowers, as such agreement may be amended, modified, supplemented or restated
from time to time.   

Default   means any of the events specified in  Section
12.1  hereof which with the passage of time, the giving of notice or any
other condition, would constitute an Event of Default.   

Defaulted Lease   means any Lease for which: (a) any Contract
Payment (or portion more than 5% thereof) owing thereunder is more than 120 days
delinquent (measured from its contractual due date); (b) the related Lessee is
in default under any other provision of such lease not dealt with in clause (a)
and any applicable grace and/or cure period set forth in such lease has expired
and a Borrower has in accordance with its normal procedures declared such lease
to be in default; or (c) a Borrower has otherwise determined that the remaining
amounts owing by the Lessee under such lease are expected to be uncollectible.

Derivatives Obligations   means all obligations of any Person
in respect of any Hedging Agreement.   

Distributions   means, for any period of measurement with
respect to any Corporation, any of the following: (a) the declaration or payment
of any dividend or distribution on or in respect of shares of any class of
capital stock or other ownership interests of such Corporation, except dividends
payable solely in shares of such Corporation s common stock or other
ownership interests having rights similar to common stock; and (b) any other
loan, dividend or distribution for any purpose from such Corporation (however
characterized) to or for the benefit of any or all of its shareholders, whether
paid on or in respect of shares of any class of the capital stock or other
ownership interests of such Corporation or otherwise.   

Dollars   and   $   means Dollars or such coin
or currency of the United States as at the time of payment shall be legal funds
for the payment of public and private debts in the United States.   

Earnings Available for Fixed Charges   means, for any rolling
four quarter period, the sum of Fixed Charges for such period plus Net Income
for such period (adjusted to account for the impact of any non-cash fair value
adjustment for the 2004 Warrants) before income taxes plus interest expenses for
such period relating to (A) Interpool s 9-7/8% Junior Subordinated
Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2027 and the related 9-7/8% Capital
Securities of Interpool Capital on the consolidated balance sheet of Interpool
and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, (B) the 9.25% Convertible Redeemable Junior
Subordinated Debentures due 2022 on the consolidated balance sheet of Interpool
and its Consolidated Subsidiaries and (C) any future subordinated debt of
Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries.   

Eligible Assignee   means, with respect to any assignment of
the rights, interest and obligations of a Lender hereunder, a Person that is at
the time of such assignment: (a) a commercial bank organized under the laws of
the United States or any state thereof, having combined capital and surplus in
excess of $500,000,000; (b) a commercial bank organized under the laws of any
other country that is a member of the Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development, or a political subdivision of any such country, having combined
capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000; (c) a finance company, insurance
company or other financial institution which in the ordinary course of business
extends credit of the type extended hereunder and that has total assets in
excess of $1,000,000,000; (d) a Lender hereunder (whether as an original party
to this Agreement or as the assignee of another Lender); (e) the successor
(whether by transfer of assets, merger or otherwise) to all or substantially all
of the commercial lending business of the assigning Lender; or (f) any other
Person that has been approved in writing as an Eligible Assignee by the Agent
(and, so long as no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing,
the Borrowers).   

Eligible Chassis   means, as of any date of determination, any
Pledged Chassis which complies with the covenants set forth in this Agreement
and each of the following requirements:   

(a)  Such Pledged Chassis substantially conforms to the standard
specifications used by each of the Borrowers for Chassis purchased for their own
account, for that category of Chassis and applicable industry
standards;  

(b)  To any Borrower s knowledge, such Pledged Chassis is not
then the subject of an Event of Loss (or an event which, with notice and/or
lapse of time, would constitute an Event of Loss);  

(c)  A Borrower has good and valid title to such Pledged Chassis, free
and clear of all Liens other than Permitted Liens and such Pledged Chassis shall
not have been satisfied, subordinated, rescinded or sold, transferred, assigned
or pledged by any Borrower to any Person other than the Agent;  

(d)  The Agent has a first priority perfected security interest in
such Pledged Chassis and any Lease and, to the extent in which a security
interest can be perfected under Article 9 of the UCC, Related Assets with
respect to such Pledged Chassis (subject only to Permitted Liens);  

(e)  The pledge of such Pledged Chassis and the Related Assets from a
Borrower, to the Agent does not violate any agreement to which any Borrower is a
party or by which any Borrower and/or its properties are bound;  

(f)  No consent or
approval from the Lessee or other Person is required to pledge such Pledged
Chassis or the Related Assets from any Borrower to the Agent except for any such
consents or approvals that have been obtained;  

(g)  Such Pledged Chassis is titled (or, if such Chassis is a new
Chassis purchased directly from the manufacturer or another seller, will be
titled) under the laws of one of the states of the United States;  

(h)  Following issuance, the Certificate of Title for such Pledged
Chassis shall be held by the Custodian and reflect a Borrower as the sole owner
of such Pledged Chassis and the Agent as the sole secured party with respect to
such Pledged Chassis;  

(i)  Such Pledged Chassis was not subject to any adverse selection
procedures by any Borrower in selecting such Pledged Chassis and its Related
Assets to be Pledged Assets;  

(j)  Each Lessee under any Lease of such Pledged Chassis is Solvent
and is not an Affiliate of any Borrower;  

(k)  Such Pledged Chassis is not then (i) on lease to a Prohibited
Person, or (ii) used in a Prohibited Jurisdiction;  

(l)   Such Pledged Chassis is located within the United States of
America, Canada or Mexico;  

(m)  Such Pledged Chassis is not then subject to a Defaulted
Lease;  

(n)  Such Pledged Chassis is not then subject to a Finance
Lease;  

(o)  The purchase price paid by the applicable Borrower to the
manufacturer thereof did not exceed the then fair market value of such Pledged
Chassis; and  

(p)  Such Pledged Chassis is subject to no Liens other than Permitted
Liens;  

provided that, (A) compliance with paragraph (d) above, with respect to
perfection of the Agent s security interest in such Chassis, is hereby
waived for the first sixty (60) days during which such Chassis is pledged to the
Agent as Collateral, so long as prior to the end of such period: (i) the
Borrower has delivered the related Certificate of Title (or, if such Pledged
Chassis is a Chassis purchased directly from the manufacturer or another seller,
the necessary purchase documentation) and all other necessary documentation
required by the applicable Governmental Authority to cause such Certificate of
Title, upon issuance, to reflect a Borrower as the sole owner of, and the Agent
as the sole secured party with respect to, such Chassis, to the Filing Agent and
has taken all other steps necessary for the Filing Agent to process an
application for title in the appropriate jurisdiction with the such Governmental
Authority; (ii) the Filing Agent has filed such application and has notified
Interpool in writing (which notice may be made electronically and shall, in any
case, specifically identify such Pledged Chassis) that it has done so (and a
copy of such notice has been delivered to the Agent); (iii) such application has
not been rejected or returned; and (iv) a collateral schedule indicating that
such Chassis has been pledged to the Agent shall have been received by the
Custodian, and (B) to the extent that more than five percent (5%) of all Pledged
Chassis are located in Mexico at any time, any such excess shall not be treated
as Pledged Chassis for purposes of the calculation of the Borrowing Base.

Eligible Investments   means one or more of the following:

(a)  direct obligations of, and obligations fully guaranteed as to the
timely payment of principal and interest by, the United States or obligations of
any agency or instrumentality thereof when such obligations are backed by the
full faith and credit of the United States;  

(b)  certificates of deposit and bankers  acceptances (which
shall each have an original maturity of not more than three hundred sixty-five
(365) days) of any United States depository institution or trust company
incorporated under the laws of the United States or any State and subject to
supervision and examination by federal and/or State authorities, provided that
the long-term unsecured senior debt obligations of such depository institution
or trust company at the date of acquisition thereof have been rated at least
 A-1  by S P and  P-1  by Moody s or which is
otherwise acceptable to the Agent;  

(c)  commercial paper
(having original maturities of not more than two hundred seventy (270) days) of
any corporation incorporated under the laws of the United States or any State
thereof which on the date of acquisition has been rated at least  A-1 
by S P and  P-1  by Moody s or which is otherwise acceptable
to the Agent;  

(d)  any money market fund that invests solely in Eligible
Investments;  

(e)  eurodollar deposits (which shall each have an original maturity
of not more than three hundred sixty-five (365) days) of any depository
institution or trust company, provided that the long-term unsecured senior debt
obligations of such depository institution or trust company at the date of
acquisition thereof have been rated at least  A-1  by S P and
 P-1  by Moody s or which is otherwise acceptable to the Agent;
and  

(f)  other
obligations or securities that are acceptable to the Agent.  

Eligible Leases   means any Finance Lease that, as of any date
of determination, complies with the covenants set forth in this Agreement and
each of the following requirements:   

(a)   Such Finance Lease is not a Defaulted Lease;  

(b)  No rental payment owing pursuant to the terms of such Finance
Lease is more than ninety (90) days delinquent (measured from its contractual
due date) as of such date of determination;  

(c)  Such Finance Lease is a legal, valid and binding full recourse
payment obligation of the related Lessee enforceable in accordance with its
terms (except as may be limited by applicable insolvency, bankruptcy,
moratorium, reorganization, or other similar laws affecting enforceability of
creditors  rights generally and the availability of equitable remedies) and
is in full force and effect and such Finance Lease has not been satisfied,
subordinated or rescinded;  

(d)  The Lessee s obligations under such Lease are  hell or
high water  obligations that are, among other characteristics,
non-cancelable, unconditional and not subject to any right of set-off,
rescission, counterclaim, offset, reduction or recoupment except that, upon
making of a Casualty Payment under such Lease, the obligation of the related
Lessee to make Lease Payments thereunder may be reduced
accordingly;  

(e)  Each Lease contains provisions requiring the Lessee to pay all
sales, use, excise, rental, property or similar taxes imposed on or with respect
to the related Pledged Chassis and to assume all risk of loss, damage, or
destruction of such Pledged Chassis, and each Lease requires the Lessee to
maintain the related Pledged Chassis in good and workable order and to obtain
and maintain liability insurance, physical damage insurance and automobile
liability insurance on such Pledged Chassis subject thereto and to name the
lessor under the Lease as a loss payee and an additional insured with respect
thereto (except as provided in Section 9.7 hereof);  

(f)  The pledge by a Borrower to the Agent of a security interest in
such Finance Lease and the related Pledged Chassis will not violate the terms or
provisions of such Finance Lease or any other agreement to which any Borrower is
a party or by which they are bound;  

(g)  Such Finance Lease has not been amended prior to the Closing Date
or Substitution Date, as appropriate, such that the amount of any Contract
Payment owing pursuant to the terms of such Finance Lease has been decreased, or
any other obligations of the Lessee under such Finance Lease have been
diminished, due to the related Lessee s financial inability to make such
payments;  

(h)  The related Lessee is Solvent and is not an Affiliate of any
Borrower;  

(i)  All payments owing under such Finance Lease are required to be
made in Dollars;  

(j)  Such Finance Lease provides for the acceleration of all rental
payments thereunder upon default by the Lessee;  

(k)  Such Finance Lease requires that in the event of an Event of
Loss, the related Lessee must take one of the following actions: (i) restore or
repair the affected Pledged Chassis to good repair, condition and working order;
(ii) replace the Pledged Chassis with like equipment of the same or later model
in good repair, condition and working order; (iii) make a lump sum payment in an
amount that is not less than the then Finance Lease Value of the Casualty Item;
or (iv) continue to make Contract Payments on its regularly scheduled basis
despite the occurrence of an Event of Loss;  

(l)  Such Finance Lease and the Pledged Chassis and Related Assets
subject to such Finance Lease are not subject to any Liens other than Permitted
Liens;  

(m)  The Agent has a first priority perfected security interest in
such Finance Lease and the related Pledged Chassis and, to the extent in which a
security interest can be perfected under Article 9 of the UCC, Related Assets
with respect to such Finance Lease (subject only to Permitted Liens);  

(n)  Each Pledged Chassis subject to such Finance Lease is titled (or,
if such Chassis is a new Chassis purchased directly from the manufacturer or
another seller, will be titled) under the laws of one of the states of the
United States;  

(o)  Each Pledged Chassis subject to such Finance Lease is located
within the United States of America, Canada or Mexico; and  

(p)  Following issuance, the Certificate of Title for the related
Pledged Chassis shall be held by the Custodian and reflect a Borrower as the
sole owner of such Pledged Chassis and the Agent as the sole secured party with
respect to such Pledged Chassis;  

provided that, (A) compliance with paragraph (m) above, with respect to
perfection of the Agent s security interest in such Chassis, is hereby
waived for the first sixty (60) days during which such Chassis is pledged to the
Agent as Collateral, so long as prior to the end of such period: (i) the
Borrower has delivered the related Certificate of Title (or, if such Pledged
Chassis is a Chassis purchased directly from the manufacturer or another seller,
the necessary purchase documentation) and all other necessary documentation
required by the applicable Governmental Authority to cause such Certificate of
Title, upon issuance, to reflect a Borrower as the sole owner of, and the Agent
as the sole secured party with respect to, such Chassis, to the Filing Agent and
has taken all other steps necessary for the Filing Agent to process an
application for title in the appropriate jurisdiction with the such Governmental
Authority; (ii) the Filing Agent has filed such application and has notified
Interpool in writing (which notice may be made electronically and shall, in any
case, specifically identify such Pledged Chassis) that it has done so (and a
copy of such notice has been delivered to the Agent); (iii) such application has
not been rejected or returned; and (iv) a collateral schedule indicating that
such Chassis has been pledged to the Agent shall have been received by the
Custodian, and (B) to the extent that more than five percent (5%) of all Pledged
Chassis are located in Mexico at any time, any such excess shall not be treated
as Pledged Chassis for purposes of the calculation of the Borrowing Base.

Environmental Laws   means any and all United States federal,
state, local and foreign laws, statutes, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders,
decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or other
governmental restrictions relating to fines, orders, injunctions, penalties,
damages, contribution, cost recovery compensation, losses or injuries resulting
from the Release or threatened Release of Hazardous Materials or to the
generation, storage, transportation, or disposal of Hazardous Materials, in any
manner applicable to Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their
respective properties, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C.  9601 et seq.), the Hazardous
Material Transportation Act (49 U.S.C.  1801 et seq.), the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (42 U.S.C.  6901 et seq.), the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C.  1251 et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C.  7401 et
seq. , the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C.  2601 et. seq. , the
Occupational Safety and Health Act (29 U.S.C.  651 et. seq. and the
Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (42 U.S.C.   11001 et.
seq.), each as amended or supplemented, and any analogous future or present
local, state and federal or foreign statutes and rules and regulations
promulgated pursuant thereto, each as in effect on the date of determination.

Equity Interests   means, with respect to any Person, any and
all shares, partnership, membership, trust and other interests, participations
or other equivalents (however designated) of equity ownership interests of such
Person.   

ERISA   means the United States Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, and the rules and regulations thereunder, collectively, as
the same may be amended from time to time.   

ERISA Affiliate   means any Person who together with any
Borrower is treated as a single employer within the meaning of Section 414(b),
(c), (m) or (o) of the Code or Section 4001(b) of ERISA.   

Eurodollar Reserve Percentage   means, for any day, the
percentage (expressed as a decimal and rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next higher
one-hundredth of one percent (1/100%)) which is in effect for such day as prescribed by
the Federal Reserve Board (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve
requirement (including, without limitation, any basic, supplemental or emergency reserves)
in respect of eurocurrency liabilities or any similar category of liabilities for a member
bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City.   

Event of Default   means any of the events specified in
 Section 12.1  hereof, provided that any requirement for passage of time, giving of
notice, or any other condition, has been satisfied.   

Event of Loss   means, with respect to any Pledged Chassis as
of any date of determination, any of the following events or conditions:

(a)  total loss or destruction thereof;  

(b)  theft or disappearance thereof without recovery within sixty
(60) days after such theft or disappearance first becomes known to any
Borrower;  

(c)  damage rendering such Pledged Chassis unfit for normal use and,
in the judgment of any Borrower, beyond repair at reasonable
cost;  

(d)  any condemnation, seizure, forced sale or other taking of title
to or use of any such Pledged Chassis;  

(e)  if such Pledged Chassis is then subject to the terms of a Lease,
such Pledged Chassis shall have been deemed under the terms of such Lease to
have suffered an Event of Loss (or an equivalent term);  

(f)  it is then located in a Prohibited Jurisdiction; or  

(g)  it is not then located within the United States of America,
Canada or Mexico,  

provided, however, no Pledged Chassis shall be deemed to be subject to an Event
of Loss for so long as the Lessee continues to pay any Lease Payments with
respect to such Pledged Chassis without reduction or offset.   

Existing Facility   means the $15,000,000 loan from National
City to Interpool, evidenced by,  inter alia , a Commercial Note dated July
15, 2004, as amended from time to time.   

Extensions of Credit   means, as to any Lender at any time, an
amount equal to the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of all Revolving
Credit Loans made by such Lender then outstanding, (b) such Lender s
Commitment Percentage of the L/C Obligations then outstanding, and (c) such
Lender s Commitment Percentage of the principal amount of the Swing Line
Loans then outstanding.   

Federal Funds Rate   means, the rate per annum (rounded
upwards, if necessary, to the next higher one-hundredth of one percent (1/100%))
representing the daily effective federal funds rate as quoted by the Agent and
confirmed in Federal Reserve Board Statistical Release H.15 (519) or any
successor or substitute publication selected by the Agent. If, for any reason,
such rate is not available, then Federal Funds Rate shall mean a daily rate
which is determined, in the opinion of the Agent, to be the rate at which
federal funds are being offered for sale in the national federal funds market at
9:00 a.m. (Cleveland time). Rates for weekends or holidays shall be the same as
the rate for the most immediate preceding Business Day.   

Fee Letter   means that certain letter agreement executed by
the Borrowers and the Agent dated April 8, 2005, as may be amended,
supplemented, modified or restated from time to time.   

Filing Agent   means a registered Maine titling agent, or such
other registered titling agent from a state with respect to which the Borrowers
have provided the Agent with an opinion of local counsel as to the method of
perfection of the Agent s security interest in Chassis under the UCC and
motor vehicle laws of such state, both of which are to the satisfaction of the
Agent (in its reasonable discretion).   

Finance Lease   means any Lease of a Pledged Chassis which
provides the Lessee with the right or option to purchase such Pledged Chassis at
the expiration of the term of the Lease for a nominal price or which otherwise
satisfies the criteria for classification as a  direct financing
lease  as determined in accordance with GAAP, on the books and records of
Interpool.   

Finance Lease Value   means, with respect to each Finance Lease
as of any date of determination, an amount in Dollars equal to the  Net
Investment  in such Finance Lease, determined in accordance with the method
(as applied to the Leases) used to calculate the value of  Net Investment
in Direct Financing Leases  set forth on Interpool s Consolidated
balance sheets as of December 31, 2004.   

Fiscal Year   means the fiscal year of the Borrowers.  

Fixed Charges   means, for any rolling four quarter period, the
sum of (i) interest expense (as determined in accordance with GAAP) excluding
interest expense for such period with respect to (A) Interpool s 9-7/8%
Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2027 and the related
9-7/8% Capital Securities of Interpool Capital on the consolidated balance sheet
of Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, and (B) the amount representing
the 9.25% Convertible Redeemable Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2022 on the
consolidated balance sheet of Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries and
(C) any future subordinated debt of Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries)
plus (ii) obligations of Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as a lessee
for lease rentals on long term leases (as determined in accordance with GAAP)
for such period.   

Funded Debt   means all indebtedness for borrowed money with
recourse to Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, or any of them,
including purchase money mortgages, capitalized leases, conditional sales
contracts and similar title retention debt instruments (excluding any current
maturities portion of such indebtedness that becomes due within 12 months from
the date of calculation thereof). The calculation of Funded Debt shall include
all Funded Debt of Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries which appears in
Interpool s consolidated financial statements, plus any liabilities which
would otherwise be classified as Funded Debt of any other Person (if such Person
was a Consolidated Subsidiary), which has been guaranteed by Interpool and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries or any of them, either jointly or severally.
 Funded Debt  shall exclude (A) the amount representing
Interpool s 9-7/8% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due
2027 and the related 9-7/8% Capital Securities of Interpool Capital on the
consolidated balance sheet of Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of
the most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are
available, (B) amount representing the 9.25% Convertible Redeemable Junior
Subordinated Debentures due 2022 on the consolidated balance sheet of Interpool
and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter
for which financial statements are available and (C) future subordinated debt of
Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries.   

GAAP   means accounting principles which are (a) consistent
with the principles promulgated or adopted from time to time by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board and its predecessors, (b) generally accepted in the
United States of America, and (c) such that a certified public accountant would,
insofar as the use of accounting principles is pertinent, be in a position to
deliver an unqualified opinion as to financial statements in which such
principles have been properly applied.   

Funding   means Interpool Chassis Funding, LLC, a Delaware
limited liability company, and its successors and permitted assigns.   

Governmental Authority   means any government or political
subdivision or any agency, authority, bureau, central bank, commission,
department or instrumentality of either, or any court, tribunal, grand jury or
arbitrator, in each case whether foreign or domestic.   

Guarantees   by any Person means all obligations (other than
endorsements in the ordinary course of business of negotiable instruments for
deposit or collection) of such Person guaranteeing, or in effect guaranteeing,
any Indebtedness, dividend or other obligation of any other Person (the primary
obligor) in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, including all
obligations incurred through an agreement, contingent or otherwise, by such
Person: (a) to purchase such Indebtedness or obligation or any property or
assets constituting security therefor; (b) to advance or supply funds (i) for
the purchase or payment of such Indebtedness or obligation, or (ii) to maintain
working capital or any other balance sheet condition or otherwise to advance or
to make available funds for the purchase or payment of such Indebtedness or
obligation; (c) to lease property or to purchase securities or other property or
services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or
obligation of the ability of the primary obligor to make payment of the
Indebtedness or obligation; or (d) otherwise to assure the owner of the
Indebtedness or obligation of the primary obligor against loss in respect
thereof. For the purposes of all computations made under this Agreement, a
guaranty in respect of any Indebtedness for borrowed money shall be deemed to be
Indebtedness equal to the principal amount of such Indebtedness for borrowed
money which has been guaranteed, and a guaranty in respect of any other
obligation or liability or any dividend shall be deemed to be Indebtedness equal
to the maximum aggregate amount of such obligation, liability or dividend.

Hazardous Materials   means any: (a) oil, petroleum or
petroleum derived substance, any drilling fluids, produced waters and other
wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of crude oil,
any flammable substances or explosives, any radioactive materials, any hazardous
wastes or substances, any toxic wastes or substances or any other materials or
pollutants which (i) pose a hazard to any property of Interpool or any of its
Subsidiaries or to Persons on or about such property or (ii) cause such property
to be in violation of any Environmental Laws; (b) asbestos in any form which is
or could become friable, urea formaldehyde foam insulation, electrical equipment
which contains any oil or electric fluid containing levels of polychlorinated
biphenyls in excess of fifty parts per million; (c) any chemical, material or
substance defined as or included in the definition of  hazardous
substances,   hazardous wastes,   hazardous materials, 
 extremely hazardous waste,  restricted hazardous waste,  or
 toxic substances  or words of similar import under any applicable
local, state or federal law or under the rules and regulations adopted or
publications promulgated pursuant thereto, including Environmental Laws; or (d)
any other chemical, material or substance, exposure to which is prohibited,
limited or regulated by any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over
Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties.

Hedging Agreement   means any agreement with respect to an
interest rate swap transaction, basis swap, forward rate transaction, commodity
swap, commodity option, equity swap or equity index swap, equity option or
equity index option, bond option, interest rate option, foreign exchange
transaction, cap transaction, floor transaction, collar transaction, currency
swap transaction, cross-currency rate swap transaction, currency option or any
other similar transaction (including any option with respect to any of the
foregoing transactions) or any combination of the foregoing transactions, all as
amended, restated or otherwise modified.   

Indebtedness   means, for any Person, all obligations,
contingent or otherwise, that in accordance with GAAP should be classified on
such Person s balance sheet as liabilities, or to which reference should be
made by footnotes thereto, including in any event and whether so classified,
all: (a) obligations created, issued or incurred by such Person for borrowed
money (whether by loan, the issuance and sale of debt securities or the sale of
property to another Person subject to an agreement, contingent or otherwise, to
repurchase such property from such Person); (b) obligations of such Person to
pay the deferred purchase or acquisition price of property or services, other
than trade accounts payable (other than for borrowed money) arising, and accrued
expenses incurred, in the ordinary course of business so long as such trade
accounts payable are payable within 90 days of the date the respective goods are
delivered or the respective services are rendered; (c) indebtedness of others
secured by a Lien on the property of such Person, whether or not the respective
indebtedness so secured has been assumed by such Person; (d) obligations of such
Person in respect of letters of credit or similar instruments issued or accepted
by banks and other financial institutions for the account of such Person; (e)
Capitalized Lease Obligations of such Person; (f) the net amount of any mark to
market exposure under Derivatives Obligations of such Person; (g) without
duplication, obligations of such Person under Guarantees of Indebtedness of
others; and (h) all preferred stock issued by such Person and required by the
terms thereof to be redeemed, or for which mandatory sinking fund payments are
due, by a fixed date (but only to the extent such fixed date occurs prior to
September 9, 2011).   

Intercreditor Agreement   means that certain Intercreditor and
Lockbox Administration Agreement dated as of March 28, 2002, entered into among
Interpool, JPMorgan Chase Bank, Funding, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC (f/k/a
First Union Securities, Inc.), and various  Joined Parties 
thereunder, including, as of the Closing Date, the Agent, as such agreement may
be amended, modified, supplemented or restated from time to time.   

Interest Period   shall have the meaning assigned thereto in
 Section 4.1(b)  hereof.   

Issuing Lender   means National City, in its capacity as issuer
of any Letter of Credit, or any successor thereto.   

L/C Commitment   means the lesser of (a) Five Million Dollars
($5,000,000) and (b) the Aggregate Commitment.   

L/C Facility   means the letter of credit facility established
pursuant to  Article III  hereof.   

L/C Obligations   means at any time, an amount equal to the sum
of (a) the aggregate undrawn and unexpired amount of the then outstanding
Letters of Credit and (b) the aggregate amount of Reimbursement Obligations
which have not then been reimbursed pursuant to  Section 3.7  hereof.

L/C Participants   means the collective reference to all the
Lenders other than the Issuing Lender.   

Lease   means a lease, sublease or contract (other than the
Master Lease) for use or hire of or for any Pledged Chassis, together with any
assignments thereof and any delivery and acceptance certificate therefor, any
guaranties and amendments, addendums and other modifications thereto (including
any Substitute Leases), but only to the extent such leases or contracts relate
to such Pledged Chassis.   

Lease File   means, with respect to each Pledged Chassis:

(a)  if subject to a Lease, the original counterpart thereof that
constitutes  chattel paper  for purposes of the UCC or, for any Lease
which does not constitute  chattel paper , a true and complete copy of
the originally executed lease; provided, however, for any Lease executed after
the date of this Agreement, the Lease File shall contain an original counterpart
or complete copy, as applicable, no later than thirty (30) days after such Lease
is executed;  

(b)  evidence or verification of an insurance policy covering such
risks and amounts and otherwise complying with the requirements of the Servicing
Standard and the related Lease for such Chassis (except where the related Lessee
is self-insured in accordance with the terms of this Agreement);  

(c)   any loan or security agreement relating to such Chassis or any
Lease related thereto, together with originals of any notes, instruments or
documents relating thereto;  

(d)  each receipt of acceptance by the applicable Lessee of such
Chassis, if any;  

(e)  with respect to such Chassis, each guaranty of any related Lease,
if any;  

(f)  each UCC financing statement which relates to such Chassis or
any related Lease or Related Assets, if any;  

(g)  each amendment of any related Lease, if any; and  

(h)  each assignment of any related Lease, if any.  

Lease Payment   means, with respect to any Lease, any Contract
Payment or other payment required to be paid by the related Lessee under such
Lease.   

Lender   means each Person executing this Agreement as a Lender
set forth on the signature pages hereto and each Person that hereafter becomes a
party to this Agreement as a Lender pursuant to  Section 14.10  hereof.

Lending Office   means, with respect to any Lender, the office
of such Lender maintaining such Lender s Commitment Percentage of the
Loans.   

Lessee   means a Person that is contractually obligated to make
rental and other payments under a Lease, including any guarantor of such
obligations.   

Letters of Credit   has the meaning assigned thereto in
 Section 3.1  hereof.   

LIBOR   means the rate of interest per annum determined on the
basis of the rate for deposits in Dollars, in amounts substantially equal to the
amount of the LIBOR Rate Loan to which such LIBOR Rate will apply, for a period
equal to the applicable Interest Period which appears on the Telerate Page 3750
at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two (2) Business Days prior to the
first day of the applicable Interest Period (rounded upwards, if necessary, to
the next higher one-hundredth of one percent (1/100%)). If, for any reason, such
rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, then LIBOR shall be determined by
the Agent to be the arithmetic average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the
next higher one-hundredth of one percent (1/100%)) of the rate per annum at
which deposits in Dollars would be offered by first class banks in the London
interbank market to the Agent at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two (2)
Business Days prior to the first day of the applicable Interest Period for a
period equal to such Interest Period and in an amount substantially equal to the
amount of the applicable LIBOR Rate Loan.   

LIBOR Rate   means a rate per annum (rounded upwards, if
necessary, to the next higher one-hundredth of one percent (1/100%)) determined
by the Agent pursuant to the following formula:   

LIBOR Rate = 
 LIBOR          

1.00 -Eurodollar Reserve Percentage 

LIBOR Rate Loan   means any Loan bearing interest at a rate
based upon the LIBOR Rate as provided in  Section 4.1(a)  hereof.

Lien   means any mortgage, pledge, security interest, lien or
other charge or encumbrance, including the lien or retained security title of a
conditional vendor, upon or with respect to any property or assets.   

Loan   means, individually, any Revolving Credit Loan or Swing
Line Loan and   Loans   means, collectively, all of such Loans.

Loan Documents   means, collectively, this Agreement, the
Notes, the Custody Agreement, the Lockbox Agreement, the Intercreditor
Agreement, the Master Lease, any Secured Hedging Agreement and each other
document, instrument, certificate and agreement executed and delivered by any
Borrower or any Subsidiary of any Borrower in connection with this Agreement or
otherwise referred to herein or contemplated hereby, all as may be amended,
supplemented, restated or otherwise modified from time to time.   

Lockbox Agreement   means that certain Lockbox Agreement dated
as of March 28, 2002, entered into among Interpool, JPMorgan Chase Bank,
Funding, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC (f/k/a First Union Securities, Inc.), and
various  Joined Parties  thereunder, including, as of the Closing
Date, the Agent, as such agreement may be amended, modified, supplemented or
restated from time to time.   

Master Lease   means that certain Master Lease Agreement, dated
as of September 9, 2005, between the Interpool and Trac.   

Materially Adverse Effect   means, any act, omission, event or
undertaking which would, singly or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse
effect upon (a) the business, assets, properties, liabilities, condition
(financial or otherwise), or results of operations of Interpool and its
Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or of any Borrower considered individually, (b)
upon the respective ability of any Borrower to perform any obligations under
this Agreement or under any other Loan Document to which it is a party, or (c)
the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability or the ability of the
Agent to enforce any rights or remedies under or in connection with any Loan
Document; in any case, whether resulting from any single act, omission,
situation, status, event, or undertaking, together with other such acts,
omissions situations, statuses, events, or undertakings.   

Moody s   means Moody s Investors Service,
Inc.  

National City   means National City Bank, a national banking
association and its successors.   

Net Book Value     means, with respect to any Eligible
Chassis, the Original Equipment Cost of such Chassis less accumulated
depreciation calculated based on (a) straight-line depreciation over 22.5 years
with a remaining residual value of $2,600 at the end of such period, or (b) any
other depreciation method used by the Borrowers which is more conservative than
the depreciation policy outlined in clause (a) (i.e. more conservative policy in
terms of greater annual depreciation or a lower remaining residual value) and of
which the Agent has received prior written notice.   

Net Income   means, for any fiscal period of any Person, the
consolidated net income of such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period
determined in accordance with GAAP.   

Notes   means collectively the Revolving Credit Notes and the
Swing Line Note and   Note   means any of such Notes.   

Notice of Account Designation   shall have the meaning assigned
thereto in  Section 2.2(c)  hereof.   

Notice of Borrowing   shall have the meaning assigned thereto
in  Section 2.2(a)  hereof.   

Notice of Conversion/Continuation   shall have the meaning
assigned thereto in  Section 4.2  hereof.   

Notice of Prepayment   shall have the meaning assigned thereto
in  Section 2.3(c)  hereof.   

Obligations   means, in each case, whether now in existence or
hereafter arising: (a) the principal of and interest on (including, without
limitation, interest accruing after the filing of any bankruptcy or similar
petition) the Loans; (b) the L/C Obligations; (c) all Derivatives Obligations
owing by any Borrower under any Secured Hedging Agreement; and (d) all other
fees, expenses and commissions (including, without limitation, attorney s
fees), charges, indebtedness, loans, liabilities, financial accommodations,
obligations, covenants and duties owing by the Borrowers to the Lenders or the
Agent, of every kind, nature and description, direct or indirect, absolute or
contingent, due or to become due, contractual or tortious, liquidated or
unliquidated, that relate to any Note, any Letter of Credit or any of the other
Loan Documents or the Fee Letter.   

Officer s Compliance Certificate   shall have the meaning
assigned thereto in  Section 8.2(a)  hereof.   

Original Equipment Cost   means, with respect to any Chassis,
an amount equal to the sum of (a) the vendor s or manufacturer s
invoice price, including tires, plus (b) reasonable and customary out-of-pocket
direct costs related to inspection, transport and initial positioning necessary
to put such Chassis in its initial service; provided, however, that, in no event
shall the amounts described in clause (b) include any allocated overhead
expenses of the Borrowers.   

Other Taxes   shall have the meaning assigned thereto in
 Section 4.11(b)  hereof.   

Patriot Act   means the Uniting and Strengthening America
by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001
(Public Law 107-56), and the rules and regulations thereunder, each as amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified.   

PBGC   means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation created
by ERISA or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions
of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.   

Permitted Liens   means, with respect to any Collateral, any of
the following: (a) Liens for taxes, assessments, levies, fees and other
governmental and similar charges not yet due and payable or being contested in
good faith and for amounts not past due; (b) mechanics ,
warehousemens , materialmens , suppliers , laborers  or of
like persons  Liens for amounts not past due; (c) Liens arising out of any
judgment or award against any Lessee, lessee or sublessee of any Pledged
Chassis; (d) Liens pursuant to any Loan Documents; (e) salvage rights of
insurers; and (f) the standard and customary rights provided Lessees in the
ordinary course of business with respect to Leases, including, without
limitation, rights related to quiet enjoyment of the related Pledged Chassis and
purchase of such Pledged Chassis at the end of the term of the related Lease;
 provided, however,  such Permitted Liens pursuant to (a), (b) and (c) are
being contested in good faith in appropriate proceedings and as to which
adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP shall have been established, but only
so long as enforcement of any such Lien has been stayed and so long as such
proceedings could not subject any Borrower or the Agent to any civil or criminal
penalty or liability or involve any material loss of value of, or risk of loss,
sale or forfeiture of, any of the Collateral.   

Person   means a Corporation, an individual, a general
partnership, association, trust, business trust, joint venture, joint stock
company, pool, syndicate, sole proprietorship, unincorporated organization,
Governmental Authority or any other form of entity or group thereof.   

Plan   means, at any time, an employee pension or other benefit
plan that is subject to Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding
standards under Section 412 of the Code and is either (a) maintained by any
Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group for employees of any Borrower or
any member of the Controlled Group, or (b) if such Plan is established,
maintained pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement or any other
arrangement under which more than one employer makes contributions and to which
any Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group is then making or accruing an
obligation to make contributions or has within the preceding five Plan years
made contributions.   

Pledged Assets   means the Master Lease and all Pledged
Chassis, Leases and Related Assets.   

Pledged Chassis   means all of the Chassis listed on
 Schedule 2  hereto, together with any Additional Chassis and Substitute Chassis
pledged by a Borrower to the Agent from time to time, as evidenced by a revised
 Schedule 2  delivered to the Agent and the Custodian.   

Prime Rate   means, at any time, the rate of interest per annum
publicly announced from time to time by National City as its prime rate. Each
change in the Prime Rate shall be effective as of the opening of business on the
day such change in the Prime Rate occurs. The parties hereto acknowledge that
the rate announced publicly by National City as its Prime Rate is an index or
base rate and shall not necessarily be its lowest or best rate charged to its
customers or other banks.   

Prohibited Institution   means any institution so designated by
the Borrowers in writing from time to time to the Agent and each Lender;
provided, however, that: (a) no more than five (5) institutions shall be
designated at any one time as a Prohibited Institution; (b) no Lender nor any
Affiliate of any Lender shall be designated a Prohibited Institution; (c) the
entities listed on  Schedule 3  hereto shall not be designated as
Prohibited Institution; and (d) all such designations shall be made (i) only
prospectively and (ii) only while no Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing.   

Prohibited Jurisdiction   means any country or jurisdiction,
from time to time, that is subject of a prohibition order (or any similar order
or directive), sanctions or restrictions promulgated or administered by the
Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Treasury Department.

Prohibited Person   means any Person appearing on the Specially
Designated Nationals List compiled and disseminated by the Office of Foreign
Assets Control of the United States Treasury Department, as the same may be
amended from time to time.   

Register   shall have the meaning assigned thereto in
 Section 14.10(d)  hereof.   

Reimbursement Obligation   means the obligation of the
Borrowers to reimburse the Issuing Lender pursuant to  Section 3.7  hereof
for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit.   

Related Assets   means, as to any Chassis: (a) all of any
Borrower s right, title and interest in, to and under, but not its
obligations under, such Chassis and any Lease, to the extent relating to such
Chassis, and all amendments, additions and supplements including, without
limitation, schedules, summary schedules and sub-schedules made or hereafter
made with respect thereto; (b) all income, payments and proceeds thereof,
including, without limitation (i) the residual values of such Chassis to be
realized through the exercise by Lessees of any purchase options under the
Leases, the proceeds of sale of such Chassis to third parties, payments received
from any other Person, either directly or indirectly, with respect to the
residual value of the Chassis (including, without limitation, payments under any
terminal rent adjustment clause) or payments under any physical damage insurance
policy or residual value insurance policy and (ii) each Certificate of
Title; (c) all of any Borrower s rights (but not its obligations) under any
agreements or other purchase documents with respect to the acquisition of any
related Lease or such Chassis to the extent, but only to the extent, that such
rights relate to such Lease or Chassis, including, without limitation,
(i) the right to proceeds arising from all dealer repurchase obligations,
if any, relating to any Lease or Chassis arising under any agreements with any
dealer from which any Borrower or any Affiliate thereof acquired such Chassis,
(ii) all warranty and indemnity provisions contained in or to be provided
pursuant to purchase agreements that relate to such Chassis and all claims
against the applicable manufacturer or distributor and (iii) any guaranty
given in connection with any related Lease, together with all rights, powers,
privileges, licenses, easements, options and other benefits of the beneficiary
of the guaranty thereunder and any collateral given as security therefor, to the
extent pertaining to such Lease; (d) any Borrower s rights under any
insurance policy to proceeds therefrom, including, without limitation, any
physical damage insurance policy or commercial general liability insurance
policy, any residual value insurance policy, any policy of comprehensive,
collision, public liability, physical damage, personal liability, general
liability, excess or umbrella liability, or other insurance policy maintained by
any Borrower, any Lessee or any Affiliate of any such Person to the extent that
any such policy covers or applies to any related Lease, such Chassis or the
ability of any Lessee to make required payments with respect to the related
Lease or such Chassis or any other Related Asset; (e) all monies due or to
become due in payment of amounts payable under any Lease, to the extent related
to the such Chassis; (f) the Lease File relating to such Chassis (including all
agreements and other documents a part thereof); (g) any maintenance agreement or
any agreement pursuant to which such Chassis or any related Lease was acquired
from a third party or any Affiliate, to the extent specifically relating to such
Lease; (h) any license or other certification of any Governmental Authority,
including, without limitation, any federal highway act certification; and (i)
all income, payments and proceeds of any of the foregoing, including, without
limitation, all present and future claims, demands, causes of and choses in
action in respect of any or all of the foregoing and all payments on or under
and all proceeds of every kind and nature whatsoever in respect of any or all of
the foregoing, including all proceeds of the conversion, voluntary or
involuntary, into cash or other liquid property, all cash proceeds, accounts,
accounts receivable, notes, drafts, acceptances, chattel paper, checks, deposit
accounts, insurance proceeds, condemnation awards, rights to payment of any and
every kind and other forms of obligations and receivables, instruments and other
property which at any time constitute all or part of or are included in the
proceeds of any of the foregoing.   

Release   means any release, spill, emission, leaking, pumping,
injection, deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, leaching, or migration in,
by, from or related to any real property (including all buildings, fixtures or
other improvements located thereon) or personal property owned, leased or
operated by Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries into the indoor or outdoor
environment, including the movement of any Hazardous Material through air, soil,
surface water, groundwater or property.   

Required Lenders   means, at any date, any combination of two
or more Lenders having (a) more than 50% of the Commitments of all Lenders, or
(b) if the Commitments have been terminated, more than 50% of the aggregate
outstanding amount of the Loans.   

Responsible Officer   means the chief executive officer, chief
financial officer, chief operating officer, president, executive vice president
or senior vice president of the Borrowers (or such other officer as is
acceptable to the Agent, in it discretion).   

Revolving Credit Facility   means the revolving credit facility
established pursuant to Sections 2.1 through 2.5 hereof.   

Revolving Credit Loan(s)   means any revolving loan made to the
Borrowers pursuant to  Section 2.1  hereof, and all such revolving loans
collectively as the context requires.   

Revolving Credit Notes   means the collective reference to the
Revolving Credit Notes made by the Borrowers payable to the order of each
Lender, substantially in the form of  Exhibit A-1  hereto, evidencing the
Revolving Credit Facility, and any amendments and modifications thereto, any
substitutes therefor, and any replacements, restatements, renewals or extension
thereof, in whole or in part;   Note   means any of such Notes.

Revolving Credit Termination Date   means the earliest of the
dates referred to in  Section 2.7(a)  hereof.   

S P   means Standard   Poor s Ratings
Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.   

Secured Hedging Agreement   means any Hedging Agreement between
the Borrowers and a Lender, or an Affiliate of a Lender, which is entered into,
in the ordinary course, for the purpose of securing any of the Loans.  

Servicing Standard   means the degree of diligence, prudence,
skill and care with which the Borrowers customarily service Chassis, Leases and
Related Assets held for their own account and, in any event, in a manner
consistent with the customary and usual practices of other servicers of
comparable contracts and equipment.   

Solvent   means, as to any Person on any particular date, that
any such Person (a) has capital sufficient to carry on its business and
transactions and all business and transactions in which it is about to engage
and is able to pay its debts as they mature, (b) owns property having a value,
both at fair valuation and at present fair saleable value, greater than the
amount required to pay its probable liabilities (including, without limitation,
contingencies), and (c) does not believe that it will incur debts or liabilities
beyond its ability to pay such debts or liabilities as they mature.   

Subsidiary   means Trac and any other present or future
Corporation a majority of whose Voting Stock shall at the time be owned directly
or indirectly or can otherwise be controlled by Interpool and/or by one or more
of the Subsidiaries of Interpool.   

Substitute Chassis   means a Chassis substituted for a Pledged
Chassis in accordance with Section 6.8 hereof.   

Substitute Lease   means a Lease for a Pledged Chassis
substituted in accordance with Section 6.8 hereof.   

Substitution Date   means, with respect to any Substitute
Chassis, the Business Day on which such Substitute Chassis becomes a Pledged
Chassis.   

Swing Line Commitment   means the obligation of the Swing Line
Lender to make Swing Line Loans to the Borrowers in a maximum principal amount
not exceeding at any time the amount set forth opposite the Swing Line
Lender s name on  Schedule 1  hereto as the same may be reduced or
modified at any time or from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof. On the
Closing Date, the Swing Line Commitment shall be Five Million Dollars
($5,000,000).   

Swing Line Facility   means the swing line facility established
under  Section 2.6  hereof.   

Swing Line Lender   means National City, in its capacity as
swing line lender hereunder.   

Swing Line Loan   means any swing line loan made by the Swing
Line Lender to a Borrower pursuant to  Section 2.6  hereof, and all such
swing line loans collectively as the context requires.   

Swing Line Note   means the Swing Line Note made by the
Borrowers payable to the order of the Swing Line Lender, substantially in the
form of  Exhibit A-2  hereto, evidencing the Swing Line Loans, and any
amendments and modifications thereto, any substitutes therefor, and any
replacements, restatements, renewals or extension thereof, in whole or in part.

Tangible Net Worth   means, as of any date of determination the
amount equal to (A) the amount of stockholders  equity and  warrant
liability  of Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries appearing in the
consolidated financial statements of Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are
available and prepared in accordance with GAAP,  less  (B) trademarks,
goodwill, covenants not to compete and all other assets classified as intangible
assets determined in accordance with GAAP,  plus  (C) the amount
representing Interpool s 9-7/8% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest
Debentures due 2027 and the related 9-7/8% Capital Securities of Interpool
Capital on the consolidated balance sheet of Interpool and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial
statements are available,  plus  (D) the amount representing the 9.25%
Convertible Redeemable Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2022 on the
consolidated balance sheet of Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of
the most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are
available,  plus  (E) any future subordinated debt of Interpool and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries,  plus (or minus)  (F) any adjustments to the
accounts of Interpool, both positive and negative, that results from SFAS
133/138. In this regard,  SFAS 133/138  means, Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 133    Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities  and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
138    Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain
Hedging Activities, an amendment to FASB Statement No. 133  issued by the
Financial Accounting Standard Board, as such pronouncement may be amended from
time to time in accordance with its terms.   

Taxes   shall have the meaning assigned thereto in
 Section 4.11(a)  hereof.   

Termination Event   means the occurrence of any of the
following: (a) a  Reportable Event  described in Section 4043 of
ERISA; (b) the withdrawal of the Borrowers, any Subsidiary or any ERISA
Affiliate from a Pension Plan during a plan year in which it was a
 substantial employer  as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (c)
the termination of a Pension Plan, the filing of a notice of intent to terminate
a Pension Plan or the treatment of a Pension Plan amendment as a termination
under Section 4041 of ERISA; (d) the institution of proceedings to terminate, or
the appointment of a trustee with respect to, any Pension Plan by the PBGC; (e)
any other event or condition which would constitute grounds under Section
4042(a) of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to
administer, any Pension Plan; (f) the partial or complete withdrawal of the
Borrowers, any Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan; (g)
the imposition of a Lien pursuant to Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of
ERISA; (h) any event or condition which results in the reorganization or
insolvency of a Multiemployer Plan under Sections 4241 or 4245 of ERISA; or (i)
any event or condition which results in the termination of a Multiemployer Plan
under Section 4041A of ERISA or the institution by PBGC of proceedings to
terminate a Multiemployer Plan under Section 4042 of ERISA.   

UCC   means the Uniform Commercial Code as the same may be in
effect in the State of New York on the date hereof; provided, however, that in
the event that by reason of mandatory provisions of law, any or all of the
attachment, perfection or priority of Agent s security interest in any
Collateral is governed by the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in a
jurisdiction other than the State of New York, the term  UCC  shall
mean the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in such other jurisdiction for
purposes of the provisions hereof relating to such attachment, perfection of
priority and for purposes of definitions related to such provisions.   

Uniform Customs   means, in the case of (a) standby Letters of
Credit, the International Standby Practices ISP98 (1998), International Chamber
of Commerce Publication No. 590, as the same may be amended or revised from time
to time, and (b) documentary Letters of Credit, the Uniform Customs and Practice
for Documentary Credits (1993 Revision), International Chamber of Commerce
Publication No. 500, as the same may be amended or revised from time to time.

United States   means the United States of America.   

Voting Stock   means, with respect to any Corporation, its
capital stock of any class having ordinary voting power for the election of the
members of the board of directors or other governing body of such Corporation
(other than stock having such power only by reason of the happening of a
contingency).   

Section 1.2   General . Unless otherwise specified, a reference
in this Agreement to a particular section, subsection, Schedule or Exhibit is a
reference to that section, subsection, Schedule or Exhibit of this Agreement.
Wherever from the context it appears appropriate, each term stated in either the
singular or plural shall include the singular and plural, and pronouns stated in
the masculine, feminine or neuter gender shall include the masculine, the
feminine and the neuter. Any reference herein to  Cleveland time 
shall refer to the applicable time of day in Cleveland, Ohio.   

Section 1.3   Other Definitions and Provisions.   

(a)   Use of Capitalized Terms . Unless otherwise defined
therein, all capitalized terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined
meanings when used in this Agreement, the Notes and the other Loan Documents or
any certificate, report or other document made or delivered pursuant to this
Agreement.  

(b)   Miscellaneous . The words hereof, herein and hereunder and
words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this
Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this
Agreement.  

ARTICLE II 
 REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY    

Section 2.1   Loans . Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, each Lender severally agrees to make Revolving Credit Loans to the
Borrowers from time to time from the Closing Date through the Revolving Credit
Termination Date as requested by the Borrowers in accordance with the terms of
 Section 2.2  hereof;  provided , that (a) the aggregate principal
amount of all outstanding Loans (after giving effect to any amount requested)
 plus  all outstanding L/C Obligations shall not exceed the lower of (i)
the Borrowing Base and (ii) the Aggregate Commitment; and (b) the principal
amount of outstanding Revolving Credit Loans (after giving effect to any amount
requested) from any Lender to the Borrowers  plus  such Lender s
Commitment Percentage of outstanding L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans shall
not at any time exceed such Lender s Commitment as set forth on  Schedule
1  hereto. Each Revolving Credit Loan by a Lender shall be in a principal
amount equal to such Lender s Commitment Percentage of the aggregate
principal amount of Revolving Credit Loan requested on such occasion. Subject to
the terms and conditions hereof, the Borrowers may borrow, repay and reborrow
Revolving Credit Loans hereunder until the Revolving Credit Termination Date.

Section 2.2   Procedure for Advances .  

(a)   Requests for Borrowing . The Borrowers shall give the
Agent irrevocable prior written notice in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B
(a  Notice of Borrowing ) not later than 11:00 a.m. (Cleveland time)
(i) on the same Business Day as each Base Rate Loan and Swing Line Loan and (ii)
at least three (3) Business Days before each LIBOR Rate Loan, of its intention
to borrow, specifying (A) the date of such borrowing, which shall be a Business
Day, (B) the amount and currency of such borrowing, which shall be in an amount
equal to the amount of the Aggregate Commitment then available to the Borrowers,
or if less, (x) with respect to Base Rate Loans, in an aggregate principal
amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof, (y) with
respect to LIBOR Rate Loans, in an aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000 or a
whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof and (z) and with respect to Swing
Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of
$100,000 in excess thereof, (C) whether the Loans are to be LIBOR Rate Loans,
Base Rate Loans, Swing Line Loans, or, if a combination thereof, the amount
allocated to each and (D) in the case of a LIBOR Rate Loan, the duration of the
Interest Period applicable thereto. Notices received after 11:00 a.m. (Cleveland
time) shall be deemed received on the next Business Day. The Agent shall
promptly notify the Lenders of each Notice of Borrowing.  

(b)   Authority of the Company . Each Borrower hereby
irrevocably authorizes and requests that Interpool execute all Notices of
Borrowing, make all elections as to interest rates and take any other actions
required of or permitted by the Borrowers under this Agreement, on its
respective behalf, in each case, with the same force and effect as if such
Borrower had executed such Notice of Borrowing, made such election or taken such
other action itself. Any request, application, or other communication by
Interpool may be relied on by the Agent and the Lenders, and any communication
by the Agent and Lenders shall be made to Interpool, and shall be binding on
each Borrower, jointly and severally, as fully as if such request, application
or other communication were made directly by or to each such
Borrower.  

(c)   Disbursement of Loans . Not later than 2:00 p.m. (Cleveland
time) on the proposed borrowing date: (i) each Lender will make available to the
Agent, for the account of the Borrowers, at the office of the Agent in funds
immediately available to the Agent, such Lender s Commitment Percentage of
the Revolving Credit Loans to be made on such borrowing date and (ii) the Swing
Line Lender will make available to the Borrowers, at the office of the Swing
Line Lender in funds immediately available to the Borrowers, the Swing Line
Loans to be made on such borrowing date. The Borrowers hereby irrevocably
authorize the Agent to disburse the proceeds of each borrowing requested
pursuant to this  Section 2.2  in immediately available funds by crediting
or wiring such proceeds to the deposit account of the Borrowers identified in
the most recent notice substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto (a
 Notice of Account Designation ) delivered by the Borrowers to the
Agent or may be otherwise agreed upon by the Borrowers and the Agent from time
to time. Subject to  Section 4.7  hereof, the Agent shall not be obligated
to disburse the portion of the proceeds of any Revolving Credit Loan requested
pursuant to this  Section 2.2  to the extent that any Lender has not made
available to the Agent its Commitment Percentage of such Loan. Revolving Credit
Loans to be made for the purpose of refunding Swing Line Loans shall be made by
the Lenders as provided in  Section 2.6  hereof.  

Section 2.3   Repayment of
Loans .   

(a)   Repayment of Loans . The Borrowers shall repay the
outstanding principal amount of (i) all Revolving Credit Loans in full on the
Revolving Credit Termination Date and (ii) all Swing Line Loans on the earlier
of demand or the Revolving Credit Termination Date, together with all accrued
but unpaid interest thereon and fees, costs and expenses.  

(b)   Mandatory Repayments .  

(i)  If at any time: (A) the outstanding principal amount of all Loans
exceeds the Aggregate Commitment  less  all outstanding L/C Obligations or
(B) the outstanding principal amount of all Loans exceeds the Borrowing Base
less all outstanding L/C Obligations, then the Borrowers shall immediately, by
payment to the Agent for the account of the Lenders, repay Loans and furnish
cash collateral as provided herein for, or repay, the L/C Obligations, in an
aggregate amount equal to such excess. The mandatory prepayments set forth in
this  Section 2.3(b)(i)  (and  Section 2.3(b)(iii) ) shall be applied:
 first  to reduce principal amounts outstanding under the Swing Line Loans;
 second  to pay any outstanding Reimbursement Obligations;  third  to
reduce principal amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Loans; and
 fourth  to provide cash collateral for any other L/C Obligations (such
cash collateral shall be applied in accordance with  Section 12.2(b) 
hereof). Each such repayment shall be accompanied by any amount required to be
paid pursuant to  Section 4.9  hereof. In the case of a payment required
under (B) above, the Borrowers may pledge Additional Chassis to the Agent and
deliver a new Borrowing Base Certificate to Agent not later than the date such
mandatory repayment is due, in which case the amount required to be repaid shall
be calculated on the basis of the Borrowing Base after giving effect to the
allocation of such Additional Chassis.  

(ii)  If at any time the outstanding amount of all Swing Line Loans
exceeds the Swing Line Commitment, then the Borrowers shall make a prepayment of
all Swing Line Loans in the amount of such excess. Each such repayment shall be
accompanied by any amount required to be paid pursuant to  Section 4.9 
hereof.  

(iii)  The Borrowers shall make prepayments of the Loans, in
accordance with the terms of  Section 2.3(b)(i) , in an amount equal to
100% of the amount of net proceeds received by the Borrowers from (A) all
sales, transfers or other dispositions of Pledged Chassis and (B) all property
or casualty insurance policies and/or any condemnation or similar payment in
connection with the Pledged Chassis, if, after giving effect to such sale,
transfer, disposition, casualty or condemnation, the outstanding principal
amount of all Loans exceeds the Borrowing Base less all outstanding L/C
Obligations.  

(c)   Optional Repayments . The Borrowers may at any time and
from time to time repay the Loans, in whole or in part, upon at least three (3)
Business Days irrevocable notice to the Agent with respect to LIBOR Rate Loans
and one (1) Business Day irrevocable notice with respect to Base Rate Loans, in
the form attached hereto as Exhibit D (a  Notice of Prepayment )
specifying the date and amount of repayment and whether the repayment is of
LIBOR Rate Loans or Base Rate Loans, or a combination thereof, and, if of a
combination thereof, the amount allocable to each. Upon receipt of such notice,
the Agent shall promptly notify each Lender. If any such notice is given, the
amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date set forth
in such notice. Partial repayments shall be in an aggregate amount of $1,000,000
or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof. Each such repayment shall be
accompanied by any amount required to be paid pursuant to  Section 4.9
 hereof.  

(d)   Limitation on Repayment of LIBOR Rate Loans . The
Borrowers may not repay any LIBOR Rate Loan on any day other than on the last
day of the Interest Period applicable thereto unless such repayment is
accompanied by any amount required to be paid pursuant to  Section 4.9 
hereof.  

Section
2.4   Notes .   

(a)   Revolving Credit Notes . Each Lender s Revolving
Credit Loans and the obligation of the Borrowers to repay such Revolving Credit
Loans shall be evidenced by a separate Revolving Credit Note executed by the
Borrowers payable to the order of each Lender representing the Borrowers 
obligation to pay such Lender s Commitment or, if less, the aggregate
unpaid principal amount of all Revolving Credit Loans made and to be made by
such Lender to the Borrowers hereunder, plus interest and all other fees,
charges and other amounts due thereon. Each Revolving Credit Note shall be dated
the date hereof and shall bear interest on the unpaid principal amount thereof
at the applicable interest rate per annum specified in  Section 4.1 
hereof.  

(b)   Swing Line Note . The Swing Line Loans and the obligations
of the Borrowers to repay such Swing Line Loans shall be evidenced by a Swing
Line Note executed by Borrowers payable to the order of the Swing Line Lender
representing the Borrowers  obligation to pay the Swing Line Lender s
Swing Line Commitment or, if less, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all
Swing Line Loans, plus interest on such principal amounts and all other fees,
charges and other amounts due thereon. The Swing Line Note shall be dated the
date hereof and shall bear interest on the unpaid principal amount thereof at
the applicable interest rate per annum specified in  Section 4.1 
hereof.  

Section 2.5   Permanent Reduction of the Aggregate
Commitment .  

(a)   Voluntary Reduction . The Borrowers shall have the right
at any time and from time to time, upon at least five (5) Business Days prior
written notice to the Agent, to permanently reduce, without premium or penalty,
(i) the Aggregate Commitment at any time or (ii) portions of the Aggregate
Commitment, from time to time, in an aggregate principal amount not less than
$5,000,000 or any whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof.  

(b)   Application of Reductions . Each permanent reduction
permitted or required pursuant to this  Section 2.5  shall be accompanied
by a payment of principal sufficient to reduce the aggregate outstanding
Extensions of Credit of the Lenders after such reduction to the Aggregate
Commitment as so reduced and if the Aggregate Commitment as so reduced is less
than the aggregate amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit, the Borrowers
shall be required to deposit in a cash collateral account opened by the Agent an
amount equal to the aggregate then undrawn and unexpired amount of such Letters
of Credit. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitment to zero shall be
accompanied by payment of all outstanding Obligations under the Revolving Credit
Facility (and furnishing of cash collateral satisfactory to the Agent for all
L/C Obligations) and shall result in the termination of the Aggregate Commitment
and Revolving Credit Facility. Such cash collateral shall be applied in
accordance with  Section 12.2(b)  hereof. If the reduction of the Aggregate
Commitment requires the repayment of any LIBOR Rate Loan, such repayment shall
be accompanied by any amount required to be paid pursuant to  Section 4.9 
hereof.  

(c)   Release of Collateral . At the time any voluntary or
mandatory prepayment or permanent reduction is completed pursuant to  Section
2.3  or this  Section 2.5 , the Borrowers may request in writing, in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement that the Agent release specific
Pledged Chassis and Related Assets, and, so long as (i) no Default or Event of
Default has occurred and is continuing, and (ii) the Borrowers make any
prepayment required under  Section 2.3(b)  in connection with such release,
the Agent shall, at the sole expense of the Borrowers, release such assets to
the Borrowers pursuant to Section 6.7 hereof.  

Section 2.6   Swing Line Loans .  

(a)   Availability . Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, the Swing Line Lender agrees to make Swing Line Loans to the
Borrowers from time to time from the Closing Date through, but not including,
the Revolving Credit Termination Date; provided, that the aggregate principal
amount of all Swing Line Loans (after giving effect to any amount requested),
shall not exceed the lesser of (i) the Aggregate Commitment less the sum of all
outstanding Revolving Credit Loans and the L/C Obligations, (ii) the Borrowing
Base less the sum of all outstanding Revolving Credit Loans and the L/C
Obligations and (iii) the Swing Line Commitment.  

(b)   Repayment . Unless otherwise agreed in writing, the
Borrowers shall repay the outstanding principal amount of each Swing Line Loan
on the earlier to occur of (i) the Revolving Credit Termination Date or (ii)
demand.  

(c)   Refunding .  

(i)  
Swing Line Loans shall be refunded by the Lenders on demand by the Swing Line
Lender. Such refundings shall be made by the Lenders in accordance with their
respective Commitment Percentages and shall thereafter be reflected as Revolving
Credit Loans of the Lenders on the books and records of the Agent. Each Lender
shall fund its respective Commitment Percentage of Revolving Credit Loans as
required to repay Swing Line Loans outstanding to the Swing Line Lender upon
demand by the Swing Line Lender but in no event later than 2:00 p.m. (Cleveland
time) on the next succeeding Business Day after such demand is made. No
Lender s obligation to fund its respective Commitment Percentage of a Swing
Line Loan shall be affected by any other Lender s failure to fund its
Commitment Percentage of a Swing Line Loan, nor shall any Lender s
Commitment Percentage be increased as a result of any such failure of any other
Lender to fund its Commitment Percentage.  

(ii)  
The Borrowers shall pay to the Swing Line Lender on demand the amount of such
Swing Line Loans to the extent amounts received from the Lenders are not
sufficient to repay in full the outstanding Swing Line Loans requested or
required to be refunded. In addition, the Borrowers hereby authorize the Agent
to charge any account maintained with the Swing Line Lender (up to the amount
available therein) in order to immediately pay the Swing Line Lender the amount
of such Swing Line Loans to the extent amounts received from the Lenders are not
sufficient to repay in full the outstanding Swing Line Loans requested or
required to be refunded. If any portion of any such amount paid to the Swing
Line Lender shall be recovered by or on behalf of the Borrowers from the Swing
Line Lender in bankruptcy or otherwise, the loss of the amount so recovered
shall be ratably shared among all the Lenders that have not reimbursed the Swing
Line Lender pursuant to clause (i) above in accordance with their respective
ratable share (unless the amounts so recovered by or on behalf of the Borrowers
pertain to a Swing Line Loan extended after the occurrence and during the
continuance of an Event of Default of which the Agent has received actual notice
and which such Event of Default has not been waived by the Required Lenders or
the Lenders, as applicable).  

(iii)  
Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to refund Swing Line
Loans in accordance with the terms of this  Section 2.6(c)  is absolute and
unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever,
including, without limitation, non-satisfaction of the conditions set forth in
 Article V  hereof. Further, each Lender agrees and acknowledges that if
prior to the refunding of any outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to this
 Section 2.6(c) , one of the events described in  Section 12.1(j)  or
 Section 12.1(k)  hereof shall have occurred, each Lender will, on the
date the applicable Revolving Credit Loan would have been made pursuant to
 Section 2.6(c)  hereof, purchase an undivided participating interest in
the Swing Line Loan to be refunded in an amount equal to its Commitment
Percentage of the aggregate amount of such Swing Line Loan. Each Lender will
immediately transfer to the Swing Line Lender, in immediately available funds,
the amount of its participation of any Swing Line Loan. Whenever, at any time
after the Swing Line Lender has received from any Lender such Lender s
participating interest in a Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender receives any
payment on account thereof, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender
its participating interest in such amount (appropriately adjusted, in the case
of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such
Lender s participating interest was outstanding and funded).  

Section 2.7   Termination of Credit Facility .  

(a)  
 Revolving Credit Facility . The Revolving Credit Facility shall terminate
on the earliest of: (i) September 9, 2010; (ii) the date of
termination by the Borrowers pursuant to  Section 2.5(c)  hereof; or (iii)
the date of termination by the Agent on behalf of the Lenders pursuant to
 Section 12.2(a)  hereof.  

(b)  
 Swing Line Facility . The Swing Line Commitment shall terminate on the
Revolving Credit Termination Date.  

Section 2.8   Use of Proceeds . The Borrowers shall use the
proceeds of the Extensions of Credit (a) to refinance the Existing Facility and
(b) for working capital and general corporate requirements of the Borrowers
(which may include the payment of fees and expenses incurred in connection with
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement).   

Section 2.9   Joint and Several Obligations . All Loans to the
Borrowers and all of the other Obligations of the Borrowers arising under this
Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall constitute one general joint and
several obligation of the Borrowers secured by all of the Collateral.  

Section 2.10   Incremental Commitment Increase . Subject to the
terms and conditions set forth below, prior to the Revolving Credit Termination
Date, the total aggregate Commitment may be increased once (the  Commitment
Increase ), at the request of the Borrowers and with the prior written
consent of the Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), provided
that the total Commitment Increase shall not exceed $25,000,000. The Borrowers
may request no more than one Commitment Increase and such request shall be for a
minimum of $5,000,000 (or increments of $2,500,000 in excess thereof). The
Commitment Increase shall be effectuated pursuant to the following procedures:

(a)  
Not less than 30 days prior to the proposed effective date of the Commitment
Increase, the Borrowers shall notify the Agent in writing of their request for a
Commitment Increase (an  Increase Request ), including the intended
date and amount thereto. All other terms and conditions applicable to such
Commitment Increase shall be the same as applicable to the Commitment in
general. Such Increase Request shall be accompanied by (i) a certificate from
the Borrowers certifying to the Agent that (A) no other approvals or consents
from any Person are required by any such Person except to the extent they have
been received and (B) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing, and (ii) financial projections in form and substance reasonably
acceptable to the Agent and demonstrating compliance with the Financial
Covenants throughout the term of this Agreement after giving effect to the
Commitment Increase.  

(b)  
The Agent shall promptly notify existing Lenders of such request by the
Borrowers and each such Lender shall have ten (10) Business Days in which to
notify the Agent in writing of such Lender s intent to participate in such
increase (each an  Existing Participating Lender ), and the amount of
the Commitment Increase such Existing Participating Lender is willing to commit
to (which amount shall be allocated to each Existing Participating Lender
according to their existing Pro Rata Shares should there be an over-commitment)
which notice shall be irrevocable once received by Agent. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in no event shall the Agent be obligated to agree to any Commitment
Increase nor shall any Lender be obligated to participate in any Commitment
Increase. Participation in any such Commitment Increase shall be completely
optional and at the sole discretion of each Lender.  

(c)  
To the extent that the entire Commitment Increase requested by the Borrowers and
consented to by Agent is not accepted by Existing Participating Lenders, the
Borrowers may propose to Agent additional new lenders acceptable to Agent and
Required Lenders ( New Lenders ) who agree to commit to that portion
of the Commitment Increase not accepted by Existing Participating Lenders. Thus,
any Commitment Increase shall be effected by an increase in any one or more of
the Existing Participating Lenders  Commitments, and/or by the addition of
the Commitments of New Lender(s) (in each case, the  Participating
Lenders ).  

(d)  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, final allocation of the Commitment Increase shall
be at the sole discretion of the Agent and the Borrowers; and each Participating
Lender shall commit to an amount not less than $1,000,000, but shall accept any
allocation amount designated by the Borrowers and the Agent that is equal to or
less than its proposed portion of the Commitment Increase.  

ARTICLE III 
 LETTER OF CREDIT FACILITY      

Section 3.1   L/C Commitment . Subject to the terms and
conditions hereof, the Issuing Lender, in reliance on the agreements of the
other Lenders set forth in  Section 3.6(a)  hereof, agrees to issue standby
and documentary letters of credit ( Letters of Credit ) for the
account of the Borrowers on any Business Day from the Closing Date through but
not including the Revolving Credit Termination Date in such form as may be
approved from time to time by the Issuing Lender;  provided , that the
Issuing Lender shall have no obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:

(a)  
there exists a Default or an Event of Default, or the issuance of such Letter of
Credit would give rise to a Default or an Event of Default; or  

(b)  
after giving effect to such issuance:  

(i)   the L/C Obligations would exceed
the L/C Commitment, or   

(ii)   the L/C Obligations, plus the
outstanding principal amount of Loans, would exceed either the Aggregate
Commitment or the Borrowing Base; or  

(iii)   such issuance would conflict
with, or cause the Issuing Lender or any L/C Participant to exceed any limits
imposed by, any Applicable Law.  

References herein to  issue  and derivations thereof with respect to
Letters of Credit shall also include extensions or modifications of any existing
Letters of Credit, unless the context otherwise requires.   

Section 3.2   Terms of Letters of Credit . Subject, without
limitation, to  Section 3.1 , each Letter of Credit shall:  

(a)  
be denominated in Dollars in a minimum amount of $500,000;  

(b)  
be issued to support obligations of the Borrowers, contingent or otherwise,
incurred in the ordinary course of business;  

(c)  
expire on a date which shall be no later than the earlier of:  

(i)   one (1) year from the date of
issuance, in the case of standby Letters of Credit;  

(ii)   one hundred eighty (180) days
from the date of issuance, in the case of documentary Letters of Credit;
or  

(iii)   in all cases, subject to
 Section 3.3 , five (5) Business Days prior to the Revolving Credit
Termination Date; and  

(d)  
be subject to the Uniform Customs and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith,
the laws of the State of New York.  

Section 3.3   Cash Collateral for Letters of Credit .  

(a)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of  Section 3.2  requiring that the final
expiry of each Letter of Credit be before the Revolving Credit Termination Date,
the Issuing Lender may issue, upon a Borrower s request (if required by a
proposed beneficiary), a Letter of Credit which by its terms may be extended
beyond the Revolving Credit Termination Date. With respect to any such Letter of
Credit issued hereunder, the Borrowers hereby agree that they will deliver on or
before the Revolving Credit Termination Date collateral, of the type and in the
amounts required by subparagraph (b) below and subject to subparagraph (c)
below, in an amount equal to one hundred two percent (102%) of the outstanding
undrawn amount of each such Letter of Credit.  

(b)  
On the Revolving Credit Termination Date or upon the occurrence of and during
the continuance of an Event of Default, the Agent may require (and in the case
of an Event of Default occurring under  Section 12.1(j)  or  Section
12.1(k)  it shall be required automatically) that the Borrowers deliver to
the Agent cash or U.S. Treasury Bills with maturities of not more than ninety
(90) days from the date of delivery (discounted in accordance with customary
banking practice to present value to determine amount) in an amount equal at all
times to one hundred two percent (102%) of the outstanding undrawn amount of all
Letters of Credit, such cash or U.S. Treasury Bills and all interest earned
thereon to constitute cash collateral for all such Letters of Credit. At such
time as such collateral is required to be and has not been deposited, the Agent
shall be entitled to liquidate such of the other Collateral as is necessary or
appropriate in its sole judgment so as to create such cash
collateral.  

(c)  
Any cash collateral deposited under subparagraph (b) above, and all interest
earned thereon, shall be held by the Agent and invested and reinvested at the
expense and the written direction of the Borrowers, in Eligible Investments with
maturities of no more than ninety (90) days from the date of
investment.  

Section 3.4   Procedure for Issuance of Letters of Credit . The
Borrowers may from time to time request that the Issuing Lender issue a Letter
of Credit, or request that a Letter of Credit be amended or extended, by
delivering to the Issuing Lender at the Agent s Office an Application
therefor, completed to the satisfaction of the Issuing Lender, and such other
certificates, documents and other papers and information as the Issuing Lender
may request. Upon receipt of any Application, the Issuing Lender shall process
such Application and the certificates, documents and other papers and
information delivered to it in connection therewith in accordance with its
customary procedures and shall, subject to  Section 3.1  and  Article
V  hereof, promptly issue the Letter of Credit requested thereby (but in no
event shall the Issuing Lender be required to issue any Letter of Credit earlier
than three (3) Business Days after its receipt of the Application therefor and
all such other certificates, documents and other papers and information relating
thereto) by issuing the original of such Letter of Credit to the beneficiary
thereof or as otherwise may be agreed by the Issuing Lender and the Borrowers.
The Issuing Lender shall promptly furnish to the Borrowers a copy of such Letter
of Credit and promptly notify each Lender of the issuance and upon request by
any Lender, furnish to such Lender a copy of such Letter of Credit and the
amount of such Lender s Letter of Credit participation therein.   

Section 3.5   Commissions and Other Charges .  

(a)  
The Borrowers shall pay to the Agent, for the account of the Issuing Lender and
the L/C Participants, a letter of credit fee with respect to each Letter of
Credit in an amount equal to the Applicable Margin for LIBOR Rate Loans, as of
the date such fee is payable, on a per annum basis multiplied by the average
daily face amount of such Letter of Credit during the period for which the fee
is paid. Such fee shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day
of each calendar quarter and on the Revolving Credit Termination Date, based on
the actual number of days in the quarter and a year of 360 days. The Agent
shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, distribute to the Issuing Lender
and the L/C Participants all such fees received by the Agent in accordance with
their respective Commitment Percentages. Upon the occurrence and during the
continuance of an Event of Default, the foregoing fee shall be increased to the
Applicable Margin for LIBOR Rate Loans plus two percent (2%) per
annum.  

(b)  
In addition to the foregoing fee, the Borrowers shall pay the Issuing Lender a
fronting fee of one-quarter of one percent (1/4%) on a per annum basis
multiplied by the face amount, on the payment date, of each Letter of Credit.
Such fee shall be payable annually in advance on the date of issuance and each
anniversary thereof.  

(c)  
The Borrowers shall pay to the Issuing Lender upon request all normal costs of
expenses of the Issuing Lender in connection with the issuance, transfer,
extension, modification or other administration of any Letter of
Credit.  

Section 3.6   L/C Participations .  

(a)  
The Issuing Lender irrevocably agrees to grant and hereby grants to each L/C
Participant, and, to induce the Issuing Lender to issue Letters of Credit
hereunder, each L/C Participant irrevocably agrees to accept and purchase and
hereby accepts and purchases from the Issuing Lender, on the terms and
conditions hereinafter stated, for such L/C Participant s own account and
risk an undivided interest equal to such L/C Participant s Commitment
Percentage in the Issuing Lender s obligations and rights under each Letter
of Credit issued hereunder and the amount of each draft paid by the Issuing
Lender thereunder. Each L/C Participant unconditionally and irrevocably agrees
with the Issuing Lender that, if a draft is paid under any Letter of Credit for
which the Issuing Lender is not reimbursed in full by the Borrowers in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such L/C Participant shall pay to
the Issuing Lender upon demand at the Issuing Lender s address for notices
specified herein an amount equal to such L/C Participant s Commitment
Percentage of the amount of such draft, or any part thereof, which is not so
reimbursed.  

(b)  
Upon becoming aware of any amount required to be paid by any L/C Participant to
the Issuing Lender pursuant to  Section 3.6(a)  hereof in respect of any
unreimbursed portion of any payment made by the Issuing Lender under any Letter
of Credit, the Issuing Lender shall notify each L/C Participant of the amount
and due date of such required payment and such L/C Participant shall pay to the
Issuing Lender the amount specified on the applicable due date. If any such
amount is paid to the Issuing Lender after the date such payment is due, such
L/C Participant shall pay to the Issuing Lender on demand, in addition to such
amount, the product of (i) such amount, times (ii) the daily average Federal
Funds Rate as determined by the Agent during the period from and including the
date such payment is due to the date on which such payment is immediately
available to the Issuing Lender, times (iii) a fraction the numerator of which
is the number of days that elapse during such period and the denominator of
which is 360. A certificate of the Issuing Lender with respect to any amounts
owing under this  Section 3.6(b)  shall be conclusive in the absence of
manifest error. With respect to payment to the Issuing Lender of the
unreimbursed amounts described in this  Section 3.6(b) , if the L/C
Participants receive notice that any such payment is due (A) prior to 1:00 p.m.
(Cleveland time) on any Business Day, such payment shall be due that Business
Day, and (B) after 1:00 p.m. (Cleveland time) on any Business Day, such payment
shall be due on the following Business Day.  

(c)  
Whenever, at any time after the Issuing Lender has made payment under any Letter
of Credit and has received from any L/C Participant its Commitment Percentage of
such payment in accordance with this  Section 3.6 , the Issuing Lender
receives any payment related to such Letter of Credit (whether directly from the
Borrowers or otherwise, or any payment of interest on account thereof, the
Issuing Lender will distribute to such L/C Participant its share thereof in
accordance with its applicable Commitment Percentage; provided, that in the
event that any such payment received by the Issuing Lender shall be required to
be returned by the Issuing Lender, such L/C Participant shall return to the
Issuing Lender the portion thereof previously distributed by the Issuing Lender
to it.  

Section 3.7   Reimbursement Obligation of the Borrowers . The
Borrowers agree to reimburse the Issuing Lender on each date on which the
Issuing Lender notifies the Borrowers of the date and amount of a draft paid
under any Letter of Credit for the amount of (a) such draft so paid or presented
purporting to be drawn and (b) any taxes, fees, charges or other costs or
expenses incurred by the Issuing Lender in connection with such payment. Each
such payment shall be made to the Issuing Lender at its address for notices
specified herein in lawful money of the United States and in immediately
available funds. Interest shall be payable on any and all amounts remaining
unpaid by the Borrowers under this  Article III  from the date such amounts
are paid under the Letter of Credit (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration
or otherwise) until payment in full at the rate which would be payable on any
outstanding Base Rate Loans which were then overdue. If the Borrowers fail to
timely reimburse the Issuing Lender on the date the Borrowers receive the notice
referred to in this  Section 3.7 , the Borrowers shall be deemed to have
timely given a Notice of Borrowing hereunder to the Agent requesting the Lenders
to make a Base Rate Loan on such date in an amount equal to the amount of such
drawing and, regardless of whether or not the conditions precedent specified in
 Article V  hereof have been satisfied, the Lenders shall make Base Rate
Loans in such amount, the proceeds of which shall be applied to reimburse the
Issuing Lender for the amount of the related drawing and costs and expenses.

Section 3.8   Obligations Absolute . The Borrowers 
obligations under this  Article III  (including, without limitation, the
Reimbursement Obligation) shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all
circumstances and irrespective of any set-off, counterclaim or defense to
payment which any Borrower may have or have had against the Issuing Lender or
any beneficiary of a Letter of Credit. The Borrowers also agree with the Issuing
Lender that the Issuing Lender shall not be responsible for, and the
Borrowers  Reimbursement Obligation under  Section 3.7  hereof shall
not be affected by, among other things, the validity or genuineness of documents
or of any endorsements thereon, even though such documents shall in fact prove
to be invalid, fraudulent or forged, or any dispute between or among any
Borrower and any beneficiary of any Letter of Credit or any other party to which
such Letter of Credit may be transferred, or any claims whatsoever of any
Borrower against any beneficiary of such Letter of Credit or any such
transferee. The Borrowers assume all risks of the acts or omissions of the
beneficiary of each Letter of Credit with respect to the use of the Letter of
Credit or with respect to the beneficiary s obligations to any Borrower.
The Issuing Lender shall not be liable for any error, omission, interruption or
delay in transmission, dispatch or delivery of any message or advice, however
transmitted, in connection with any Letter of Credit, except for errors or
omissions caused by the Issuing Lender s gross negligence or willful
misconduct. The Borrowers agree that any action taken or omitted by the Issuing
Lender under or in connection with any Letter of Credit or the related drafts or
documents, if done in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct and
in accordance with the standards of care specified in the Uniform Customs and,
to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the UCC shall be binding on the
Borrowers and shall not result in any liability of the Issuing Lender to any
Borrower. The responsibility of the Issuing Lender to the Borrowers in
connection with any draft presented for payment under any Letter of Credit
shall, in addition to any payment obligation expressly provided for in such
Letter of Credit, be limited to determining that the documents (including each
draft) delivered under such Letter of Credit in connection with such presentment
are in conformity with such Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in
limitation of the foregoing, Agent may accept facially conforming documents
without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or
information to the contrary.   

Section 3.9   General Terms of Documentary Letters of
Credit .  

(a)  
The Borrowers agree to procure or to cause the beneficiaries of each documentary
Letter of Credit to procure promptly any necessary import and export or other
licenses for the import or export or shipping of any goods referred to in or
pursuant to a Letter of Credit and to comply and to cause the beneficiaries to
comply with all foreign and domestic governmental regulations with respect to
the shipment and warehousing of such goods or otherwise relating to or affecting
such Letter of Credit, including, without limitation, governmental regulations
pertaining to transactions involving designated foreign countries or their
nationals, and to furnish such certificates in that respect as the Issuing
Lender or the Agent may at any time reasonably require, and to keep such goods
adequately covered by insurance in amounts, with carriers and for such risks as
shall be customary in the industry and to cause the Issuing Lender s
interest to be endorsed on such insurance and to furnish bank at its request
with reasonable evidence thereof. Should such insurance (or lack thereof) upon
said goods for any reason not be reasonably satisfactory to the Issuing Lender
or the Agent, the Issuing Lender or the Agent may (but is not obligated to)
obtain, after notice, at the Borrowers  expense, insurance satisfactory to
the Issuing Lender or the Agent.  

(b)  
In connection with each documentary Letter of Credit, neither the Issuing
Lender, nor any correspondent, nor any Lender shall be responsible for: (i) the
existence, character, quality, quantity, condition, packing, value or delivery
of the property purporting to be represented by documents; (ii) any difference
in character, quality, condition or value of the property from that expressed in
documents; (iii) the time, place, manner or order in which shipment of the
property is made; (iv) partial or incomplete shipment referred to in such Letter
of Credit; (v) the character, adequacy or responsibility of any insurer, or any
other risk connected with insurance other than insurance procured by the Issuing
Lender or the Agent; (vi) any deviation from instructions, delay, default or
fraud by the beneficiary or anyone else in connection with the property or the
shipping thereof; (vii) the solvency, responsibility or relationship to the
property of any party issuing any documents in connection with the property;
(viii) delay in arrival or failure to arrive of either the property or any of
the documents relating thereto; (ix) delay in giving or failure to give notice
of arrival or any other notice; (x) any breach of contract between the Letter of
Credit beneficiaries and the Borrowers; (xi) any laws, customs, and regulations
which may be effective in any jurisdiction where any negotiation and/or payment
of such Letter of Credit occurs; (xii) failure of documents (other than
documents required by the terms of the Letter of Credit) to accompany any draft
at negotiation; or (xiii) failure of any entity to note the amount of any
document or draft on the reverse of such Letter of Credit or to surrender or to
take up such Letter of Credit or to forward documents other than documents
required by the terms of the Letter of Credit. In connection with each Letter of
Credit, the Issuing Lender shall not be responsible for any error, neglect or
default of any of their correspondents. None of the above shall affect, impair
or prevent the vesting of any of the Issuing Lender s rights or powers
hereunder. If a Letter of Credit provides that payment is to be made by the
Issuing Lender s correspondent, neither the Issuing Lender nor such
correspondent shall be responsible for the failure of any of the documents
specified in such Letter of Credit to come into the Issuing Lender s hands,
or for any delay in connection therewith, and the Borrowers  obligation to
make reimbursements shall not be affected by such failure or delay in the
receipt of any such documents.  

(c)  
To the extent not inconsistent with this Agreement, the Uniform Customs are
hereby made a part of this Agreement with respect to obligations in connection
with each documentary Letter of Credit.  

Section 3.10   Effect of Application . To the extent that any
provision of any Application related to any Letter of Credit is inconsistent
with the provisions of this  Article III , the provisions of this
 Article III  shall apply.   

ARTICLE IV 
 GENERAL LOAN PROVISIONS    

Section 4.1   Interest .  

(a)    Interest Rate Options.  Subject to the provisions of this
 Section 4.1 , at the election of the Borrowers, the aggregate principal
balance of (i) the Revolving Credit Loans or any portion thereof shall bear
interest at (A) the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin and/or (B) the LIBOR
Rate plus the Applicable Margin; provided that the LIBOR Rate shall not be
available until three (3) Business Days after the Closing Date, and (ii) the
Swing Line Loans shall bear interest at the Base Rate plus the Applicable
Margin. The Borrowers shall select the rate of interest and Interest Period, if
any, applicable to any Loan at the time a Notice of Borrowing is given pursuant
to  Section 2.2(a)  hereof or at the time a Notice of
Conversion/Continuation is given pursuant to  Section 4.2  hereof. Each
Loan or portion thereof bearing interest based on the Base Rate shall be a
 Base Rate Loan,  each Loan or portion thereof bearing interest based
on the LIBOR Rate shall be a  LIBOR Rate Loan.  Any Revolving Credit
Loan or any portion thereof as to which the Borrowers have not duly specified an
interest rate as provided herein shall be deemed a Base Rate Loan.  

(b)  
 Interest Periods.  In connection with each LIBOR Rate Loan, the Borrowers,
by giving notice at the times described in  Section 4.1(a)  hereof, shall
elect an interest period (each, an  Interest Period ) to be applicable
to such Loan, which Interest Period shall be a period of one (1), two (2), three
(3), or six (6) months with respect to such Loan; provided that:  

(i)  the Interest Period shall commence
on the date of advance of or conversion to any LIBOR Rate Loan and, in the case
of immediately successive Interest Periods, each successive Interest Period
shall commence on the date on which the next preceding Interest Period
expires;  

(ii)  if any Interest Period would
otherwise expire on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall
expire on the next succeeding Business Day; provided, that if any Interest
Period with respect to a LIBOR Rate Loan would otherwise expire on a day that is
not a Business Day but is a day of the month after which no further Business Day
occurs in such month, such Interest Period shall expire on the next preceding
Business Day;  

(iii)  any Interest Period with respect
to a LIBOR Rate Loan that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month
(or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar
month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of
the relevant calendar month at the end of such Interest Period;  

(iv)  no Interest Period shall extend
beyond the Revolving Credit Termination Date; and  

(v)  there shall be no more than six (6)
different Interest Periods applicable to LIBOR Rate Loans outstanding at any
time.  

(c)  
 Default Rate . Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event
of Default, (i) the Borrowers shall no longer have the option to request LIBOR
Rate Loans, (ii) all outstanding LIBOR Rate Loans shall bear interest at a rate
per annum two percent (2%) in excess of the rate then applicable to LIBOR Rate
Loans until the end of the applicable Interest Period and thereafter at a rate
equal to two percent (2%) in excess of the rate then applicable to Base Rate
Loans, and (iii) all outstanding Base Rate Loans shall bear interest at a rate
per annum equal to two percent (2%) in excess of the rate then applicable to
Base Rate Loans. Interest shall continue to accrue on the Loans at the rates set
forth above after the filing by or against the Borrowers of any petition seeking
any relief in bankruptcy or under any act or law pertaining to insolvency or
debtor relief, whether state, federal or foreign, as well as before and after
any judgment.  

(d)  
 Interest Payment and Computation . Interest on each Base Rate Loan shall
be payable in arrears on the last Business Day of each calendar quarter
commencing September 30, 2005; and interest on each LIBOR Rate Loan shall be
payable on the last day of each Interest Period applicable thereto, and if such
Interest Period extends over three (3) months, at the end of each three (3)
month interval during such Interest Period. Interest on LIBOR Rate Loans and all
fees payable hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and
assessed for the actual number of days elapsed and interest on Base Rate Loans
shall be computed on the basis of a 365 or 366 day year, as applicable, and
assessed for the actual number of days elapsed.  

(e)  
 Maximum Rate . In no contingency or event whatsoever shall the aggregate
of all amounts deemed interest charged or collected pursuant to the terms of
this Agreement or any Loan Document exceed the highest rate permissible under
any Applicable Law which a court of competent jurisdiction shall, in a final
determination, deem applicable hereto. In the event that such a court determines
that the Lenders have charged or received interest hereunder in excess of the
highest applicable rate, the rate in effect hereunder shall automatically be
reduced to the maximum rate permitted by Applicable Law and the Lenders shall,
at the Agent s option, (i) promptly refund to the Borrowers any interest
received by Lenders in excess of the maximum lawful rate or (ii) apply such
excess to the principal balance of the Obligations. It is the intent hereof that
the Borrowers not pay or contract to pay, and that neither the Agent nor any
Lender receive or contract to receive, directly or indirectly in any manner
whatsoever, interest in excess of that which may be paid by the Borrowers under
Applicable Law.  

Section 4.2   Notice and Manner of Conversion or Continuation of
Loans . Provided that no Event of Default has occurred and is then
continuing, the Borrowers shall have the option to (a) convert, at any time
following the third Business Day after the Closing Date, all or any portion of
its outstanding Base Rate Loans in a principal amount equal to $1,000,000 or any
whole multiple of $5,000,000 in excess thereof into one or more LIBOR Rate Loans
and (b) upon the expiration of any Interest Period, (i) convert all or any part
of its outstanding LIBOR Rate Loans in a principal amount equal to $5,000,000 or
a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof into Base Rate Loans and (ii)
continue such LIBOR Rate Loans as LIBOR Rate Loans. Whenever the Borrowers
desire to convert or continue Loans as provided above, the Borrowers shall give
the Agent irrevocable prior written notice in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit E (a  Notice of Conversion/Continuation ) not later than 11:00
a.m. (Cleveland time) three (3) Business Days before the day on which a proposed
conversion or continuation of such Loan is to be effective specifying (A) the
Loans to be converted or continued, and, in the case of any LIBOR Rate Loan to
be converted or continued, the last day of the Interest Period therefor, (B) the
effective date of such conversion or continuation (which shall be a Business
Day), (C) the principal amount of such Loans to be converted or continued, and
(D) the Interest Period to be applicable to such converted or continued LIBOR
Rate Loan. The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of such Notice of
Conversion/Continuation.   

Section 4.3   Fees .  

(a)  
 Commitment Fee . The Borrowers shall pay to the Agent, for the account of
the Lenders, a non-refundable commitment fee in quarterly installments in
arrears at a rate per annum equal to the applicable percentage(s) specified in
the definition of Applicable Margin on the average daily unused portion of the
Aggregate Commitment on the last Business Day of each calendar quarter,
commencing September 30, 2005, and on the Revolving Credit Termination
Date.  

(b)  
 Agent s and Other Fees . In order to compensate the Agent for
structuring and syndicating the Loans and for its obligations hereunder, the
Borrowers agree to pay to the Agent, for its account, the fees set forth in the
Fee Letter.  

Section 4.4   Manner of Payment . Each payment by the Borrowers
on account of the principal of or interest on the Loans or of any fee,
commission or other amounts (including, without limitation, the Reimbursement
Obligation) payable to the Lenders under this Agreement or any Note shall be
made not later than 1:00 p.m. (Cleveland time) on the date specified for payment
under this Agreement to the Agent at the Agent s Office for the account of
the Lenders (other than as set forth below) pro rata in accordance with their
respective Commitment Percentages (except as specified below), in Dollars, in
immediately available funds and shall be made without any set-off, counterclaim
or deduction whatsoever. Any payment received after such time but before 2:00
p.m. (Cleveland time) on such day shall be deemed a payment on such date for the
purposes of  Section 12.1  hereof, but for all other purposes shall be
deemed to have been made on the next succeeding Business Day. Any payment
received after 2:00 p.m. (Cleveland time) shall be deemed to have been made on
the next succeeding Business Day for all purposes. Upon receipt by the Agent of
each such payment, the Agent shall distribute to each Lender at its address for
notices set forth herein its pro rata share of such payment in accordance with
such Lender s Commitment Percentage (except as specified below) and shall
wire advice of the amount of such credit to each Lender. Each payment to the
Agent of the Issuing Lender s fees or L/C Participants  commissions
shall be made in like manner, but for the account of the Issuing Lender or the
L/C Participants, as the case may be. Each payment to the Agent of Agent s
fees or expenses shall be made for the account of the Agent, and any amount
payable to any Lender under  Sections 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.11 or 14.2  hereof
shall be paid to the Agent for the account of the applicable Lender. Subject to
 Section 4.1(b)(ii)  hereof, if any payment under this Agreement or any
Loan Document shall be specified to be made upon a day which is not a Business
Day, it shall be made on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day, and
such extension of time shall in such case be included in computing any interest
if payable along with such payment.   

Section 4.5   Credit of Payments and Proceeds . In the event that
the Borrowers shall fail to pay any of the Obligations when due and the
Obligations have been accelerated pursuant to  Section 12.2  hereof, all
payments received by the Lenders upon the Loans and other Obligations and all
net proceeds from the enforcement of the Loans and other Obligations shall be
applied first to all expenses then due and payable by the Borrowers hereunder,
then to all indemnity obligations then due and payable by the Borrowers
hereunder, then to all Agent s and Issuing Lender s fees then due and
payable, then to all commitment and other fees and commissions then due and
payable, then to accrued and unpaid interest on the Swing Line Loan to the Swing
Line Lender, then to the principal amount outstanding, under the Swing Line Loan
to the Swing Line Lender, then to accrued and unpaid interest on the Revolving
Credit Loans, the Reimbursement Obligation and any termination payments due in
respect of any Secured Hedging Agreement (pro rata in accordance with all such
amounts due), then to the principal amount of the Revolving Credit Loans and
Reimbursement Obligation (pro rata in accordance with all such amounts due) and
then to the cash collateral account described in  Section 12.2(b)  hereof
to the extent of any L/C Obligations then outstanding, in that order.  

Section 4.6    Adjustments . If any Lender (a  Benefited
Lender ) shall at any time receive any payment of all or part of the
Obligations owing to it, or interest thereon, or if any Lender shall at any time
receive any collateral in respect to the Obligations owing to it (whether
voluntarily or involuntarily, by set-off or otherwise) in a greater proportion
than any such payment to and collateral received by any other Lender, if any, in
respect of the Obligations owing to such other Lender, or interest thereon, such
Benefited Lender shall purchase for cash from the other Lenders such portion of
each such other Lender s Extensions of Credit, or shall provide such other
Lenders with the benefits of any such collateral, or the proceeds thereof, as
shall be necessary to cause such Benefited Lender to share the excess payment or
benefits of such collateral or proceeds ratably with each of the Lenders;
provided, that if all or any portion of such excess payment or benefits is
thereafter recovered from such Benefited Lender, such purchase shall be
rescinded, and the purchase price and benefits returned to the extent of such
recovery, but without interest. The Borrowers agree that each Lender so
purchasing a portion of another Lender s Extensions of Credit may exercise
all rights of payment (including, without limitation, rights of set-off) with
respect to such portion as fully as if such Lender were the direct holder of
such portion.   

Section 4.7   Nature of Obligations of Lenders Regarding Extensions
of Credit; Assumption by the Agent . The obligations of the Lenders under
this Agreement to make the Loans and issue or participate in Letters of Credit
are several and are not joint or joint and several. Unless the Agent shall have
received notice from a Lender prior to a proposed borrowing date that such
Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lender s ratable portion
of the amount to be borrowed on such date (which notice shall not release such
Lender of its obligations hereunder), the Agent may assume that such Lender has
made such portion available to the Agent on the proposed borrowing date in
accordance with  Section 2.2(c)  hereof, and the Agent may, in reliance
upon such assumption, make available to the Borrowers on such date a
corresponding amount. If such amount is made available to the Agent on a date
after such borrowing date, such Lender shall pay to the Agent on demand an
amount, until paid, equal to the product of (a) the amount not made available by
such Lender in accordance with the terms hereof, times (b) the daily average
Federal Funds Rate during such period as determined by the Agent, times (c) a
fraction the numerator of which is the number of days that elapse from and
including such borrowing date to the date on which such amount not made
available by such Lender in accordance with the terms hereof shall have become
immediately available to the Agent and the denominator of which is 360. A
certificate of the Agent with respect to any amounts owing under this  Section
4.7  shall be conclusive, absent manifest error. If such Lender s
Commitment Percentage of such borrowing is not made available to the Agent by
such Lender within three (3) Business Days of such borrowing date, the Agent
shall be entitled to recover such amount made available by the Agent with
interest thereon at the rate per annum applicable to Base Rate Loans hereunder,
on demand, from the Borrowers. The failure of any Lender to make available its
Commitment Percentage of any Loan requested by the Borrowers shall not relieve
it or any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its
Commitment Percentage of such Loan available on the borrowing date, but no
Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make its
Commitment Percentage of such Loan available on the borrowing date.   

Section 4.8   Changed Circumstances .  

(a)  
 Circumstances Affecting LIBOR Rate Availability . If with respect to any
Interest Period the Agent or any Lender (after consultation with Agent) shall
determine that, by reason of circumstances affecting the foreign exchange and
interbank markets generally, deposits in Eurodollars in the applicable amounts
are not being quoted via Telerate Page 3750 or offered to the Agent or such
Lender for such Interest Period, then the Agent shall forthwith give notice
thereof to the Borrowers. Thereafter, until the Agent notifies the Borrowers
that such circumstances no longer exist, the obligation of the Lenders to make
LIBOR Rate Loans and the right of the Borrowers to convert any Loan to or
continue any Loan as a LIBOR Rate Loan shall be suspended, and the Borrowers
shall repay in full (or cause to be repaid in full) the then outstanding
principal amount of each such LIBOR Rate Loan, together with accrued interest
thereon, on the last day of the then current Interest Period applicable to such
LIBOR Rate Loan or convert the then outstanding principal amount of each such
LIBOR Rate Loan to a Base Rate Loan as of the last day of such Interest
Period.  

(b)  
 Laws Affecting LIBOR Rate Availability . If, after the date hereof, the
introduction of, or any change in, any Applicable Law or any change in the
interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority, central
bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration
thereof, or compliance by any Lender (or any of their respective Lending
Offices) with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law)
of any such Authority, central bank or comparable agency, shall make it unlawful
or impossible for any of the Lenders (or any of their respective Lending
Offices) to honor its obligations hereunder to make or maintain any LIBOR Rate
Loan, such Lender shall promptly give notice thereof to the Agent and the Agent
shall promptly give notice to the Borrowers and the other Lenders. Thereafter,
until the Agent notifies the Borrowers that such circumstances no longer exist,
(i) the obligations of the Lenders to make LIBOR Rate Loans, and the right of
the Borrowers to convert any Loan or continue any Loan as a LIBOR Rate Loan
shall be suspended and thereafter the Borrowers may select only Base Rate Loans
hereunder, and (ii) if any of the Lenders may not lawfully continue to maintain
a LIBOR Rate Loan to the end of the then current Interest Period applicable
thereto as a LIBOR Rate Loan, the applicable LIBOR Rate Loan shall immediately
be converted to a Base Rate Loan for the remainder of such Interest Period.
Lenders shall determine the applicability of, and the amount due under, this
 Section 4.8(b)  consistent with the manner in which they apply similar
provisions and calculate similar amounts payable to them by other borrowers
having in their credit agreements provisions comparable to this  Section
4.8(b) , and, if requested by the Borrowers, a certificate of any such Lender
setting forth the basis for determining such amount or amounts necessary to
compensate such Lender shall be forwarded to the Borrowers through the Agent and
any such certificate shall be conclusively presumed to be correct save for
manifest error.  

(c)  
 Increased Costs . If, after the date hereof, the introduction of, or any
change in, any Applicable Law, or in the interpretation or administration
thereof by any Governmental Authority, central bank or comparable agency charged
with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any of the
Lenders (or any of their respective Lending Offices) with any request or
directive (whether or not having the force of law) of such Authority, central
bank or comparable agency:  

(i)  shall subject any of the Lenders
(or any of their respective Lending Offices) to any tax, duty or other charge
with respect to any Loan, Note, Letter of Credit or Application or shall change
the basis of taxation of payments to any of the Lenders (or any of their
respective Lending Offices) of the principal of or interest on any Loan, Note,
Letter of Credit or Application or any other amounts due under this Agreement in
respect thereof (except for changes in the rate of tax on the overall net income
of any of the Lenders or any of their respective Lending Offices imposed by the
jurisdiction in which such Lender is organized or is or should be qualified to
do business or such Lending Office is located); or  

(ii)  shall impose, modify or deem
applicable any reserve (including, without limitation, any imposed by the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), special deposit, insurance or
capital or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the
account of, or credit extended by any of the Lenders (or any of their respective
Lending Offices) or shall impose on any of the Lenders (or any of their
respective Lending Offices) or the foreign exchange and interbank markets any
other condition affecting any LIBOR Rate Loan; and the result of any of the
foregoing is to increase the costs to any of the Lenders of maintaining any
LIBOR Rate Loan or issuing or participating in Letters of Credit or to reduce
the yield or amount of any sum received or receivable by any of the Lenders
under this Agreement or under the Notes in respect of a LIBOR Rate Loan or
Letter of Credit or Application, then such Lender shall promptly notify the
Agent, and the Agent shall promptly notify the Borrowers of such fact and demand
compensation therefor and, within fifteen (15) days after such notice by the
Agent, the Borrowers shall pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts
as will compensate such Lender or Lenders for such increased cost or reduction.
The Agent will promptly notify the Borrowers of any event of which it has
knowledge which will entitle such Lender to compensation pursuant to this
 Section 4.8(c) ; provided, that the Agent shall incur no liability
whatsoever to the Lenders or the Borrowers in the event it fails to do so. If
requested by the Borrowers, a certificate of such Lender setting forth the basis
for determining such amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender shall
be forwarded to the Borrowers through the Agent and any such certificate shall
be conclusively presumed to be correct save for manifest error. The amount of
such compensation shall be determined, by the applicable Lender, based upon the
assumption that such Lender funded its Commitment Percentage of the LIBOR Rate
Loans in the London interbank market and using any reasonable attribution or
averaging methods which such Lender deems appropriate and practical in its sole
discretion. Lenders shall determine the applicability of, and the amount due
under, this  Section 4.8  consistent with the manner in which they apply
similar provisions and calculate similar amounts payable to them by other
borrowers having in their credit agreements provisions comparable to this
 Section 4.8 .  

Section 4.9   Indemnity . The Borrowers hereby indemnify each of
the Lenders against any loss or expense which may arise or be attributable to
each Lender s obtaining, liquidating or employing deposits or other funds
acquired to effect, fund or maintain any Loan (a) as a consequence of any
failure by the Borrowers to make any payment when due of any amount due
hereunder in connection with a LIBOR Rate Loan, (b) due to any failure of the
Borrowers to borrow on a date specified therefor in a Notice of Borrowing or
Notice of Continuation/Conversion or (c) due to any payment, prepayment or
conversion of any LIBOR Rate Loan on a date other than the last day of the
Interest Period therefor. The amount of such loss or expense shall be
determined, in the applicable Lender s sole discretion, based upon the
assumption that such Lender funded its Commitment Percentage of the LIBOR Rate
Loans in the London interbank market and using any reasonable attribution or
averaging methods which such Lender deems appropriate and practical. A
certificate of such Lender setting forth the basis for determining such amount
or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender shall be forwarded to the
Borrowers through the Agent and shall be conclusively presumed to be correct
save for manifest error. Lenders shall determine the applicability of, and the
amount due under, this  Section 4.9  consistent with the manner in which
they apply similar provisions and calculate similar amounts payable to them by
other borrowers having in their credit agreements provisions comparable to this
 Section 4.9    .    

Section 4.10   Capital Requirements . If either (a) the
introduction of, or any change in, or in the interpretation of, any Applicable
Law or (b) compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or
comparable agency or other Governmental Authority (whether or not having the
force of law), has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on
the capital of, or has affected or would affect the amount of capital required
to be maintained by, any Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender as a
consequence of, or with reference to the Commitments and other commitments of
this type, below the rate which the Lender or such other corporation could have
achieved but for such introduction, change or compliance, then within five (5)
Business Days after written demand by any such Lender, the Borrowers shall pay
to such Lender from time to time as specified by such Lender additional amounts
sufficient to compensate such Lender or other corporation for such reduction.
Lenders shall determine the applicability of, and the amount due under, this
 Section 4.10  consistent with the manner in which they apply similar
provisions and calculate similar amounts payable to them by other borrowers
having in their credit agreements provisions comparable to this  Section
4.10 , and, if requested by the Borrowers, a certificate of such Lender
setting forth the basis for determining such amount or amounts necessary to
compensate such Lender shall be forwarded to the Borrowers through the Agent and
any such certificate shall be conclusively presumed to be correct save for
manifest error.   

Section 4.11   Taxes .  

(a)  
 Payments Free and Clear . Any and all payments by the Borrowers hereunder
or under any Note or Letter of Credit shall be made free and clear of and
without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts,
deductions, charges or withholding, and all liabilities with respect thereto,
excluding, (i) in the case of each Lender and the Agent, income and franchise
taxes imposed by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender or the
Agent (as the case may be) is organized or is or should be qualified to do
business or any political subdivision thereof (excluding taxes imposed on the
basis of net income) and (ii) in the case of each Lender, income and franchise
taxes imposed by the jurisdiction of such Lender s Lending Office or any
political subdivision thereof (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts,
deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities being hereinafter referred to
as  Taxes ). If the Borrowers shall be required by law or applicable
treaty to deduct and withhold any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable
hereunder or under any Note or Letter of Credit to any Lender or the Agent, (A)
the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all
required deductions and withholdings (including, without limitation, deductions
and withholdings applicable to additional sums payable under this
 Section 4.11 ) such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) receives
an amount equal to the amount such party would have received had no such
deductions been made, (B) the Borrowers shall make such deductions and
withholdings, (C) the Borrowers shall pay the full amount deducted and withheld
to the relevant taxing authority or other authority in accordance with
Applicable Law, and (D) the Borrowers shall deliver to the Agent evidence of
such payment to the relevant taxing authority or other authority in the manner
provided in  Section 4.11(d)  hereof.  

(b)  
 Stamp and Other Taxes . In addition, the Borrowers shall pay any present
or future stamp, registration, recordation or documentary taxes or any other
similar fees or charges or excise or property taxes, levies of the United States
or any state or political subdivision thereof or any applicable foreign
jurisdiction which arise from any payment made hereunder or from the execution,
delivery or registration of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement, the
Loans, the Letters of Credit, the other Loan Documents, or the perfection of any
rights or security interest in respect thereto (hereinafter referred to as
 Other Taxes ).  

(c)  
 Indemnity . The Borrowers shall indemnify each Lender and the Agent for
the full amount of Taxes and Other Taxes (including, without limitation, any
Taxes and Other Taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this
 Section 4.11 ) paid by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be)
and any liability (including, without limitation, penalties, interest and
expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes
or Other Taxes were correctly or legally asserted. Such indemnification shall be
made within thirty (30) days from the date such Lender or the Agent (as the case
may be) makes written demand therefor. If requested by the Borrowers, a
certificate of such Lender setting forth the basis for determining such amount
or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender shall be forwarded to the
Borrowers through the Agent and any such certificate shall be conclusively
presumed to be correct save for manifest error.  

(d)  
 Evidence of Payment . Within thirty (30) days after the date of any
payment of Taxes or Other Taxes, the Borrowers shall furnish to the Agent, at
its address referred to in  Section 14.1  hereof, the original or a
certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof or other evidence of
payment satisfactory to the Agent.  

(e)  
 Delivery of Tax Forms . Each Lender organized under the laws of a
jurisdiction other than the United States or any state thereof shall deliver to
the Borrowers, with a copy to the Agent, on the Closing Date or concurrently
with the delivery of the relevant Assignment and Acceptance, as applicable, (i)
two United States Internal Revenue Service Forms W-8ECI or Forms W-8BEN, as
applicable (or successor forms), properly completed and certifying in each case
that such Lender is entitled to a complete exemption from withholding or
deduction for or on account of any United States federal income taxes, and (ii)
an Internal Revenue Service Form W-8 or W-9 or successor applicable form, as the
case may be, to establish an exemption from United States backup withholding
taxes. Each such Lender further agrees to deliver to the Borrowers, with a copy
to the Agent, a Form W-8ECI or W-8BEN and Form W-8 or W-9, or successor
applicable forms or manner of certification, as the case may be, on or before
the date that any such form expires or becomes obsolete or after the occurrence
of any event requiring a change in the most recent form previously delivered by
it to the Borrowers, certifying in the case of a Form W-8ECI or W-8BEN that such
Lender is entitled to receive payments under this Agreement without deduction or
withholding of any United States federal income taxes (unless in any such case
an event (including, without limitation, any change in treaty, law or
regulation) has occurred prior to the date on which any such delivery would
otherwise be required which renders such forms inapplicable or the exemption to
which such forms relate unavailable and such Lender notifies the Borrowers and
the Agent that it is not entitled to receive payments without deduction or
withholding of United States federal income taxes) and, in the case of a Form
W-8 or W-9, establishing an exemption from United States backup withholding
tax.  

(f)  
 Survival . Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the
Borrowers hereunder, the agreements and obligations of each Borrower contained
in this  Section 4.11  shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations
and the termination of the Commitments.  

Section 4.12   Replacement of Lenders .   

Each
Lender hereby severally agrees that if any Lender (an   Affected
Lender  ) (i) makes demand upon the Borrowers for (or if the Borrowers
are otherwise required to pay) amounts pursuant to  Sections 4.8 ,
 4.10  or  4.11  and the payment of such additional amounts are, and
are likely to continue to be, materially more onerous in the reasonable judgment
of the Borrowers than payment of such amounts with respect to the other Lenders,
or (ii) does not consent (or fails to respond) to an amendment, modification or
waiver to any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document requested
by the Borrowers and approved by the Required Lenders, the Borrowers may, within
30 days of (x) receipt by the Borrowers of such demand or notice (or the
occurrence of such other event causing the Borrowers to be required to pay such
compensation) or (y) approval of such amendment, modification or waiver, give
notice in writing to the Agent and such Affected Lender of its intention to
replace such Affected Lender with the Eligible Assignee designated in such
notice. Within 30 days of its receipt of such notice, such Affected Lender
shall, subject to the payment of any amounts due pursuant to  Section 4.9 
by the Borrowers, assign, in accordance with  Section 14.10 , its
Commitment, Loans, Notes, and other rights and obligations under this Agreement
and all other Loan Documents (including Reimbursement Obligations, if
applicable) to such designated financial institution;  provided ,
 however , that (i) such assignment shall be without recourse,
representation or warranty (except as to (x) such Affected Lender s then
existing Commitment amount and the outstanding principal amount of Loans held by
such Affected Lender, and (y) the absence of Liens arising by, through and under
the Affected Lender) and shall be on terms and conditions reasonably
satisfactory to such Affected Lender and such designated financial institution,
(ii) the purchase price paid by such designated financial institution shall be
in the amount of such Affected Lender s Loans and its percentage of
outstanding Reimbursement Obligations, together with all accrued and unpaid
interest and fees in respect thereof, plus all other amounts (including the
amounts demanded and not paid under  Sections   4.8 ,  4.9 ,
 4.10 , and  4.11 ), owing to such Affected Lender hereunder and (iii)
the Borrowers shall pay to such Affected Lender and the Agent all reasonable
out-of-pocket expenses incurred by such Affected Lender and the Agent in
connection with such assignment and assumption (including the assignment fee
described in  Section 14.10 ).   

ARTICLE V 
 CLOSING, CONDITIONS OF CLOSING AND BORROWING   

Section 5.1   Closing . The closing shall take place at the
offices of Reed Smith LLP at 10:00 a.m. on September 9, 2005, or on such other
date as the parties hereto shall mutually agree.   

Section 5.2   Conditions to Closing and Initial Extensions of
Credit . The obligation of the Lenders to close this Agreement and to make
the initial Loan or issue the initial Letter of Credit is subject to the
satisfaction of each of the following conditions, including, without limitation,
delivery of each of the documents described below, all in form and substance
satisfactory to the Agent:   

(a)  
 Executed Loan Documents . This Agreement, the Revolving Credit Notes and
the Swing Line Note shall have each been duly authorized, executed and delivered
to the Agent by the parties thereto, shall be in full force and effect and no
default shall exist thereunder, and the Borrowers shall have delivered original
counterparts thereof to the Agent.  

(b)  
 Collateral Documents . The joinder executed by Agent with respect to the
Intercreditor Agreement, the joinder executed by the Agent with respect to the
Lockbox Agreement and the Custody Agreement, shall have each been duly
authorized, executed and delivered to the Agent by the parties thereto, shall be
in full force and effect and no default shall exist thereunder.  

(c)  
 Closing Certificates; etc .  

(i)   Certificate of the Secretary of
each Borrower . The Agent shall have received a certificate of the secretary
of each Borrower certifying as to the incumbency and genuineness of the
signature of each officer of such Borrower executing Loan Documents to which it
is a party and certifying that attached thereto is a true, correct and complete
copy of (A) the certificate of incorporation of such Borrower, and all
amendments thereto, if any, certified as of a recent date by the Secretary of
State of the State of Delaware, (B) the bylaws of such Borrower as in
effect on the date of such certifications, and (C) resolutions duly adopted
by the Board of Directors of such Borrower authorizing the borrowings
contemplated hereunder and the execution, delivery and performance of this
Agreement and the other Loan Documents.  

(ii)   Certificates of Good
Standing . The Agent shall have received certificates as of a recent date of
the good standing of each Borrower under the laws of the State of Delaware, the
State of New Jersey and the State of New York.  

(iii)   Opinions of Counsel . The
Agent shall have received favorable opinions of counsel to the Borrowers
addressed to the Agent and the Lenders with respect to the Borrowers, the Loan
Documents and such other matters as the Lenders shall request.  

(iv)   Tax Forms . The Agent shall
have received copies of the United States Internal Revenue Service forms
required by  Section 4.11(e)  hereof, if any.  

(v)   Officer s Compliance
Certificate . The Agent shall have received a completed Officer s
Compliance Certificate, as of the Closing Date, showing, among other things,
that, taking into account the Extensions of Credit made on such date, the ratio
of Funded Debt to Tangible Net Worth does not exceed 4.0 to 1.  

(vi)   Borrowing Base
Certificate . The Agent shall have received a Borrowing Base Certificate
completed as of the Closing Date.  

(vii)   Incumbency Certificates .
The Agent shall have received an authorization and incumbency certificate from
the Custodian, certifying as to its due authorization and the incumbency of its
officers with regard to the entering into, execution and delivery of the Custody
Agreement.  

(d)  
 Collateral .  

(i)   Delivery to Filing Agent .
The Agent shall have received a copy of the Request for Application (as such
term is defined in the Custody Agreement) delivered to the Filing Agent with
respect to each Pledged Chassis identified on Schedule 2, and the Borrower shall
have satisfied all delivery requirements set forth in the Custody
Agreement.  

(ii)   Filings and Recordings .
Except to the extent the Filing Agent is holding Certificates of Title for which
it is under instruction to file applications reflecting the lien of the Agent as
required by this Agreement, all filings and recordations that are necessary to
perfect the security interests of the Lenders in the Collateral shall have been
received by the Agent and the Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to
the Agent that upon such filings and recordations such security interests
constitute valid and perfected first priority Liens therein, including, without
limitation, UCC-1 financing statements listing each Borrower as a debtor, the
Agent as secured party and describing the Collateral.  

(iii)   Lien Searches . The Agent
shall have reviewed the results of Lien searches (including, without limitation,
searches as to judgments, pending litigation and tax matters) made against each
Borrower under the applicable UCC (or applicable judicial docket), indicating
among other things that the Collateral is free and clear of any Lien except for
Permitted Liens.  

(iv)   Casualty and Liability
Insurance . The Agent shall have received certificates of insurance, evidence
of payment of all insurance premiums for the current policy year of each, and,
if requested by the Agent, copies of insurance policies, evidencing customary
levels of insurance (and deductibles) covering the Collateral and the Pledged
Assets, with carriers reasonably acceptable to the Agent, and otherwise in form
and substance customary in Borrowers  industry.  

(e)  
 Consents; Defaults .  

(i)   Governmental and Third Party
Approvals . Each Borrower shall have obtained all necessary approvals,
authorizations and consents of any Person and of all Governmental Authorities
and courts having jurisdiction with respect to the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.  

(ii)   No Injunction, Etc . No
action, proceeding, investigation, regulation, legislation or litigation shall
have been instituted, threatened or proposed before any Governmental Authority
to enjoin, restrain, or prohibit, or to obtain damages in respect of, or which
is related to or arises out of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or which, in
the Agent s sole discretion, would make it inadvisable to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement and such other Loan
Documents.  

(iii)   No Event of Default . No
Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.  

(iv)   No Materially Adverse
Effect . No Materially Adverse Effect shall have occurred and be continuing
since December 31, 2004 and no material disruption or material adverse change in
the financial or capital markets has occurred that would have a material adverse
effect on the market for loan syndications.  

(f)  
 Financial Matters .  

(i)   Financial Condition
Certificate . Interpool shall have delivered to the Agent a certificate, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Agent, and certified as accurate by a
Responsible Officer, that (A) each Borrower is Solvent, (B) each Borrower s
payables are current and not past due, and (C) attached thereto are the
five year financial projections previously delivered to the Agent representing
the good faith opinions of the Borrowers and senior management thereof as to the
projected results contained therein.  

(ii)   Payment at Closing . The
Borrowers shall have paid the fees set forth or referenced in  Section 4.3
 hereof and any other accrued and unpaid fees or commissions due hereunder
(including, without limitation, legal fees and expenses) to the Agent and
Lenders, and to any other Person such amount as may be due thereto in connection
with the transactions contemplated hereby, including, without limitation, all
taxes, fees and other charges in connection with the execution, delivery,
recording, filing and registration of any of the Loan Documents.  

(g)  
 Miscellaneous .  

(i)   Notice of Borrowing . The
Agent shall have received a Notice of Borrowing from the Borrowers in accordance
with  Section 2.2(a)  hereof, and a Notice of Account Designation
specifying the account or accounts to which the proceeds of any Loans made after
the Closing Date are to be disbursed.  

(ii)   Proceedings and Documents .
All opinions, certificates and other instruments and all proceedings in
connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be
satisfactory in form and substance to the Lenders. The Lenders shall have
received copies of all other instruments and other evidence as the Lender may
reasonably request, in form and substance satisfactory to the Lenders, with
respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the taking of all
actions in connection therewith.  

(iii)   Existing Facility . The
Existing Facility shall be repaid in full and terminated. The Agent shall have
received pay-off letters in form and substance satisfactory to it evidencing
such repayment, termination, reconveyance and release, together with UCC-3
financing statements and other evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Agent
evidencing the release of any security interest or lien in the Pledged
Assets.  

(iv)   Due Diligence and Other
Documents . The Borrowers shall have delivered to the Agent such other
documents, certificates and opinions as the Agent may reasonably
request.  

Section 5.3   Conditions to All Extensions of Credit . The
obligations of the Lenders to make any Extensions of Credit are subject to the
satisfaction of the following conditions precedent on the relevant borrowing or
issue date, as applicable:   

(a)  
 Continuation of Representations and Warranties .  The
representations and warranties contained in Article VII hereof shall be true and
correct on and as of such borrowing or issuance date with the same effect as if
made on and as of such date; except for any representation and warranty made as
of an earlier date, which representation and warranty shall remain true and
correct as of such earlier date.  

(b)  
 No Existing Default or Materially Adverse Effect . No Default, Event of
Default or Materially Adverse Effect shall have occurred and be continuing
hereunder (i) on the borrowing date with respect to such Loan or after giving
effect to the Loans to be made on such date or (ii) or the issue date with
respect to such Letter of Credit or after giving affect to such Letters of
Credit on such date.  

(c)  
 Officer s Compliance Certificate; Borrowing Base Certificate; Additional
Documents . The Agent shall have received the Officer s Compliance
Certificate and Borrowing Base Certificate most recently required under
 Sections 8.2(a) and (b) , and each additional document, instrument, legal
opinion or other item of information reasonably requested by it.  

(d)  
 Delivery to Filing Agent . The Agent shall have received a copy of the
Request for Application (as such term is defined in the Custody Agreement)
delivered to the Filing Agent with respect to each Pledged Chassis identified on
Schedule 2, and the Borrower shall have satisfied all delivery requirements set
forth in the Custody Agreement.  

(e)  
 Conditions . Each borrowing by the Borrowers or request for the issuance
of a Letter of Credit shall constitute a representation and warranty by the
Borrowers as of the date of such Loan or issuance of such Letter of Credit that
the conditions of this  Section 5.3  hereof have been satisfied.  

ARTICLE VI 
 COLLATERAL     

Section 6.1   Grant of Security Interest.  Each Borrower hereby
pledges, assigns, conveys, mortgages, transfers and grants to the Agent a
continuing security interest in and to any and all of the Pledged Assets,
whether now existing or hereafter acquired or created, whether owned
beneficially or of record and whether owned individually, jointly or otherwise,
together with the products and proceeds thereof, all collections, payments and
other distributions and realizations with respect thereto, any and all other
rights, powers, privileges, remedies and interests of the Borrowers therein;
thereto or thereunder, and any and all renewals, substitutions, modifications
and extensions of any and all of the items set forth above (the foregoing items
will be referred to collectively as the   Collateral  ), as
security for the timely and full payment and satisfaction of the Obligations as
and when due. However, items released in writing by the Agent from time to time
from the Lien of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall no longer be
considered to be  Collateral  hereunder.  

Section 6.2   Collateral Documentation .   

(a)   The Borrowers shall have delivered to the Custodian the
Certificates of Title to the Pledged Chassis, which shall be delivered with this
Agreement if currently existing or shall be delivered promptly as hereafter
received, acquired or created, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and the
Custody Agreement. The Agent in its sole and absolute discretion may at any time
after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, transfer
or register any of the Collateral into the name of the Agent or its nominee(s)
without any notice to any Borrower. In addition to the foregoing, the Borrowers
shall deliver to the Agent or its designee such other assignments, pledges,
deeds, mortgages, financing statements, attornments, estoppels, waivers,
consents, recognitions, bailments, legal opinions and other instruments,
documents and agreements as the Agent from time to time may request to further
evidence, confirm, effect or perfect any mortgage or other security interest
granted or required to be granted under this Agreement or any other Loan
Document, each in such form and substance as may be acceptable to the
Agent.  

(b)  
Each Borrower hereby irrevocably authorizes the Agent in its sole and absolute
discretion: (i) to file without the signature of any Borrower any and all
financing statements, modifications and continuations in respect of the
Collateral and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other
Loan Documents; (ii) to sign any such statement, modification or continuation on
behalf of any Borrower if the Agent deems such signature necessary or desirable
under Applicable Law; and (iii) to file a carbon, photographic or other
reproduction of any financing statement or modification if the Agent deems such
filing necessary or desirable under Applicable Law;  provided that  so long
as no Event of Default is then continuing, the Agent shall accord the Borrowers
an opportunity to review any proposed financing statement or modification (but
not continuation); and  provided further that  the failure to send any such
copy for review shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any such
filing by the Agent. The Borrowers shall promptly reimburse the Agent for all
costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation and filing of any
such document. The Agent shall send a copy of any such filing to the Borrowers;
 provided, however, that  the failure to send that copy shall not affect
the validity or enforceability of any such filing. The Agent shall not be liable
for any mistake in or failure to file any financing statement, modification or
continuation. The Borrowers agree to file the financing statements being
delivered pursuant to Section 5.1(d) hereof and to provide, not later than
September 30, 2005, the Agent with a  bring-down  lien search
evidencing the filing of such financing statements and any other filings made
against the Borrowers since August 1, 2005.  

(c)  
Prior to receipt by the Custodian, each Certificate of Title (or, as to any
Pledged Chassis purchased directly from the manufacturer or another seller, the
necessary purchase documentation) shall be delivered to a Filing Agent with
instruction to the Filing Agent to promptly apply for a revised (or new)
Certificate of Title evidencing a Borrower as the sole owner and the Agent as
the sole secured party, and providing an address for the Custodian to which such
issued Certificate of Title shall be delivered.  

(d)  
The Borrowers hereby covenant that Interpool and its Subsidiaries will duly
perform all their obligations under the Lockbox Agreement and the Intercreditor
Agreement and the Borrowers will direct all Lessees to make all Lease Payments
to the  Lockbox  and the  Lockbox Account  (as such terms
are defined in the Lockbox Agreement).  

(e)  
The Agent and each Lender acknowledge and agree that the Agent shall not
exercise any rights it may have with respect to the Intercreditor Agreement or
the Lockbox Agreement, including, without limitation, any right to direct the
proceeds of the Pledged Assets or to modify the account into which proceeds of
the Pledged Assets are deposited, unless and until an Event of Default under
this Agreement shall have occurred and be continuing.  

Section 6.3   Performance by the Agent.  In the event the
Borrowers fail to pay or otherwise perform or satisfy any of their obligations
to others or under or in respect of any of the Collateral as required by this
Agreement or any other Loan Document, the Agent shall have the right in its sole
and absolute discretion (but shall be under no duty or obligation) to make any
such payment or cause the performance or satisfaction of any other such
obligation, including (without limitation) the payment of any tax, claim or
insurance premium, the maintenance or defense of any part of the Collateral or
the purchase or discharge of any Lien on any part of the Collateral. The Agent
will endeavor to give the Borrowers prior notice (which may be by telephone or
telecopy) of any such payment or action;  provided, however, that  the
failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of the payment or
action or the reimbursement obligations of the Borrowers with respect thereto.
The Borrowers shall pay or reimburse on demand any and all amounts advanced or
expenses incurred by the Agent or its designee under this Section, which shall
constitute additional Loans under (and secured by) this Agreement and shall bear
interest at the rate applicable to the Loans. No payment made or action taken by
the Agent or its designee shall be deemed or construed to be a waiver, cure or
satisfaction of the underlying default, which default shall be deemed to be
continuing until such time (if ever) as the Borrowers have, prior to the
Revolving Credit Termination Date, (i) resumed the payment, performance and
satisfaction required by this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and (ii)
repaid all Loans advanced for such payments and actions, together with interest
thereon, and paid all others to whom the Agent has requested direct payment
respecting such payments and actions.   

Section 6.4   Litigation Respecting Collateral .   

(a)  
In the event that any action, suit or other proceeding (whether or not
purportedly on behalf of the Borrowers) at law, in equity, in arbitration or
before any other Governmental Authority involving or affecting the Collateral
which could reasonably be expected to result in a Materially Adverse Effect (a
 Proceeding )   is contemplated by the Borrowers or is otherwise
commenced by or against any party hereto, the Borrowers shall give the Agent
immediate notice thereof. Within twenty (20) Business Days after its receipt of
such notice, the Agent shall notify the Borrowers that either (i) the Agent will
join in the Proceeding, (ii) a specified designee of the Agent will join in the
Proceeding, or (iii) the Borrowers may prosecute the Proceeding without the
participation of the Agent or its designee, which Proceeding in any event shall
be conducted in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this
Section. In the event the Agent fails to respond to such notice of the
Proceeding within that period, the Agent shall be deemed to have elected
alternative (iii) above, without, however, waiving any other right, power,
privilege, remedy or interest of the Agent under this Agreement, the other Loan
Documents and Applicable Law.  

(b)  
If the Borrowers elect to commence a Proceeding or a Proceeding has otherwise
commenced by or against any party hereto, the Borrowers shall cause the same to
be prosecuted (A) in such a manner that all the rights of the Agent are
preserved and protected to the fullest extent reasonably possible and (B) with
counsel to the Borrowers that is acceptable to and represents both the Borrowers
and the Agent. Subject to compliance by the Borrowers with the foregoing, (x)
the Agent (if named as a party by someone other than the Borrowers) shall join
in the Proceeding and take any other action reasonably requested by counsel to
the Borrowers to facilitate the prosecution thereof, all at the sole cost and
expense of the Borrowers, and (y) the Proceeding may be prosecuted by the
Borrowers in such manner as the Borrowers and their counsel reasonably deem
appropriate. In any event, if the Agent determines at any time during the
pendency of a Proceeding (after consultation with counsel to the Agent) that the
interests of the Agent are at variance with the interests of the Borrowers, the
Agent may appoint its own counsel (at the expense of the Borrowers) to represent
the Agent in the Proceeding, and the Borrowers and their counsel shall cooperate
with the Agent and its counsel to the fullest extent possible in that
Proceeding.  

Section 6.5   Power of Attorney . With respect to the various
assets and properties included or required to be included in the Collateral
hereunder, the Borrowers hereby irrevocably make, constitute and appoint the
Agent and the Agent  s executive officers (Vice President or above), and
each of them, with full power of substitution, as the true and lawful
attorney-in-fact of the Borrowers, with full power and authority from time to
time in the name, place and stead of the Borrowers to: (a) take possession of
and execute or endorse (to the Agent or otherwise) any one or more contracts,
mortgages, deeds, pledges, assignments, instruments and other documents, and any
one or more notes, checks, drafts, bills of exchange, money orders or other
documents received in payment for or on account of those assets and properties;
(b) receive, open and dispose of all mail and other deliveries to the Borrowers
respecting the Collateral and request postal authorities and others to change
the delivery address(es) for the Borrowers to such address(es) as the Agent may
deem necessary or desirable; (c) demand, collect and receive any monies due on
account of those assets and properties and give receipts and acquittances in
connection therewith; (d) negotiate and compromise any claim, and commence,
prosecute, defend, settle or withdraw any claims, suits or proceedings,
pertaining to or arising out of those assets and properties; (e) pay any
Indebtedness or other liability or perform any other obligation required to be
paid or performed under this Agreement or any other Loan Document by the
Borrowers or any other person (other than the Agent); (f) prepare and execute on
behalf of the Borrowers any mortgage, financing statement or other evidence of a
security interest contemplated by this Agreement, or any modification, refiling,
continuation or extension thereof, (g) take any other action contemplated by
this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (h) sign, execute, acknowledge,
swear to, verify, deliver, file, record and publish any one or more of the
foregoing;  provided, however,  that the above-named attorneys-in-fact may
exercise the powers set forth in subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (g) of
this Section only following the occurrence and during the continuance of an
Event of Default, whether or not any reference to this Power of Attorney is made
in that notice, and without regard to whether any other action has been taken by
the Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document. This Power of
Attorney is hereby declared to be irrevocable, with full power of substitution
and coupled with an interest. This Power of Attorney shall survive the
dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the Borrowers and shall extend to
and be binding upon the successors, assigns, heirs and legal representatives of
the Borrowers. This Power of Attorney may be exercised (i) by any one of the
above-named attorneys-in-fact, or by any substitute designated by any of those
attorneys-in-fact, and (ii) by signing for the Borrowers individually on any
document or instrument or by listing two or more of the persons, including the
Borrowers, for whom any document or instrument is being signed and signing once,
with a single signature by the attorney-in-fact or substitute being effective to
exercise the Powers of Attorney of all persons so listed. A facsimile signature
shall be effective if so affixed. The Agent shall not be liable for any failure
to collect or enforce the payment of any of those assets and properties.

Section 6.6   Certain Acknowledgments and Waivers by the
Borrowers .   

(a)  
The Borrowers acknowledge and agree that the rights, powers, privileges,
remedies and interests granted to or conferred upon the Agent in respect of any
of the Collateral by this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and Applicable Law
are purely discretionary and shall not, and shall not be deemed or construed to,
impose upon the Agent any duty or other obligation (A) to sell, foreclose or
otherwise realize upon any of the Collateral, (B) to protect or preserve any of
the Collateral, (C) to perform or satisfy any obligation under or respecting any
of the Collateral or the Borrowers, (D) to mitigate or otherwise reduce any
damage or other loss, or (E) to otherwise exercise or enforce any such right,
power, privilege, remedy or interest. Any sale, foreclosure or other realization
upon any of the Collateral, or any other exercise or enforcement of any such
right, power, privilege, remedy or interest, if undertaken by the Agent in its
sole and absolute discretion, may be delayed, discontinued or otherwise not
pursued or exhausted for any reason whatsoever (whether intentionally or
otherwise). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrowers
hereby expressly waive each and every claim or defense, and agree that they will
not assert or pursue (by action, suit, counterclaim or otherwise) any claim or
defense, respecting (i) any settlement or compromise with any obligor or other
third party under any Lease or Related Asset included in the Collateral,
irrespective of any reduction in the potential proceeds therefrom, (ii) the
selection or order of disposition of any Collateral (which may be at random or
in any order(s) the Agent may select in its sole and absolute discretion), (iii)
any private sale of any Collateral, whether or not any public market exists,
(iv) the choice or timing of any sale date (which the Agent may select in its
sole and absolute discretion), irrespective of whether greater sale proceeds
would be realizable on a different sale date, (v) the adequacy of the sale price
of any Collateral, (vi) any insufficiency of the proceeds to fully satisfy the
Obligations, (vii) any sale of Collateral to the first person to receive an
offer or make a bid, (viii) the selection of any purchaser of any Collateral, or
(ix) any default by any purchaser of any Collateral. Neither the Agent nor any
of its representatives shall incur any liability in connection with any sale of
or other action taken respecting any Collateral in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or Applicable Law
(including the UCC s requirement of commercial reasonableness).  

(b)  
The Borrowers hereby expressly waive the applicability of any and all Applicable
Law that are or may be in conflict with the terms and provisions of this
Agreement and the other Loan Documents now or at any time in the future to the
extent waiver is not limited under Applicable Law, including (without
limitation) those pertaining to notice (other than notices required by this
Agreement or any other Loan Document), appraisal, valuation, stay, extension,
moratorium, marshaling of assets, exemption and equity of redemption; provided,
however, that the preceding provision is not intended to confer upon the Agent
any right, power, privilege, remedy or interest not permissible under Applicable
Law notwithstanding the foregoing waivers nor to waive any party s duty of
commercial reasonableness.  

Section 6.7   Partial Releases.  The Agent from time to time
shall release portions of the Collateral from the liens and security interests
granted under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents qualifying for release
in accordance with the terms of Section 2.5(c), 6.8 or 11.7 hereof, shall
execute and deliver the documentation reasonably required to effect each such
release (in such form and substance as may be acceptable to the Agent), and
shall return the applicable instruments and other documents to the Borrowers or
their designee, in each case subject to receipt of evidence and documentation in
such form and substance as may be acceptable to the Agent that those terms and
conditions have been satisfied; provided that no Event of Default or Default
then exists or could result therefrom. Any and all actions under this Section
shall be without any recourse to or representation or warranty by the Agent and
shall be at the sole cost and expense of the Borrowers.   

Section 6.8   Substitution of Collateral .  

So
long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Interpool may pledge
Chassis, together with their Related Assets, to the Agent in exchange for
Chassis, together with their Related Assets, then allocated to the Collateral,
if:   

(a)  
As of the related Substitution Date, the Chassis then being transferred have an
aggregate (i) Net Book Value, for any Eligible Chassis, and (ii) Finance Lease
Value, for any Eligible Lease, as applicable, that is equal to or greater than
the aggregate (x) Net Book Value, for any Chassis not subject to a Finance
Lease, and (y) Finance Lease Value, for any Chassis subject to a Finance Lease,
of the Chassis and Related Assets being replaced;  

(b)  
as of the related Substitution Date for any Chassis, either (i) such Chassis
then being transferred satisfies the definition of Eligible Chassis or (ii) the
Lease related to such Chassis satisfies the definition of Eligible Lease, as
applicable;  

(c)  
no Event of Loss has occurred with respect to any Chassis then being transferred
and no Lease related to any such Chassis is a Defaulted Lease;  

(d)  
no Chassis, Leases or any Related Assets, then being pledged to the Agent were
subject to (i) any adverse selection procedures by any Borrower in selecting
such Chassis, Leases or other Related Assets or (ii) at the time of such
transfer, any Lien other than a Permitted Lien; and  

(e)  
immediately upon such substitution, the Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders,
shall have a perfected, first priority Lien on such Chassis, Leases and, to the
extent in which a security interest can be perfected under Article 9 of the UCC,
Related Assets.  

Section 6.9   Termination of Security Interests.  The security
interests granted to the Agent hereunder shall terminate when all Commitments
hereunder have been terminated and all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly
paid and satisfied in full. Upon such complete payment and satisfaction: the
Agent shall reassign, release and/or deliver to the Borrowers all Collateral
then held by or at the direction of the Agent under the Loan Documents; and, if
requested by the Borrowers, the Agent shall deliver to the Borrowers for filing
in each office in which any financing statement, mortgage, or lease, or
assignment thereof, relating to the Collateral, or any part thereof, shall have
been filed, a termination statement under the UCC or an appropriate
satisfaction, release, reconveyance or reassignment releasing the Agent s
interest therein, and any other instrument or document that the Borrowers deem
reasonably necessary to evidence the termination of the Agent s security
interest; each in such form and substance as may be acceptable to the Agent. Any
and all actions under this Section shall be without any recourse to or
representation or warranty by the Agent and shall be at the sole cost and
expense of the Borrowers.   

ARTICLE VII 
 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES     

Each
Borrower represents and warrants to the Agent and each of the Lenders that as of
the Closing Date and each date of each Extension of Credit:   

Section 7.1   Corporate Existence and Good Standing, Etc .  

(a)  
It and its respective Subsidiaries are Corporations validly organized and
existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they
are organized, and each has the requisite organizational power to own its
property and conduct its business as presently conducted by it;
and  

(b)  
In all jurisdictions where a Borrower or any of such Borrower s
Subsidiaries are required to be qualified to do business such Borrower and each
such Subsidiary is either so qualified or such qualification can readily be
obtained without substantial penalty; and the failure, individually or in the
aggregate, to qualify in jurisdictions where such Borrower or any of such
Borrower s Subsidiaries have not done so could not, individually or in the
aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Materially Adverse Effect.  

Section 7.2  Corporate Power; Consents; Absence of Conflict with Other
Agreements, Etc.    

(a)  
The execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents by each Borrower
and the borrowings and transactions contemplated hereby and
thereby:  

(i)  are within their respective
organization powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary organization
action;  

(ii)  do not require any approval or
consent of, or filing with, any governmental agency or authority, and do not and
will not contravene any provision of Applicable Law or the terms of their
respective charter documents or bylaws or any amendment thereof; and  

(iii)  will not conflict with or result
in any material breach or contravention of or default under, or the creation of
any Lien under, any indenture, agreement, lease, instrument or undertaking to
which any Borrower is a party or by which any of them or any of their properties
are bound.  

(b)  
Each of the Loan Documents executed by a Borrower is, and will be, a valid and
legally binding obligation of such Borrower, enforceable in accordance with
their respective terms.  

(c)  
This Agreement and the other Loan Documents have been duly executed and
delivered by each Borrower thereto.  

Section 7.3   Title to Properties . Interpool and each of its
Subsidiaries own all of their respective assets reflected as such in
Interpool s Consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2004. Each
Borrower is Solvent and will not be rendered insolvent as a result of the
transactions contemplated hereby or referred to herein.   

Section 7.4   Financial Statements . The Agent and the Lenders
have been furnished with (a) Interpool s audited Consolidated balance sheet
as of December 31, 2004, and its audited Consolidated statements of income,
retained earnings and cash flows for the Fiscal Year then ended, and related
footnotes, and (b) Interpool s unaudited Consolidated balance sheets as of
June 30, 2005, and unaudited Consolidated statements of income, retained
earnings and cash flows for the fiscal quarter then ended. Such financial
statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent
basis throughout the periods specified and present fairly the financial position
of Interpool and its Subsidiaries as of such date and the results of their
respective operations for the year then ended. There are no liabilities,
contingent or otherwise, known to any Borrower, not disclosed in such financial
statements or footnotes that involve a material amount.   

Section 7.5   No Material Changes, Etc.  There have occurred no
changes in the condition (financial or otherwise), operations, assets, income,
or business of Interpool and its Subsidiaries as shown on or reflected in
Interpool s Consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2004 and as of
June 30, 2005, or Interpool s Consolidated statements of income and cash
flows for the Fiscal Year and fiscal quarter then ended, the effect of which,
individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a
Materially Adverse Effect on Interpool and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.

Section 7.6   Litigation . There are no actions, suits,
proceedings or investigations of any kind pending or, to its knowledge,
threatened, against Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries before any court,
tribunal or administrative agency or board which, if determined adversely,
individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a
Materially Adverse Effect, or materially impair their ability to carry on their
businesses substantially as now conducted, or result in any substantial
liability not adequately covered by insurance, or which question the validity of
this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any action taken or to be taken
pursuant hereto or thereto.   

Section 7.7   No Materially Adverse Contracts, Etc . Neither
Interpool nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to any charter, corporate or
other legal restriction, or any judgment, decree, order, rule or regulation
which, individually or in the aggregate, in the judgment of its officers, could
reasonably be expected to have a Materially Adverse Effect.   

Section 7.8   Compliance with Other Instruments Laws, Etc .
Neither Interpool nor any of its Subsidiaries are violating any provision of
their respective charter documents or bylaws or any agreement or instrument by
which they or any of their properties may be bound or any decree, order,
judgment, or, to the knowledge of their officers, any statute, license, rule or
regulation, in a manner which, individually or in the aggregate, could result in
the imposition of substantial penalties or could reasonably be expected to have
a Materially Adverse Effect.   

Section 7.9   Tax Status . Except to the extent expressly
disclosed on Interpool s 10-K filed in connection with its Fiscal Year
ended December 31, 2004, Interpool and its Subsidiaries (a) made or filed all
tax returns, reports and declarations required by any jurisdiction to which any
of them are subject, (b) paid all taxes and other governmental assessments and
charges that are material in amount and required to be paid, except those being
contested in good faith, by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued, and (c)
set aside on their books provisions reasonably adequate for the payment of all
taxes for periods subsequent to the periods to which such returns, reports or
declarations apply. There are no unpaid taxes in any material amount claimed to
be due from Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries by the taxing authority of any
jurisdiction, and the officers of the Borrowers know of no basis for any such
claim.   

Section 7.10   Compliance with ERISA . Interpool and each of its
Subsidiaries and each member of the Controlled Group have fulfilled their
obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code with
respect to each Plan and are in compliance in all material respects with the
applicable provision of ERISA and the Code, and have not incurred any liability
to the PBGC or a Plan under Title IV of ERISA; and no  prohibited
transaction  or  reportable event  (as such terms are defined in
ERISA) has occurred with respect to any Plan which could reasonably be expected
to result in material liability for excise taxes.   

Section 7.11   Environmental Matters .  

(a)  
Interpool and each of its Subsidiaries have obtained all material permits,
licenses and other authorizations which are required under all Environmental
Laws, except to the extent failure to have any such permit, license or
authorization, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be
expected to result in a Materially Adverse Effect. Interpool and each of its
Subsidiaries are in compliance in all material respects with the terms and
conditions of all such permits, licenses and authorizations, and are also in
compliance in all material respects with all other limitations, restrictions,
conditions, standards, prohibitions, requirements, obligations, schedules and
timetables contained in any applicable Environmental Law or in any regulation,
code, plan, order, decree, judgment, injunction, notice or demand letter issued,
entered, promulgated or approved thereunder, except to the extent failure to
comply, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to
have a Materially Adverse Effect on the business, financial condition or
operations of Interpool and its Subsidiaries.  

(b)  
No notice, notification, demand, request for information, citation, summons or
order has been issued, no complaint has been filed, no penalty has been assessed
and no investigation or review is pending or, to the knowledge of any Borrower,
threatened by any governmental or other entity with respect to any alleged
failure by Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries to have any permit, license or
authorization required in connection with the conduct of its business or with
respect to any Environmental Laws, including Environmental Laws relating to the
generation, treatment, storage, recycling, transportation, disposal or release
of any Hazardous Materials.  

(c)  
To the best of each Borrower s knowledge, no material oral or written
notification of a release of a Hazardous Material has been filed by or on behalf
of Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries and no property now or previously owned,
leased or used by Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries is listed or proposed for
listing on the National Priorities List under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or on any similar
state list of sites requiring investigation or clean-up.  

(d)  
To the best of each Borrower s knowledge, there are no Liens or
encumbrances arising under or pursuant to any Environmental Laws on any of the
real property or properties owned, leased or used by Interpool or any of its
Subsidiaries other than Liens, if any, that do not materially detract from the
value of the property or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of
the business of Interpool and its Subsidiaries or have a Materially Adverse
Effect and no governmental actions have been taken or are in process which could
subject any of such properties to such Liens or encumbrances or, as a result of
which Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries would be required to place any notice
or restriction relating to the presence of Hazardous Materials at any property
owned by it in any deed to such property.  

(e)  
None of Interpool, any of its Subsidiaries, or, to the best knowledge of
Interpool and each of its Subsidiaries, any previous owner, tenant, occupant or
user of any property owned, leased or used by Interpool or any of its
Subsidiaries has (i) engaged in or permitted any operations or activities upon
or any use or occupancy of such property, or any portion thereof, for the
purpose of or in any way involving the handling, manufacture, treatment,
storage, use, generation, release, discharge, refining, dumping or disposal
(whether legal or illegal, accidental or intentional) of any Hazardous Materials
on, under, in or about such property, except to the extent commonly used in
day-to-day operations of such property and in such case only in compliance with
all Environmental Laws, or (ii) transported any Hazardous Materials to, from or
across such property except to the extent commonly used in day-to-day operations
of such property and, in such case, in compliance in all material respects with,
all Environmental Laws; nor to the best knowledge of Interpool and each of its
Subsidiaries have any Hazardous Materials migrated from other properties upon,
about or beneath such property, nor, to the best knowledge of Interpool and each
of its Subsidiaries, are any Hazardous Materials presently constructed,
deposited, stored or otherwise located on, under, in or about such property
except to the extent commonly used in day-to-day operations of such property
and, in such case, in compliance in all material respects with, all
Environmental Laws.  

Section 7.12   No Default .  

(a)  
No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing under this
Agreement or any other Loan Document.  

(b)  
Neither Interpool nor any of its Subsidiaries are in default under any
Indebtedness which default could reasonably be expected to result in an Event of
Default under Section 12.1(g) or (h).  

Section 7.13   Patents, Copyrights, Permits, Trademarks, Licenses
and Leases . Interpool and each of its Subsidiaries have rights with respect
to all of their respective material patents, trademarks, permits, service marks,
trade names, copyrights and licenses, and shall have obtained assignments of all
leases, necessary for the present conduct of its business, the absence of which,
individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a
Materially Adverse Effect.   

Section 7.14   Use of Proceeds . The Borrowers will use proceeds
of the Extensions of Credit made hereunder only as follows: (i) in the case of
the initial Extensions of Credit to be made on the Closing Date, to refinance
the Existing Facility, and (ii) in the case of all other Extension of Credit,
for working capital and general corporate requirements of the Borrowers and the
payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement. No portion of any Credit Loan is to
be used, for the  purpose of purchasing or carrying  any  margin
stock  as such terms are used in Regulations T, U and X of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as amended and the Borrowers are not
engaged in the business of extending credit to others for such purpose.

Section 7.15   Capitalization . Interpool owns 100% of the issued
and outstanding Voting Stock of Trac, free and clear of all Liens. Trac has not
issued or granted any options or rights with respect to the issuance of its
respective capital stock which is presently outstanding.   

Section 7.16   Subsidiaries . The Borrowers have no Subsidiaries
that hold title to any Chassis other than another Borrower or special purpose
entity formed by a Borrower (provided that any titling trust shall not be deemed
a Subsidiary of any Borrower).   

Section 7.17   Holding Company and Investment Company Acts .
Neither Interpool, nor any of its Subsidiaries, is a  holding company 
or a  subsidiary company  of a  holding company  or an
 affiliate  of a  holding company , as such terms are
defined in the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935; nor are any of them a
 registered investment company , or an  affiliated company 
or a  principal underwriter  of a  registered investment
company , as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940,
as amended.   

Section 7.18   Pension Plans . The funding by Interpool, or any
of its Subsidiaries, of any Guaranteed Pension Plan (as defined in ERISA)
complies with the minimum funding standards of Section 302 of ERISA and Section
412 of the Code, as amended. Interpool and its Subsidiaries have made all
contributions to each Multiemployer Plan (as defined in ERISA) required pursuant
to any applicable collective bargaining agreement. No material Reportable Event
(as defined in ERISA) has occurred with respect to any Guaranteed Pension Plan;
Interpool and its Subsidiaries have not incurred any material liability as a
result of a complete or partial withdrawal, as defined in ERISA, from any
Multiemployer Plan; and no steps have been taken to terminate any Guaranteed
Pension Plan.   

Section 7.19   Disclosure . This Agreement and all certificates
furnished to the Agent and the Lenders by or on behalf of the Borrowers to the
Agent and the Lenders in connection herewith do not contain any untrue statement
of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make
the statements contained herein and therein not misleading. There is no fact
known to Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries which, individually or in the
aggregate, has or, could reasonably be expected to have a Materially Adverse
Effect, except as has been disclosed previously to the Agent in writing.

Section 7.20   Title to Pledged Assets . The Borrowers have good
and valid legal and beneficial title to, and are the lawful owners of, all
Pledged Assets, free and clear of all Liens whatsoever, except for Permitted
Liens.   

Section 7.21   Survival of Representations and Warranties, Etc .
All statements contained in any certificate delivered by or on behalf of any
Borrower pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any of the Loan
Documents (including any such representation or warranty made or in connection
with any amendment thereto) shall constitute representations and warranties made
under this Agreement. All representations and warranties made under this
Agreement shall survive, and not be waived by, the execution and delivery of
this Agreement or any other Loan Document, any investigation or inquiry by the
Agent or the Lenders, or by making any Extension of Credit under this Agreement.

Section 7.22   Eligible Leases; Eligible Chassis . Each Lease (a)
constitutes  tangible chattel paper , an  account  or a
 general intangible  within the meaning of the UCC and (b) if a
Finance Lease, complied with the definition of the term  Eligible
Lease  on the date such Finance Lease is pledged to the Agent hereunder.
Each Chassis set forth on  Schedule 2  from time to time complied with the
definition of the term  Eligible Chassis  on the date such Chassis
becomes a Pledged Asset. At the time any Additional Chassis or Substitute
Chassis are pledged to the Agent hereunder, or any Pledged Chassis is released
from the Collateral, the Borrowers shall deliver to the Agent, the Lenders and
the Custodian a revised  Schedule 2  reflecting such additions,
substitutions and/or releases.   

Section 7.23   Foreign Assets Control Regulations . None of the
requesting or borrowing of any Extensions of Credit or the use of the proceeds
thereof of such will violate the Trading With the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C.   1
et seq., as amended) (the  Trading With the Enemy Act ) or any of the
foreign assets control regulations of the United States Treasury Department (31
CFR, Subtitle B, Chapter V, as amended) (the  Foreign Assets Control
Regulations ) or any enabling legislation or executive order relating
thereto (which for the avoidance of doubt shall include, but shall not be
limited to (a) Executive Order 13224 of September 21, 2001 Blocking Property and
Prohibiting Transactions With Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support
Terrorism (66 Fed. Reg. 49079 (2001)) (the  Executive Order ) and (b)
the Patriot Act. Furthermore, none of the Borrowers or their Affiliates (a) are
or will become a  blocked person  as described in the Executive Order,
the Trading With the Enemy Act or the Foreign Assets Control Regulations or (b)
engage or will engage in any dealings or transactions, or be otherwise
associated, with any such  blocked person .   

ARTICLE VIII 
 FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND NOTICES   

Until all the Obligations have been paid and satisfied in full and the
Commitments terminated, unless consent has been obtained in the manner set forth
in  Section 14.13  hereof, each Borrower will furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Agent and the Lenders at their addresses as set forth on
Schedule 1 hereto, or such other office as may be designated by in writing from
time to time:   

Section 8.1   Financial Statements and Projections .  

(a)  
 Quarterly Financial Statements . As soon as practicable and in any event
within sixty (60) days after the end of each of the first three (3) fiscal
quarters of each Fiscal Year, unaudited Consolidated balance sheets of Interpool
and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, as of the close of such fiscal quarter and
unaudited Consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows
for the fiscal quarter then ended and that portion of the Fiscal Year then ended
for Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, including, without limitation,
the notes thereto, all in reasonable detail setting forth in comparative form
the corresponding figures for the preceding Fiscal Year and prepared by the
Borrowers in accordance with GAAP and, if applicable, containing disclosure of
the effect on the financial position or results of operations of any change in
the application of accounting principles and practices during the period, and
certified by the chief financial officer of Interpool to present fairly in all
material respects the financial condition of Interpool and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries, and the results of operations of Interpool and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries, for the periods then ended, subject to normal year end
adjustments. Delivery to the Agent and Lenders of Interpool s filed Form
10-Q for the applicable Fiscal Quarter shall satisfy the foregoing
requirement.  

(b)  
 Annual Financial Statements . As soon as practicable and in any event
within one hundred twenty (120) days after the end of each Fiscal Year, audited
Consolidated balance sheets of Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, as
of the close of such Fiscal Year and audited Consolidated statements of income,
retained earnings and cash flows of Interpool and its Consolidated Subsidiaries,
for the Fiscal Year then ended, including, without limitation, the notes
thereto, all in reasonable detail setting forth in comparative form the
corresponding figures for the preceding Fiscal Year and prepared by an
independent certified public accounting firm acceptable to the Agent in
accordance with GAAP and, if applicable, containing disclosure of the effect on
the financial position or results of operation of any change in the application
of accounting principles and practices during the year, and accompanied by a
report thereon by such certified public accountants that is not qualified with
respect to scope limitations imposed by Interpool and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries, or with respect to accounting principles followed by Interpool and
its Consolidated Subsidiaries not in accordance with GAAP. Delivery to the Agent
of Interpool s filed Form 10-K for the applicable Fiscal Year shall satisfy
the foregoing requirement.  

(c)  
 Annual Financial Plan and Projections . As soon as practicable and in any
event within thirty (30) days after the beginning of each Fiscal Year, a
financial plan and projections for Interpool for the ensuing Fiscal Year, such
plan and projections to be prepared in accordance with GAAP and to include a
projected income statement, a statement of cash flows and balance sheet and the
assumptions used to develop such projections.  

Section 8.2   Certificates .  

(a)  
 Officer s Compliance Certificate . At each time financial statements
are delivered pursuant to  Section 8.1(a)  or  Section 8.1(b)  hereof
and at such other times as the Agent shall reasonably request, a certificate of
the chief financial officer of Interpool in the form of Exhibit F attached
hereto (an  Officer s Compliance Certificate ).  

(b)  
 Borrowing Base Certificate . Monthly, on the twentieth (20 th )
day of each month, and at such other times as the Agent shall reasonably
request, a certificate of the chief financial officer or the treasurer of
Interpool in the form of Exhibit G attached hereto (a  Borrowing Base
Certificate ).  

Section 8.3   Other Reports .  

(a)  
Promptly upon receipt thereof, copies of all reports, if any, submitted to any
Borrower or its Boards of Directors by its independent public accountants in
connection with their auditing function, including, without limitation, any
management letters or reports and any management responses thereto;  

(b)  
Promptly upon their becoming available, copies of such other financial
statements and reports, if any, as any Borrower may be required to publicly file
with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any similar or corresponding
governmental commission, department or agency substituted therefor, or any
similar or corresponding governmental commission, department, board, bureau, or
agency, federal or state; and  

(c)  
Such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial
condition of the Borrowers or the Collateral as the Agent or any Lender may
reasonably request.  

Section 8.4   Notice of Litigation and Other Matters . Prompt
(but in no event later than ten (10) days after an officer of Interpool or any
of its Subsidiaries obtain knowledge thereof) telephonic and written notice of:

(a)  
the commencement of all proceedings and investigations by or before any
Governmental Authority and all actions and proceedings in any court or before
any arbitrator against or involving Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries or any
of their respective properties, assets or businesses which could reasonably be
believed to create a potential liability or judgment in excess of
$5,000,000;  

(b)  
any notice of any violation received by Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries
from any Governmental Authority including, without limitation, any notice of
violation of Environmental Laws which in any such case could reasonably be
expected to have a Materially Adverse Effect;  

(c)  
any labor controversy that has resulted in, or threatens to result in, a strike
or other work action against Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries;  

(d)  
any attachment, judgment, lien, levy or order exceeding $5,000,000 that may be
assessed against or threatened against Interpool or any of its
Subsidiaries;  

(e)  
If and when any Borrower are required to give notice to the PBGC of any
 Reportable Event  (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) with respect
to any Plan that might constitute grounds for a termination of such Plan under
Title IV of ERISA, or knows that any member of the Controlled Group or the plan
administrator of any Plan has given or is required to give notice of any such
Reportable Event, a copy of the notice of such Reportable Event given or
required to be given to the PBGC;  

(f)  
Immediately upon becoming aware of the existence of any condition or event that
constitutes an Event of Default, written notice thereof specifying the nature
and duration thereof and the action being or proposed to be taken with respect
thereto; and  

(g)  
any change in any law or regulation, including, without limitation, changes in
tax laws and regulations, which could reasonably be expected to have (i) a
material adverse impact on the ability of the Borrowers to perform their
obligations under the Loan Documents or (ii) a Materially Adverse
Effect;  

(h)  
the receipt of any notice from any Governmental Authority that Interpool or any
of its Subsidiaries is disqualified, barred or suspended from bidding on or
performing any contract or proposed contract; and  

(i)  
any notice of resignation, resignation or removal of any trustee under the
Intercreditor Agreement or the Lockbox Agreement.  

Section 8.5   Accuracy of Information . All written information,
reports, statements and other papers and data furnished by or on behalf of
Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries to the Agent or any Lender (other than
financial forecasts) whether pursuant to this Article VIII or any other
provision of this Agreement shall be, at the time the same is so furnished,
complete and correct in all material respects to the extent necessary to give
the Agent or any Lender complete, true and accurate knowledge of the subject
matter based on the Borrowers  knowledge thereof.   

ARTICLE IX 
 AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS     

Each
Borrower (except as expressly noted below) covenants and agrees that, until all
of the Obligations have been paid and satisfied in full and the Commitments
terminated, unless consent has been obtained in the manner set forth in
 Section 14.13  hereof, the Borrowers shall, and to the extent applicable, shall
cause each of their Subsidiaries to:   

Section 9.1   Punctual Payment . Duly and punctually pay or cause
to be paid the principal and interest on the Notes and all fees and other
amounts from time to time owing hereunder, all in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement and the Notes.   

Section 9.2   Location of Office . Maintain each Borrower s
chief executive office and principal place of business at 211 College Road East,
Princeton, New Jersey 08540, or, in either case, at such other address as the
Borrowers shall designate in a notice to the Agent at least sixty (60) days
prior to the effective date of such relocation.   

Section 9.3   Records and Accounts; Collateral Tracking System .
(a) Keep true consolidated records and books of account in which full, true and
correct entries will be made in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles and maintain adequate accounts and reserves for all taxes (including
income taxes), all depreciation, depletion, obsolescence and amortization of its
properties, all contingencies, and all other reserves; and (b) maintain
computerized systems capable of tracking the Eligible Leases, Eligible Chassis,
Finance Lease Value and Net Book Value on a per Chassis basis, enabling the
Borrowers at all times to identify the same by owner and lender/lienholder.

Section 9.4   Business and Corporate Existence . Keep in full
force and effect its corporate existence and all rights, licenses, leases and
franchises reasonably necessary to the conduct of its business and comply with
(a) all Applicable Laws, (b) the provisions of its charter and other
organizational documents, and (c) all agreements and instruments by which it or
any of its properties may be bound and all applicable decrees, orders and
judgments, in each case in such manner that a Materially Adverse Effect could
not reasonably be expected to result either individually or in the aggregate.
Comply with all obligations set forth in the Loan Documents to which it is a
party.   

Section 9.5   Payment of Taxes . Promptly pay and discharge all
lawful taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon them
or upon their income or profit or upon any property, real, personal or mixed,
belonging to them, provided that neither Interpool nor any of its Subsidiaries
shall be required to pay any such tax, assessment, charge or levy if the same
shall not at the time be due and payable or can be paid thereafter without
penalty or if the validity thereof shall currently be contested in good faith by
appropriate proceedings diligently pursued and if Interpool or any such
Subsidiary, as the case may be, shall have set aside on its books reserves
deemed by it adequate with respect to such tax, assessment, charge or levy or if
failure so to pay could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse
Effect.   

Section 9.6   Maintenance of Pledged Assets . (i) Invoice and
collect from each Lessee all Lease Payments required to be paid by such Lessee
in such manner and to the same extent as the Borrowers do with respect to
similar contracts held for their own account; (ii) fulfill all of the
obligations of the Borrowers and any of the ongoing responsibilities (if any) of
the lessor under a Lease and exercise all rights of the Borrowers with respect
to the Leases and the Pledged Chassis; (iii) maintain with respect to each Lease
and each Pledged Chassis, and with respect to each payment by each Lessee and
compliance by each Lessee with the provisions of each Lease, complete and
accurate records in such manner and to the same extent as the Borrowers do with
respect to similar contracts and chassis held for its own account; (iv) execute,
deliver, report and file any and all tax returns with respect to sales, use,
personal property and other taxes (other than corporate income tax returns) and
any and all notices, reports, licensing applications or other required filings
required to be filed in any jurisdiction with respect to any Pledged Assets and
any and all filings required with respect to the Pledged Assets; (v) apply for
and maintain (or cause to be applied for and maintained) all licenses, permits,
registrations, authorizations and other governmental items necessary for the
Borrowers to acquire, hold and manage the Pledged Assets in each jurisdiction
where the failure to maintain such licenses, permits, registrations,
authorizations or governmental items could reasonably be expected to cause a
Materially Adverse Effect; (vi) pay or cause to be paid all applicable taxes
properly due and owing in connection with the Certificate of Title to the
Pledged Chassis (vii) enforce and negotiate the terms of any Lease in accordance
with the terms of the Servicing Standard; (viii) repossess and remarket any
Pledged Chassis in accordance with the terms of the Servicing Standard; (ix)
negotiate and maintain the insurances required by the Servicing Standard; (x)
investigate (at its own expense) the facts and circumstances surrounding each
casualty or event of loss with respect to the Pledged Chassis, collect or
arrange for payment from the appropriate Lessee or third party and process all
payment requests under the insurance policies with respect to such Pledged
Chassis; (xi) institute and prosecute claims against the manufacturers of the
Pledged Chassis as the Borrowers may consider advisable for breach of warranty,
any defect in condition, design, operation or fitness or other non-conformity
with the terms of manufacture; (xii) in connection with its performance of the
responsibilities and obligations, and exercise of rights, under a Lease as
 lessor,  minimize any abatement, reduction, recoupment, setoff,
defense or counterclaim by the related Lessee; (xiii) fully perform all
obligations under the Leases for which the nonperformance of such obligations
would create a setoff or counterclaim right by the applicable Lessee; and (xiv)
maintain a Lease File with respect to each Pledged Chassis.   

Section 9.7   Insurance .  

(a)  
Require each Lessee to maintain insurance on each Chassis both (i) as required
in the related Lease and (ii) in such forms and in such amounts as are customary
in the industry, and review each such insurance policy to ensure that it
comports with the terms of such Lease, including, but not limited to, causing
the Lessee on each renewal date to name a Borrower as a loss payee and an
additional insured under such insurance policy and requiring that the insurer
under such insurance policy notify the Borrowers of any renewal, cancellation,
termination or material alteration thereunder;  provided  that the
Borrowers may permit a Lessee to be self-insured with regard to the liability
insurance and/or the casualty insurance required under the Lease for so long as
such Lessee maintains an investment grade rating with respect to its long-term
unsecured debt obligations.  

(b)  
Have in effect, maintain and keep in force (i) a physical damage equipment
insurance policy and (ii) a commercial general liability insurance policy, each
in such forms and in such amounts, and with such insurers, as are customary in
the industry, which and shall name a Borrower and the Agent as additional
insureds (the  Additional Insureds ) as their interests shall appear.
The physical damage equipment insurance policy shall provide that violations of
the terms, conditions or warranties of such policy by an Additional Insured
shall not invalidate the insurance thereunder insofar as the interests of the
other Additional Insureds, loss payees and/or innocent mortgagees are concerned.
The physical damage equipment insurance policy shall pay the  Insured
Value  (as defined in the physical damage equipment insurance policy) of a
Pledged Chassis (which shall in no event be less than the related Net Book Value
of such Pledged Chassis) where a Lessee has failed to pay on behalf of the
Additional Insureds any or all of such amount.  

Section 9.8   Inspection of Properties and Books . Permit the
Agent or any of its designated representatives or agents, at any reasonable time
during business hours and at reasonable intervals of time, and upon reasonable
prior written notice (or, if a Default or an Event of Default shall have
occurred and then be continuing, at any time and without prior notice), to: (a)
visit, inspect and appraise the Pledged Chassis (subject to any Lessee s
right to quiet enjoyment therein) and properties of the Borrowers; (b) examine
and make copies of and take abstracts from the books and records of the
Borrowers, including, without limitation, Lease Files and Pledged Chassis
purchase orders and purchase agreements; and (c) discuss the affairs, finances
and accounts of the Borrowers with their appropriate officers, employees and
accountants. The Borrowers shall pay for the reasonable out-of-pocket cost and
expense (including,  inter alia , travel) of the Agent in conducting
(i) one (1) such inspection per calendar year, so long as no Default or
Event of Default has occurred or is then continuing, (ii) one (1) such appraisal
of the Collateral during the term of the Credit Facility, so long as no Default
or Event of Default has occurred or is then continuing, and (iii) all such
inspections and appraisals, if a Default or an Event of Default has occurred and
is then continuing.   

Section 9.9   Licenses and Permits . Cause all Pledged Chassis
which, under Applicable Law, are required to be registered, to be properly
registered in the name of Trac. If at any time while any of the Obligations are
outstanding or the Commitment (or any portion thereof) remains in effect, any
authorization, consent, approval, permit or license from any Governmental
Authority shall become necessary or required in order that a Borrower may
fulfill any of its obligations hereunder, such Borrower shall immediately take
or cause to be taken all steps reasonably necessary to obtain such
authorization, consent, approval, permit or license and furnish the Agent with
evidence thereof.   

Section 9.10   Notice of Material Claims and Litigation .
Promptly notify the Agent and each Lender of the commencement of any claims
(other than claims under a policy of insurance in amounts which, together with
any interest accrued thereon, do not exceed the face value of such policy),
actions, suits, proceedings or investigations of any kind pending or threatened
against Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, tribunal or
administrative-agency or board in an amount in excess of $5,000,000, or which,
either individually or in the aggregate, if adversely determined, could be
reasonably expected, to have a Materially Adverse Effect or materially impair
the right of Interpool and its Subsidiaries considered as a whole, or the
Borrowers considered individually, to carry on their respective businesses
substantially as now conducted, or which question the validity of this
Agreement, any Loan Document or any action taken or to be taken pursuant hereto
or thereto.   

Section 9.11   Further Assurances . Cooperate with the Agent and
take such further actions and execute such further instruments and agreements as
the Agent may reasonably request to carry out to the Agent s satisfaction
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.   

Section 9.12  Pension Plans . To the extent applicable:  

(a)  
Fund any Guaranteed Pension Plan as required by the provisions of Section 302 of
ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, and make all contributions to a Multiemployer
Plan required pursuant to any applicable collective bargaining
agreement.  

(b)  
Furnish promptly to the Agent a copy of any notice of termination of a
Guaranteed Pension Plan required to be sent to the PBGC and a copy of any report
or demand sent or received by or with respect to a Guaranteed Pension Plan
pursuant to   4041, 4041A, 4042, 4043, 4062, 4063, 4065, 4066 or 4068
of ERISA or under subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.  

(c)  
Furnish promptly to the Agent a copy of all Forms 5500, Forms 5500-C and/or
Forms 5500-R relating to a Guaranteed Pension Plan, together with all
attachments thereto, including any actuarial statement relating to a Guaranteed
Pension Plan required to be submitted under   103 (d) of ERISA.  

(d)  
Cause any Guaranteed Pension Plan to pay all benefits when due.  

(e)  
Furnish the Agent with copies of any request for waiver from the funding
standards or extension of the amortization periods required by Section 303 and
304 of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code, with respect to any Guaranteed Pension
Plan no later than the date on which the request is submitted to the Department
of Labor or the United States Internal Revenue Service, as the case may
be.  

(f)  
Promptly notify the Agent of any  complete withdrawal ,  partial
withdrawal  or  reorganization  with respect to any Multiemployer
Plan as such terms are defined in ERISA.  

(g)  
With respect to any Guaranteed Pension Plan, promptly notify the Agent upon the
occurrence of any  Reportable Event  as defined in ERISA.  

Section 9.13   Environmental and Safety Matters .  

(a)  
Immediately report to Agent and each Lender upon becoming aware thereof (a) the
introduction of any Hazardous Material onto any facility owned or operated by
Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries or any if the introduction thereof,
individually or in the aggregate, reasonably could be expected to have a
Materially Adverse Effect and (b) the initiation of any action, suit,
proceeding, investigation or regulatory action against Interpool or any of its
Subsidiaries or in connection with any such facility relating to any Release of
Hazardous Materials if, individually or in the aggregate, such could reasonably
be expected to have a Materially Adverse Effect.  

(b)  
Immediately deliver to Agent and each Lender copies of (a) all reports (other
than routine reports regularly submitted in the ordinary course of business)
submitted to any Governmental Authority by Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries
in connection with either the presence of Hazardous Materials at any facility
owned or operated by Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries or any other
environmental matter relating to such facility, and (b) all reports, notices,
and correspondence transmitted to Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries by any
Governmental Authority in connection with either the presence of any Hazardous
Materials at or near any such facility or any other environmental matter
relating to such facility.  

(c)  
Except for Hazardous Materials that Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries uses or
stores or that a lessee of Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries uses, stores or
transports in the ordinary course of its business and in compliance with all
Applicable Laws, keep all of their properties or assets free of Hazardous
Materials. Interpool and each of its Subsidiaries shall comply with and use
their best efforts to ensure compliance by all tenants and subtenants with all
Environmental Laws and all other Applicable Laws relating to occupational safety
or health and shall obtain and comply with, and use its best efforts to ensure
that all tenants and subtenants obtain and comply with, any and all approvals,
registrations or permits required thereunder. Interpool and each of its
Subsidiaries shall conduct and complete all investigations, studies, sampling
and testing, and all remedial, removal, and other action necessary to clean up
and remove all Hazardous Materials, on, from or affecting any of their
properties or assets as required by all Applicable Laws, except as such laws,
ordinances, rules, regulations, orders or directives may be contested by
Interpool and its Subsidiaries in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for
which adequate reserves have been established in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.  

(d)  
Defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the Agent, each Lender and each of their
respective directors, officers, employees, affiliates, representatives and
agents (each an  Indemnified Party ) from and against any and all
penalties, fines, liabilities, damages, costs, or expenses of whatever kind or
nature asserted against such Indemnified Party (unless resulting from the gross
negligence or willful misconduct of an Indemnified Party), arising out of, or in
any way related to: (a) the Release or threatened Release of any Hazardous
Materials on, at or from any property at any time owned, operated or occupied by
Interpool or any of its Subsidiaries; (b) any personal injury (including
wrongful death) or property damage (real or personal) arising out of or related
to such Hazardous Materials; (c) any lawsuit brought or threatened, settlement
reached, or government order relating to such Hazardous Materials, and/or (d)
any violation of Applicable Laws which are based upon or in any way related to
such Hazardous Materials or to any environmental matter, including reasonable
attorney and consultant fees, investigation and laboratory fees, court costs,
and litigation expenses actually incurred.  

Section 9.14   Payment of Wages . Comply at all times with the
United States Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended, including the provisions of
such Act relating to the payment of minimum and overtime wages as the same may
become due from time to time, if and to the extent that non-compliance could
reasonably be expected to have a Materially Adverse Effect.   

Section 9.15   Notice of Default . Promptly, upon becoming aware
thereof, give written notice to the Agent of: (a) the occurrence of any Default
or Event of Default, (b) any litigation or proceeding affecting Interpool or any
of its Subsidiaries or any of their properties or assets which, individually or
in the aggregate, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected to have
a Materially Adverse Effect, (c) any dispute between Interpool or any of its
Subsidiaries and any Governmental Authority that could reasonably be expected to
materially interfere with their normal business operations, and (d) any
Materially Adverse Effect.   

Section 9.16   OFAC . No Pledged Chassis shall be traded,
located, operated or used, directly or indirectly, in a Prohibited Jurisdiction
or by a Prohibited Person, and no Lessee or any sublessee shall be a Prohibited
Person or organized in a Prohibited Jurisdiction.   

Section 9.17   Possession of Eligible Chassis . The Borrowers
will at all times maintain possession of the Pledged Chassis, except (i) for
such time as such Pledged Chassis is in the possession of a Lessee pursuant to
the terms of a Lease, or (ii) for temporary delivery thereof to depot owners and
other Persons for repairs and maintenance made in the ordinary course of
business.   

Section 9.18   Lease Files . The Borrowers will maintain a Lease
File with respect to each Pledged Chassis and shall make such Lease Files
available for inspection pursuant to Section 9.8 hereof.   

Section 9.19   Investment Company . Each Borrower will conduct
their operations in a manner which will not subject them to registration as an
 investment company  under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as
amended.   

ARTICLE X 
 FINANCIAL COVENANTS      

Until all of the Obligations have been paid and satisfied in full and the
Commitments terminated, unless consent has been obtained in the manner set forth
in  Section 14.13  hereof, the Borrowers shall not:   

Section 10.1   Maximum Funded Debt to Tangible Net Worth Ratio .
At the end of each fiscal quarter (measured on the basis of the most recent
financial statements delivered pursuant to  Section 8.1  hereof), permit
the ratio of (a) Funded Debt to (b) Tangible Net Worth, to exceed the ratio of
4.0 to 1.   

Section 10.2   Minimum Tangible Net Worth . At the end of any
fiscal quarter (measured on the basis of the most recent financial statements
delivered pursuant to  Section 8.1  hereof), permit Tangible Net Worth to
be less than Three Hundred Million Dollars ($300,000,000).   

Section 10.3   Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio . At the end of any fiscal
quarter (measured on the basis of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant
to  Section 8.1  hereof), permit the ratio of (a) for the rolling four quarter period
ending on the last day of such quarter, the sum of (i) Earnings Available for Fixed
Charges, plus (ii) depreciation to (b) Fixed Charges for such period, to be less than 1.5
to 1   

Section 10.4   Additional Covenants . Incur, or permit any of its
Subsidiaries to incur, additional Indebtedness, or, on or after the Closing
Date, amend, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to amend, the documentation for
any Indebtedness outstanding on the Closing Date, so as to either (i) require or
incorporate additional financial covenants on any Borrower (beyond those set
forth in this Agreement), or (ii) amend covenants of the type set forth in
Section 10.1, 10.2 or 10.3 hereof in such a way as to make any such covenant
more restrictive (than provided for herein), unless the Borrowers shall promptly
(but in no event later than ten (10) Business Days thereafter) notify the Agent
and each Lender of such occurrence. If the Required Lenders so elect, then such
revised and/or financial covenants shall automatically be incorporated by
reference into this Agreement without the need for further action by any party
whatsoever. Thereupon, the Agent and each Lender shall have a separate and
independent right to enforce such revised and/or additional covenants.

ARTICLE XI 
 NEGATIVE COVENANTS    

Each
Borrower (except as expressly set forth below) covenants and agrees that, so
long as any Commitment has not been terminated or any Obligation is outstanding,
the Borrowers shall not and, to the extent expressly set forth below, shall not
permit any of their Subsidiaries, except with the prior written consent of the
Agent in each instance to:   

Section 11.1   Liens . Create, incur, assume or permit to exist
any Liens on the Collateral (including, without limitation, the Pledged Assets)
except Permitted Liens.   

Section 11.2   Distributions . Interpool shall not declare any
Distributions if any Event of Default of a type set forth in Section 12.1(a),
(b), (f), (g), (h), (j), (k) or (l), has occurred and is continuing.   

Section 11.3   Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets, Etc .
Become a party to any merger or consolidation, or take any action looking to the
dissolution or liquidation provided that so long as no Default or Event of
Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would not result as a result
thereof: (A) the merger or consolidation of a Subsidiary of any Borrower into
Interpool, or (B) the merger of any Subsidiary of any Borrower into any other
Subsidiary of any Borrower or (C) any consolidation or merger of Interpool for
which all of the following conditions precedent are satisfied:  

(a)  
if Interpool is not the surviving entity the person formed by such consolidation
or merger (each such corporation and each such person or entity being
hereinafter called a  Successor ), the Successor shall execute and
deliver to the Agent and each Lender (x) an agreement in form and substance
satisfactory to the Agent and each Lender containing an assumption by such
Successor of the due and punctual performance of each covenant and condition of
Interpool under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and (y) an opinion
of counsel as to the due execution, delivery and enforceability of such
agreement;  

(b)  
immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of
Default (including no breach of the financial covenants set forth in Article X
hereof) shall have occurred and be continuing, and the Successor shall have
delivered an officer s certificate to such effect;  

(c)  
the relevant Successor is, in the reasonable opinion of the Agent and each of
the Lenders, at least of the same creditworthiness, with at least the same level
of lease servicing experience, as Interpool immediately prior to such merger or
consolidation and, if not, such Successor provides each of the Lenders with
alternative security acceptable to each of the Lenders; and  

(d)  
after giving effect to such merger or consolidation, the Successor complies with
the then single obligor credit limitation for each of the Lenders.  

Section 11.4   ERISA . Permit any Plan maintained by it to (a)
engage in any  prohibited transaction  (as defined in Section 4975 of
the Code) which could reasonably be expected to result in material liability for
excise taxes or fiduciary liability under Section 406 of ERISA, (b) incur any
 accumulated funding deficiency  (as defined in Section 302 of ERISA)
whether or not waived, or (c) terminate any Plan in a manner that could result
in the imposition of a Lien or encumbrance on the assets of Interpool or any of
its Subsidiaries pursuant to Section 4068 of ERISA.   

Section 11.5   Public Utility Holding Company . Directly or
indirectly own, control or hold with power to vote any  voting
security  of an  electric utility company  or a  gas utility
company  or of a  holding company  holding any  voting
security  of either the foregoing, as such terms are defined in the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.   

Section 11.6   Transactions with Affiliates . Enter into or
permit to exist, directly or indirectly, any transaction with any Affiliate of
any Borrower with respect to or in connection with any of the Collateral, except
for transactions made on fair and reasonable terms which are no more favorable
to such Affiliate than would be obtained in a comparable arm s-length
transaction with a person that is not an Affiliate.   

Section 11.7    Dispositions of Collateral . The Borrowers shall
not sell, transfer, exchange or otherwise dispose of any of the Pledged Chassis
(and the Related Assets), except:   

(i)   in connection with a sale permitted pursuant
to  Section 11.3  hereof; 
 
(ii)   in connection with a substitution pursuant to  Section
6.8 ; 
 
(iii)   sales and disposition of Pledged Chassis (and the Related
Assets) for sales proceeds of not less than the sum of the Net Book Values of
the Pledged Chassis that were sold, regardless of whether an Event of Default is
then continuing or whether such sales are considered to have been made in the
ordinary course of business; provided that, to the extent required by Section
2.3(b), the proceeds of such disposition are used to make any mandatory
prepayment then required by Section 2.3(b) in accordance with such Section; 
 
(iv)  sales of Pledged Chassis in the ordinary course of business
(including any such sales resulting from the sell/repair decision of a Borrower)
regardless of the sales proceeds realized from such sales so long as an Event of
Default is not then continuing or would result from such sale of Pledged
Chassis; provided that, to the extent required by Section 2.3(b), the proceeds
of such disposition are used to make any mandatory prepayment then required by
Section 2.3(b) in accordance with such Section; and 
 
(v)  sales, transfers or exchanges of Pledged Chassis for which the
Agent, acting at the direction of the Required Lenders, shall have given its
prior written consent. 

Section 11.8   Amendment to or Waiver of Loan Documents . Amend,
modify or waive any of their rights under the provisions of any Loan Document
(regardless of whether such Loan Documents purport to allow amendment without
Agent s consent), without the prior written consent of the Agent; provided
that the Agent s consent shall not be required with regard to any waiver or
consent provided by a Borrower in favor of another party under the Intercreditor
Agreement or the Lockbox Agreement (to the extent enforcement of such waiver or
consent is not also sought against the Agent).   

ARTICLE XII 
 DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES     

Section 12.1   Events of Default . Each of the following shall
constitute an Event of Default, whatever the reason for such event and whether
it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or
pursuant to any judgment or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation
of any Governmental Authority or otherwise:   

(a)  
 Default in Payment of Principal of Loans and Reimbursement Obligations .
The Borrowers shall default in any payment of principal of any Loan or
Reimbursement Obligation when and as due (whether at maturity, by reason of
mandatory prepayment, acceleration or otherwise).  

(b)  
 Other Payment Default . The Borrowers shall default in the payment when
and as due (whether at maturity, by reason of mandatory prepayment, acceleration
or otherwise) of interest on any Loan or Reimbursement Obligation or the payment
of any other Obligation, and such default shall continue unremedied for three
(3) Business Days.  

(c)  
 Misrepresentation . Any representation or warranty made by the Borrowers
herein or in any other Loan Documents or in any other certificates, documents or
agreements executed in connection with the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement shall prove to have been false or incorrect in any material respect on
the date when made or deemed to have been made Lenders and, if such breach is
capable of cure, such inaccuracy continues unremedied for a period of thirty
(30) days after the date that any officer of any Borrower has knowledge of such
inaccuracy.  

(d)  
 Default in Performance of Certain Covenants . Any Borrower shall default
in the performance of or compliance with any of the covenants or agreements
contained in  Section 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 11.1  (as to Liens on Collateral
valued at 2% or more of the Borrowing Base),  11.2  or  11.3 
hereof.  

(e)  
 Default in Performance of Other Covenants and Conditions . Any Borrower
shall default in the performance of, or breach of or compliance with, any term
contained herein (other than those expressly referred to in this Section 12), or
in any of the other Loan Documents which could reasonably be expected to
materially and adversely affect the Agent or the Lenders, and such default, if
capable of cure, shall not have been remedied within thirty (30) days after the
date on which an officer of any Borrower has actual knowledge
thereof.  

(f)  
 Hedging Agreement . Any termination payment shall be due by any Borrower
under any Hedging Agreement and such amount is not paid within thirty (30)
Business Days of the due date thereof.  

(g)  
 Cross-Default . A default by any Borrower, or any Subsidiary of any
Borrower, has occurred and is continuing due to failure to make any payment when
due (beyond the applicable grace period with respect thereto, if any) with
respect to Indebtedness which, individually or in the aggregate, exceeds Five
Million Dollars ($5,000,000), any Borrower or Subsidiary shall have notice or
actual knowledge of such default, and either (i) the holder(s) of such
Indebtedness have exercised remedies against the obligor (including limiting
borrowings or advances) or have caused any Borrower or Subsidiary to retain or
employ a restructuring or crisis manager or specialist (other than
Interpool s independent public accountants or financial advisors) or (ii)
such default shall not have been (A) cured or (B) temporarily waived by the
applicable holder(s) of such Indebtedness within twenty (20) Business Days after
the later of such default or the expiration of any applicable grace period and,
in any event, with respect to any waiver, such default shall not have been
permanently waived within ninety (90) days after the later of such default or
the expiration of any applicable grace period.  

(h)  
 Other Cross-Defaults . A default by any Borrower, or any Subsidiary of any
Borrower, has occurred and is continuing with respect to the observance or
performance (beyond the applicable grace period with respect thereto, if any) of
any agreement or covenant relating to Indebtedness, which individually or in the
aggregate, exceed Twenty-Five Million Dollars ($25,000,000) or contained in any
instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto or any other
event or condition shall occur or condition exist, the effect of which default
or other event or condition is to cause, or permit, the holder or holders of
such Indebtedness (or trustee or agent on behalf of such holders) to cause such
Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity, any Borrower or
Subsidiary shall have notice or actual knowledge of such default, and either (i)
the holder(s) of such Indebtedness have exercised remedies against such Borrower
or Subsidiary (including limiting borrowings or advances for more than fifteen
(15) Business Days) or have caused such Borrower or Subsidiary to retain or
employ a restructuring or crisis manager or specialist (other than
Interpool s independent public accountants or financial advisors), or (ii)
such default shall not have been (A) cured or (B) temporarily waived by the
applicable holder(s) of such Indebtedness within sixty (60) days after the later
of such default or the expiration of any applicable grace period and, in any
event, with respect to any waiver, such default shall not have been permanently
waived within ninety (90) days after the later of such default or the expiration
of any applicable grace period.  

(i)  
 Change in Control . If a Change in Control shall occur.  

(j)  
 Voluntary Bankruptcy Proceeding . Any Borrower shall (i) commence a
voluntary case under the federal bankruptcy laws (as now or hereafter in
effect), (ii) file a petition seeking to take advantage of any other laws,
domestic or foreign, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, winding
up or composition for adjustment of debts, (iii) consent to or fail to
contest in a timely and appropriate manner any petition filed against it in an
involuntary case under such bankruptcy laws or other laws, (iv) apply for or
consent to, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, the
appointment of, or the taking of possession by, a receiver, custodian, trustee,
or liquidator of itself or of a substantial part of its property, domestic or
foreign, (v) admit in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due,
(vi) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or (vii) take
any corporate action for the purpose of authorizing any of the
foregoing.  

(k)  
 Involuntary Bankruptcy Proceeding . A case or other proceeding shall be
commenced against any Borrower in any court of competent jurisdiction seeking
(i) relief under the federal bankruptcy laws (as now or hereafter in
effect) or under any other laws, domestic or foreign, relating to bankruptcy,
insolvency, reorganization, winding up or adjustment of debts, or (ii) the
appointment of a trustee, receiver, custodian, liquidator or the like for such
Borrower for all or any substantial part of their respective assets, domestic or
foreign, and such case or proceeding shall continue without dismissal or stay
for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days, or an order granting the relief
requested in such case or proceeding (including, without limitation, an order
for relief under such federal bankruptcy laws) shall be entered.  

(l)  
 Failure of Agreements . Any provision of this Agreement or of any other
Loan Document shall for any reason cease to be valid and binding on any Borrower
and otherwise in full force and effect.  

(m)  
 Termination Event . The occurrence of any of the following events: (i) any
Borrower, any Subsidiary of any Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate fails to make
full payment when due of all amounts which, under the provisions of any Pension
Plan or Section 412 of the Code, such Borrower, Subsidiary or ERISA Affiliate is
required to pay as contributions thereto, (ii) an accumulated funding deficiency
in excess of $3,000,000 occurs or exists, whether or not waived, with respect to
any Pension Plan, (iii) a Termination Event or (iv) any Borrower, any Subsidiary
or any ERISA Affiliate as employers under one or more Multiemployer Plan makes a
complete or partial withdrawal from any such Multiemployer Plan and the plan
sponsor of such Multiemployer Plans notifies such withdrawing employer that such
employer has incurred a withdrawal liability requiring payments in an amount
exceeding $3,000,000.  

(n)  
 Judgment . A judgment or order for the payment of money which causes the
aggregate amount of all such judgments (except judgments covered by insurance,
as to which the insurer has not delivered a certificate denying coverage) to
exceed $5,000,000 shall be entered against any Borrower or any Subsidiary of any
Borrower by any court and such judgment or order shall continue without
discharge or stay for a period of thirty (30) days.  

(o)  
 Attachments . Any assets of any Borrower shall be subject to attachments,
levies, or garnishments for amounts in excess of $5,000,000 in the which
aggregate have not been dissolved or satisfied within thirty (30) days after
service of notice thereof to such Borrower.  

Section 12.2   Remedies . Upon the occurrence of an Event of
Default, with the consent of the Required Lenders, the Agent may, or upon the
request of the Required Lenders, the Agent shall, by notice to the Borrowers:

(a)  
 Acceleration; Termination of Facilities . Declare the principal of and
interest on the Loans, the Notes and the Reimbursement Obligations at the time
outstanding, and all other amounts owed to the Lenders and to the Agent under
this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents (other than any Secured
Hedging Agreement) (including, without limitation, all L/C Obligations, whether
or not the beneficiaries of the then outstanding Letters of Credit shall have
presented the documents required thereunder) and all other Obligations (other
than Derivatives Obligations), to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the
same shall immediately become due and payable without presentment, demand,
protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are expressly waived, anything
in this Agreement or the other Loan Documents to the contrary notwithstanding,
and terminate the Credit Facility and any right of the Borrowers to request
borrowings or Letters of Credit thereunder; provided, that upon the occurrence
of an Event of Default specified in  Section 12.1(j)  or  Section
12.1(k)  hereof, the Credit Facility shall be automatically terminated and
all Obligations (other than Derivatives Obligations) shall automatically become
due and payable.  

(b)  
 Letters of Credit . With respect to all Letters of Credit with respect to
which presentment for honor shall not have occurred at the time of an
acceleration pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the Borrowers shall deposit in
a cash collateral account opened by the Agent cash collateral as required by 
Section 3.3  hereof. Amounts held in such cash collateral account shall be
applied by the Agent to the payment of drafts drawn under such Letters of
Credit, and the unused portion thereof after all such Letters of Credit shall
have expired or been fully drawn upon, if any, shall be applied to repay the
other Obligations. After all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been
fully drawn upon, the Reimbursement Obligation shall have been satisfied and all
other Obligations shall have been paid in full, the balance, if any, in such
cash collateral account shall be returned to the Borrowers.  

(c)  
 Rights of the Agent to the Collateral, Deficiencies, Etc .  

(i)  
If any Event of Default shall have occurred and is then continuing, the Agent
may take (and/or may cause one or more of its designees to take) any or all of
the following actions:  

(A)  
prohibit any Borrower from taking any action with respect to the Collateral
otherwise permitted by this Agreement and the other Loan Document;  

(B)  
notify each of the mortgagors, obligors, lessees, issuers, custodians and other
parties with respect to or interested in any item of the Collateral of the
interest of the Agent therein or of any action proposed to be taken with respect
thereto, and direct one or more of those parties to make all payments,
distributions and proceeds otherwise payable to any Borrower with respect
thereto directly to the Agent or its order until notified by the Agent that all
the Obligations have been fully paid and satisfied;  

(C)  
receive and retain all payments, distributions and proceeds of any kind with
respect to any and all of the Collateral;  

(D)  
direct any Borrower, the Custodian or any other holder of Collateral to assemble
and deliver such Collateral to the Agent or its designee at such time(s) and
place(s) as the Agent from time to time may specify (subject to any
Lessee s right to quiet enjoyment under any Lease which is not a Defaulted
Lease), all without any risk or expense to the Agent; and enter any premises
where any item of Collateral may be located, with or without permission or
process of law but without breach of the peace, and seize and remove such
Collateral or remain upon such premises and use or dispose of such Collateral as
contemplated under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents;  

(E)  
request the judicial appointment of a receiver respecting the Collateral
(excluding funds in the possession of the Agent and such other Collateral as the
Agent may specify in its request) in any action, suit or proceeding in which
claims are asserted against the Collateral by the Agent or its designee,
irrespective of the solvency of any Borrower or any other person or the adequacy
of any collateral, and without notice to or the approval of any Borrower, which
receiver shall have the power to manufacture, operate, sell, lease or rent such
items of Collateral pending the sale of all of the Collateral and to collect the
rent, issues and profits therefrom, together with such other powers as may have
been requested by the Agent, and shall apply the amounts received (net of all
proper charges and expenses) to the Obligations as provided in this
Agreement;  

(F)   take
any action with respect to the offer, sale, lease or other disposition, and
delivery of the whole of, or from time to time any one or more items of, the
Collateral, including, without limitation: (A) to sell, assign, lease or
otherwise dispose of the whole of, or from time to time any part of, the
Collateral, or offer, commit or agree to do so, in any established market or at
any broker s board, private sale or public auction or sale (with or without
demand on any Borrower or any advertisement or other notice of the time, place
or terms of sale) for cash, credit or any other asset or property, for immediate
or future delivery, and for such consideration and upon such terms and subject
to such conditions as the Agent in its sole and absolute discretion may
determine, and the Agent may purchase (the consideration for which may consist
in whole or in part of cancellation of Indebtedness) or any other person may
purchase the whole or any one or more items of the Collateral, and all items
purchased shall be free and clear of any and all rights, powers, privileges,
remedies and interests of any Borrower (whether individual, joint, several or
otherwise), which any Borrower has expressly waived pursuant to Section 6.6
hereof; (B) to postpone or adjourn any such auction, sale or other disposition,
to cause the same to be postponed or adjourned from time to time to a subsequent
time and place, or to abandon or cause the abandonment of the same, all without
any advertisement or other notice thereof; and (C) to carry out any agreement to
sell any item or items of the Collateral in accordance with the terms and
provisions of such agreement, notwithstanding that, after the Agent shall have
entered into such an agreement, all the Obligations may have been paid and
satisfied in full;  

(G)  
exercise any voting, consent, enforcement or other right, power, privilege,
remedy or interest of any Borrower pertaining to any item of Collateral to the
same extent as if the Agent were the outright owner thereof;  

(H)   take
possession of and thereafter deal with or use from time to time all or any part
of the Collateral in all respects as if the Agent were the outright owner
thereof, which shall include, without limitation, the right to manufacture,
operate, sell, lease or rent items of Collateral, as well as to sell parts of
the Collateral pending the sale of all of the Collateral, and to collect the
rent, issues and profits therefrom;  

(I)  
transfer or cause the transfer of the ownership of all or any part of the
Collateral to its own name or any designee and have such transfer recorded in
any jurisdiction(s) and publicized in any manner deemed appropriate by the
Agent; and  

(J)   in
addition to, and not by way of limitation of, any of the rights specified above,
exercise or enforce any and all rights, powers, privileges, remedies and
interests afforded to the Agent under this Agreement, the other Loan Documents
and any and all provisions of Applicable Law (including, without limitation, the
UCC), whether as a secured party or mortgagee in possession of collateral or
otherwise.  

(ii)   The Agent shall collect the cash
proceeds received from any sale or other disposition or from any other source
contemplated by subsection (a) above, and, after deducting all costs and
expenses incurred by the Agent and any person designated by the Agent to take
any of the actions enumerated in subsection (a) above in connection with such
collection and sale or disposition (including attorneys  disbursements,
expenses and fees), the Agent shall apply the same in accordance with the terms
and provisions of this Agreement unless the Agent shall elect (in its sole and
absolute discretion) to retain the same as additional or substitute Collateral.
In the event any funds remain after satisfaction in full of the Obligations,
then the remainder shall be returned to the Borrowers, subject, however, to any
other rights or interests the Agent may have therein under any other instrument,
agreement or document or Applicable Law.  

(iii)   If the amount of all proceeds
received with respect to and in liquidation of the Collateral that shall be
applied to payment of the Obligations shall be insufficient to pay and satisfy
all of the Obligations in full, the Borrowers acknowledge and agree that they
shall remain liable for any deficiency, together with interest thereon and costs
of collection thereof (including attorneys  disbursements, expenses and
fees), in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the
other Loan Documents.  

(d)  
 Rights of Collection . Exercise on behalf of the Lenders all of their
other rights and remedies under this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and
Applicable Law, in order to satisfy all of the Borrowers 
Obligations.  

Section 12.3   Rights and Remedies Cumulative; Non-Waiver, etc .
The enumeration of the rights and remedies of the Agent and the Lenders set
forth in this Agreement is not intended to be exhaustive, and the exercise by
the Agent and the Lenders of any right or remedy shall not preclude the exercise
of any other rights or remedies, all of which shall be cumulative, and shall be
in addition to any other right or remedy given hereunder or under the Loan
Documents or that may now or hereafter exist in law or in equity or by suit or
otherwise. No delay or failure to take action on the part of the Agent or any
Lender in exercising any right, power or privilege shall operate as a waiver
thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right, power or
privilege preclude other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any
other right, power or privilege or shall be construed to be a waiver of any
Event of Default. No course of dealing between the Borrowers, the Agent and the
Lenders or their respective agents or employees shall be effective to change,
modify or discharge any provision of this Agreement or any of the other Loan
Documents or to constitute a waiver of any Event of Default.   

ARTICLE XIII 
 THE AGENT    

Section 13.1   Appointment . Each of the Lenders hereby
irrevocably designates and appoints National City as Agent of such Lender under
this Agreement and the other Loan Documents for the term hereof, and each such
Lender irrevocably authorizes National City as Agent for such Lender, to take
such action on its behalf under the provisions of this Agreement and the other
Loan Documents and to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are
expressly delegated to the Agent by the terms of this Agreement and such other
Loan Documents, together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental
thereto. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary elsewhere in this
Agreement or such other Loan Documents, the Agent shall not have any duties or
responsibilities, except those expressly set forth herein and therein, or any
fiduciary relationship with any Lender, and no implied covenants, functions,
responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into this
Agreement or the other Loan Documents or otherwise exist against the Agent. Any
reference to the Agent in this Article XIII shall be deemed to refer to the
Agent solely in its capacity as Agent and not in its capacity as a Lender.

Section 13.2   Delegation of Duties . The Agent may execute any
of their respective duties under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents by
or through agents or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of
counsel concerning all matters pertaining to such duties. The Agent shall not be
responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agents or attorneys-in-fact
selected by the Agent with reasonable care.   

Section 13.3   Exculpatory Provisions . Neither the Agent nor any
of their officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact, Subsidiaries
or Affiliates shall be (a) liable for any action lawfully taken or omitted to be
taken by it or such Person under or in connection with this Agreement or the
other Loan Documents (except for actions occasioned solely by its or such
Person s own gross negligence or willful misconduct), or (b) responsible in
any manner to any of the Lenders for any recitals, statements, representations
or warranties made by any Borrower or any officer thereof contained in this
Agreement or the other Loan Documents or in any certificate, report, statement
or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by the Agent under
or in connection with, this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or for the
value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of
this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or for any failure of any Borrower to
perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder. The Agent shall not be under
any obligation to any Lender to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or
performance of any of the agreements contained in, or conditions of, this
Agreement, or to inspect the properties, books or records of any Borrower.

Section 13.4    Reliance by the Agent . The Agent shall be
entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any note,
writing, resolution, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, cablegram,
telegram, telecopy, telex or teletype message, statement, order or other
document or conversation believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have
been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons and upon advice and
statements of legal counsel (including, without limitation, counsel to the
Borrowers), independent accountants and other experts selected by the Agent. The
Agent may deem and treat the payee of any Loan or Note as the owner thereof for
all purposes unless such Loan or Note shall have been transferred in accordance
with  Section 14.10  hereof. The Agent shall be fully justified in failing
or refusing to take any action under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents
unless it shall first receive such advice or concurrence of the Required Lenders
(or, when expressly required hereby or by the relevant other Loan Document, all
the Lenders) as it deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its
satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense which may
be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action
except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Agent shall in
all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this
Agreement and the other Loan Documents in accordance with a request of the
Required Lenders (or, when expressly required hereby, all the Lenders), and such
request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding
upon all the Lenders and all future holders of any Loan or Note.   

Section 13.5    Notice of Default . The Agent shall not be deemed
to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default
hereunder unless it has received notice from a Lender or the Borrowers referring
to this Agreement, describing such Default or Event of Default and stating that
such notice is a notice of default. In the event that the Agent receives such a
notice, it shall promptly give notice thereof to the Lenders. The Agent shall
take such action with respect to such Default or Event of Default as shall be
reasonably directed by the Required Lenders; provided that unless and until the
Agent shall have received such directions, the Agent may (but shall not be
obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect
to such Default or Event of Default as it shall deem advisable in the best
interests of the Lenders, except to the extent that other provisions of this
Agreement expressly require that any such action be taken or not be taken only
with the consent and authorization or the request of the Lenders or Required
Lenders, as applicable.   

Section 13.6    Non-Reliance on the Agent and Other Lenders .
Each Lender expressly acknowledges that neither the Agent nor any of its
respective officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact,
Subsidiaries or Affiliates has made any representations or warranties to it and
that no act by the Agent hereinafter taken, including, without limitation, any
review of the affairs of the Borrowers, shall be deemed to constitute any
representation or warranty by the Agent to any Lender. Each Lender represents to
the Agent that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any
other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it has deemed
appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business,
operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the
Borrowers and made its own decision to make its Loans and issue or participate
in Letters of Credit hereunder and enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also
represents that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or
any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem
appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals
and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement and the other
Loan Documents, and to make such investigation as it deems necessary to inform
itself as to the business, operations, property, financial and other condition
and creditworthiness of the Borrowers. Except for notices, reports and other
documents expressly required to be furnished to the Lenders by the Agent
hereunder or by the other Loan Documents, the Agent shall not have any duty or
responsibility to provide any Lender with any credit or other information
concerning the business, operations, property, financial and other condition or
creditworthiness of the Borrowers which may come into the possession of the
Agent or any of its respective officers, directors, employees, agents,
attorneys-in-fact, Subsidiaries or Affiliates.   

Section 13.7   Indemnification . The Lenders agree to indemnify
the Agent in its capacity as such and (to the extent not reimbursed by the
Borrowers and without limiting the obligation of the Borrowers to do so),
ratably according to the respective amounts of their Commitment Percentages,
from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages,
penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any
kind whatsoever which may at any time (including, without limitation, at any
time following the payment of the Notes or any Reimbursement Obligation) be
imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or
arising out of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, or any documents
contemplated by or referred to herein or therein or the transactions
contemplated hereby or thereby or any action taken or omitted by the Agent under
or in connection with any of the foregoing; provided that no Lender shall be
liable for the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses,
damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements
resulting solely from the Agent s bad faith, gross negligence or willful
misconduct. The agreements in this  Section 13.7  shall survive the payment
of the Loans, any Reimbursement Obligation and all other Obligations and amounts
payable hereunder and under any Loan Document and the termination of this
Agreement and the other Loan Documents.   

Section 13.8   The Agent in Its Individual Capacity . The Agent
and its respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates may make loans to, accept
deposits from and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrowers as
though the Agent were not an Agent hereunder. With respect to any Loans made or
renewed by it and any Note issued to it and with respect to any Letter of Credit
issued by it or participated in by it, the Agent shall have the same rights and
powers under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents as any Lender and may
exercise the same as though it were not an Agent, and the terms
 Lender  and  Lenders  shall include the Agent in its
individual capacity.   

Section 13.9   Resignation of the Agent; Successor Agent .
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor as provided below, the
Agent may resign at any time by giving notice thereof to the Lenders and the
Borrowers. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right
to appoint a successor Agent, which successor shall have minimum capital and
surplus of at least $500,000,000. If no successor Agent shall have been so
appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment
within thirty (30) days after the Agent s giving of notice of resignation,
then the Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Agent, which
successor shall have minimum capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000. Upon
the acceptance of any appointment as Agent hereunder by a successor Agent, such
successor Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all rights,
powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Agent, and the retiring Agent
shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. After any
retiring Agent s resignation hereunder as Agent, the provisions of this
 Section 13.9  shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any
actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as Agent.

ARTICLE XIV 
 MISCELLANEOUS     

Section 14.1   Notices .  

(a)  
 Method of Communication . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement,
all notices and communications hereunder shall be in writing, or by telephone
subsequently confirmed in writing. Any notice shall be effective if delivered by
hand delivery or sent via telecopy, recognized overnight courier service or
certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall be presumed to be received
by a party hereto (i) on the date of delivery if delivered by hand or sent by
telecopy or electronic mail, (ii) on the next Business Day if sent by recognized
overnight courier service and (iii) on the third Business Day following the date
sent by certified mail, return receipt requested. A telephonic notice to the
Agent as understood by the Agent will be deemed to be the controlling and proper
notice in the event of a discrepancy with or failure to receive a confirming
written notice.  

(b)  
 Addresses for Notices . Notices to any party shall be sent to it at the
following addresses, or any other address as to which all the other parties are
notified in writing.  

If
to any Lender: To the Address set forth on Schedule 1 hereto   

(c)  
 Agent s Office . The Agent hereby designates its office located at
the address set forth above, or any subsequent office which shall have been
specified for such purpose by written notice to the Borrowers and Lenders, as
the Agent s Office referred to herein, to which payments due are to be made
and at which Loans will be disbursed and Letters of Credit issued.  

Section 14.2   Expenses; Indemnity . The Borrowers will (a) pay
all out-of-pocket expenses of the Agent in connection with (i) the preparation,
execution and delivery of this Agreement and each other Loan Document, whenever
the same shall be executed and delivered, including, without limitation, all
out-of-pocket syndication and due diligence expenses and reasonable fees and
disbursements of counsel for the Agent and (ii) the preparation, execution and
delivery of any waiver, amendment or consent by the Agent or the Lenders
relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, including, without
limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Agent, (b) pay
all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Agent and each Lender actually
incurred in connection with the administration and enforcement of any rights and
remedies of the Agent and Lenders under the Credit Facility, including, without
limitation, consulting with appraisers, accountants, engineers, attorneys and
other Persons concerning the nature, scope or value of any right or remedy of
the Agent or any Lender hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any
factual matters in connection therewith, which expenses shall include, without
limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of such Persons, and (c)
defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Agent and the Lenders, and their
respective parents, Subsidiaries, Affiliates, employees, agents, officers and
directors, from and against any losses, penalties, fines, liabilities,
settlements, damages, costs and expenses, suffered by any such Person in
connection with any claim, investigation, litigation or other proceeding
(whether or not the Agent or any Lender is a party thereto) and the prosecution
and defense thereof, arising out of or in any way connected with the Agreement,
any other Loan Document or the Loans, including, without limitation, reasonable
attorney s and consultant s fees, except to the extent that any of the
foregoing directly result from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the
party seeking indemnification therefor.   

Section 14.3   Set-off . In addition to any rights now or
hereafter granted under Applicable Law and not by way of limitation of any such
rights, upon and after the occurrence of any Event of Default and during the
continuance thereof, the Lenders and any assignee or participant of a Lender in
accordance with  Section 14.10  hereof are hereby authorized by the
Borrowers at any time or from time to time, without notice to the Borrowers or
to any other Person, any such notice being hereby expressly waived, to set off
and to appropriate and to apply any and all deposits (general or special, time
or demand, including, without limitation, indebtedness evidenced by certificates
of deposit, whether matured or unmatured) and any other indebtedness at any time
held or owing by the Lenders, or any such assignee or participant to or for the
credit or the account of any Borrower against and on account of the Obligations
irrespective of whether or not (a) the Lenders shall have made any demand under
this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or (b) the Agent shall have
declared any or all of the Obligations to be due and payable as permitted by
 Section 12.2  hereof and although such Obligations shall be contingent or
unmatured.   

Section 14.4   Governing Law . EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY
PROVIDED IN ANY OF THE LOAN DOCUMENTS, IN ALL RESPECTS, INCLUDING ALL MATTERS OF
CONSTRUCTION, VALIDITY AND PERFORMANCE, THE LOAN DOCUMENTS AND THE OBLIGATIONS
SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE
INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING SECTIONS 5-1401 AND 5-1402 OF
THE GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO ANY CONFLICT
OF LAW PRINCIPLES CONTAINED THEREIN.   

Section 14.5   Consent to Jurisdiction; Service of Process .  

(a)  
EACH BORROWER HEREBY CONSENTS AND AGREES THAT THE STATE OR FEDERAL COURTS
LOCATED IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK, SHALL HAVE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION TO HEAR AND
DETERMINE ANY CLAIMS OR DISPUTES BETWEEN THE BORROWERS, THE AGENT AND THE
LENDERS PERTAINING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS OR TO
ANY MATTER ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE OTHER LOAN
DOCUMENTS; PROVIDED, THAT THE BORROWERS, THE AGENT AND THE LENDERS ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT ANY APPEALS FROM THOSE COURTS MAY HAVE TO BE HEARD BY A COURT LOCATED
OUTSIDE OF NEW YORK CITY AND; PROVIDED, FURTHER THAT NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT
SHALL BE DEEMED OR OPERATE TO PRECLUDE THE AGENT FROM BRINGING SUIT OR TAKING
OTHER LEGAL ACTION IN ANY OTHER JURISDICTION TO REALIZE ON THE COLLATERAL OR ANY
OTHER SECURITY FOR THE OBLIGATIONS, OR TO ENFORCE A JUDGMENT OR OTHER COURT
ORDER IN FAVOR OF THE AGENT.  

(b)  
EACH BORROWER EXPRESSLY SUBMITS AND CONSENTS IN ADVANCE TO SUCH JURISDICTION IN
ANY ACTION OR SUIT COMMENCED IN ANY SUCH COURT, AND EACH BORROWER HEREBY WAIVE
ANY OBJECTION THAT SUCH BORROWER MAY HAVE BASED UPON LACK OF PERSONAL
JURISDICTION, IMPROPER VENUE OR FORUM NON CONVENIENS AND HEREBY CONSENTS TO THE
GRANTING OF SUCH LEGAL OR EQUITABLE RELIEF AS IS DEEMED APPROPRIATE BY SUCH
COURT. EACH BORROWER HEREBY WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF THE SUMMONS, COMPLAINT
AND OTHER PROCESS ISSUED IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR SUIT AND AGREES THAT SERVICE OF
SUCH SUMMONS, COMPLAINTS AND OTHER PROCESS MAY BE MADE BY REGISTERED OR
CERTIFIED MAIL ADDRESSED TO SUCH BORROWER AT THE ADDRESS SET FORTH IN  SECTION
14.1  OF THIS AGREEMENT AND THAT SERVICE SO MADE SHALL BE DEEMED COMPLETED
UPON THE EARLIER OF SUCH BORROWER S ACTUAL RECEIPT THEREOF OR THREE (3)
DAYS AFTER DEPOSIT IN THE UNITED STATES MAILS, PROPER POSTAGE
PREPAID.  

Section 14.6   Waiver of Jury Trial; Preservation of Remedies .  

(a)  
 Jury Trial . THE AGENT, EACH LENDER AND EACH BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY
WAIVE THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO A JURY TRIAL WITH RESPECT TO ANY ACTION, CLAIM
OR OTHER PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF ANY DISPUTE, CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY ARISING OUT
OF, CONNECTED WITH, OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, THE NOTES OR ANY OTHER LOAN
DOCUMENT ( DISPUTE ) IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, THE NOTES OR
THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS, ANY RIGHTS OR OBLIGATIONS HEREUNDER OR THEREUNDER, OR
THE PERFORMANCE OF SUCH RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS.  

(b)  
 Preservation of Certain Remedies . The parties hereto and the other Loan
Documents preserve, without diminution, certain remedies that such Persons may
employ or exercise freely, either alone, in conjunction with or during a
Dispute. Each such Person shall have and hereby reserves the right to proceed in
any court of proper jurisdiction or by self help to exercise or prosecute the
following remedies: (i) all rights to foreclose against any real or personal
property or other security by exercising a power of sale granted in the Loan
Documents or under Applicable Law or by judicial foreclosure and sale, (ii) all
rights of self help including, without limitation, peaceful occupation of
property and collection of rents, set off, and peaceful possession of property,
(iii) obtaining provisional or ancillary remedies including, without
limitation, injunctive relief, sequestration, garnishment, attachment,
appointment of receiver and in filing an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding, and
(iv) when applicable, a judgment by confession of judgment.  

Section 14.7   Reversal of Payments . To the extent the Borrowers
make a payment or payments to the Agent for the ratable benefit of the Lenders
or the Agent receives any payment or proceeds of the collateral which payments
or proceeds or any part thereof are subsequently invalidated, declared to be
fraudulent or preferential, set aside and/or required to be repaid to a trustee,
receiver or any other party under any bankruptcy law, state or federal law,
common law or equitable cause, then, to the extent of such payment or proceeds
repaid, the Obligations or part thereof intended to be satisfied shall be
revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment or proceeds
had not been received by the Agent.   

Section 14.8   Injunctive Relief; Punitive Damages .  

(a)  
The Borrowers recognize that, in the event the Borrowers fail to perform,
observe or discharge any of their obligations or liabilities under this
Agreement, any remedy of law may prove to be inadequate relief to the Lenders.
Therefore, the Borrowers agree that the Lenders, at the Lenders  option,
shall be entitled to temporary and permanent injunctive relief in any such case
without the necessity of proving actual damages.  

(b)  
The Agent, Lenders and the Borrowers hereby agree that no such Person shall have
a remedy of punitive or exemplary damages against any other party to a Loan
Document and each such Person hereby waives any right or claim to punitive or
exemplary damages that they may now have or may arise in the future in
connection with any Dispute.  

(c)  
The parties agree that they shall not have a remedy of punitive or exemplary
damages against any other party in any Dispute and hereby waive any right or
claim to punitive or exemplary damages they have now or which may arise in the
future in connection with any Dispute.  

Section 14.9   Accounting Matters . All financial and accounting
calculations, measurements and computations made for any purpose relating to
this Agreement, including, without limitation, all computations utilized by any
Borrower to determine compliance with any covenant contained herein, shall,
except as otherwise expressly contemplated hereby or unless there is an express
written direction by the Agent to the contrary agreed to by the Borrowers, be
performed in accordance with GAAP as in effect on the Closing Date. In the event
that changes in GAAP shall be mandated by the Financial Accounting Standards
Board, or any similar accounting body of comparable standing, or shall be
recommended by the Borrowers  certified public accountants, to the extent
that such changes would modify such accounting terms or the interpretation or
computation thereof, such changes shall be followed in defining such accounting
terms only from and after the date the Borrowers and the Lenders shall have
amended this Agreement to the extent necessary to reflect any such changes in
the financial covenants and other terms and conditions of this Agreement.

Section 14.10   Successors and Assigns .  

(a)  
 Benefit of Agreement . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to
the benefit of the Borrowers, the Agent and the Lenders, all future holders of
the Notes, and their respective successors and assigns, except that the
Borrowers shall not assign or transfer any of their rights or obligations under
this Agreement without the prior written consent of each Lender.  

(b)  
 Assignment by Lenders . Each Lender may, with the consent of the Borrowers
(so long as no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing) and
the consent of the Agent, which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld,
assign to one or more Eligible Assignees all or a portion of its interests,
rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all
or a portion of the Extensions of Credit at the time owing to it and the Notes
held by it); provided that no assignment shall be made to a Prohibited
Institution and provided further that:  

(i)  
each such assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of
all the assigning Lender s rights and obligations under this
Agreement;  

(ii)   if
less than all of the assigning Lender s Commitment is to be assigned, the
Commitment so assigned shall not be less than $5,000,000;  

(iii)  
the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent, for
its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Acceptance in
the form of Exhibit H attached hereto (an  Assignment and
Acceptance ), together with any Note or Notes subject to such
assignment;  

(iv)  
such assignment shall not, without the consent of the Borrowers, require the
Borrowers to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission or apply to or qualify the Loans or the Notes under the blue sky laws
of any state;  

(v)   the
assigning Lender shall pay to the Agent an assignment fee of $3,500 upon the
execution by such Lender of the Assignment and Acceptance; provided that no such
fee shall be payable upon any assignment by a Lender to an Affiliate thereof;
and  

(vi)  
nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit in any manner any Lender from
pledging or assigning any Note to any Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with
Applicable Law.  

Upon
such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective
date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, which effective date shall be
at least five (5) Business Days after the execution thereof, (A) the assignee
thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent provided in such
Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereby
and (B) the Lender thereunder shall, to the extent provided in such assignment,
be released from its obligations under this Agreement.   

(c)    Rights and Duties Upon Assignment . By executing and
delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the assigning Lender thereunder and the
assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties
hereto as set forth in such Assignment and Acceptance.  

(d)  
 Register . The Agent shall maintain a copy of each Assignment and
Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and
addresses of the Lenders and the amount of the Extensions of Credit with respect
to each Lender from time to time (the  Register ). The entries in the
Register shall be conclusive, in the absence of manifest error, and the
Borrowers, the Agent and the Lenders may treat each person whose name is
recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this
Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers or
Lenders at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior
notice.  

(e)  
 Issuance of New Notes . Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance
executed by an assigning Lender and an Eligible Assignee together with any Note
or Notes subject to such assignment and the written consent to such assignment,
the Agent shall, if such Assignment and Acceptance has been completed and is
substantially in the form of Exhibit H attached hereto:  

(i) 
 accept such Assignment and Acceptance; 

(ii) 
 record the information contained therein in the Register; 

(iii) 
 give prompt notice thereof to the Lenders and the Borrowers; and 

(iv) 
 promptly deliver a copy of such Assignment and Acceptance to the Borrowers. 

Within five (5) Business Days after receipt of notice, the Borrowers shall
execute and deliver to the Agent, in exchange for the surrendered Note or Notes,
a new Note or Notes to the order of such Eligible Assignee in amounts equal to
the Commitment assumed by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance and a
new Note or Notes to the order of the assigning Lender in an amount equal to the
Commitment retained by it hereunder. Such new Note or Notes shall be in an
aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of such
surrendered Note or Notes, shall be dated the effective date of such Assignment
and Acceptance and shall otherwise be in substantially the form of the assigned
Notes delivered to the assigning Lender. Each surrendered Note or Notes shall be
canceled and returned to the Borrowers.   

Section 14.11   Participations . Each Lender may sell
participations to one or more banks or other entities (other than a Prohibited
Institution) in all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this
Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Extensions of
Credit and the Notes held by it); provided that:   

(a)  
each such participation shall be in an amount not less than
$5,000,000;  

(b)  
such Lender s obligations under this Agreement (including, without
limitation, its Commitment) shall remain unchanged;  

(c)  
such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the
performance of such obligations;  

(d)  
such Lender shall remain the holder of the Notes held by it for all purposes of
this Agreement;  

(e)  
the Borrowers, the Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and
directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender s rights and
obligations under this Agreement;  

(f)  
such Lender shall not permit such participant the right to approve any waivers,
amendments or other modifications to this Agreement or any other Loan Document
other than waivers, amendments or modifications which would reduce the principal
of or the interest rate on any Loan or Reimbursement Obligation, extend the term
or increase the amount of the Commitment, reduce the amount of any fees to which
such participant is entitled, extend any scheduled payment date for principal of
any Loan or, except as expressly contemplated hereby or thereby, release
substantially all of the Collateral; and  

(g)  
any such disposition shall not, without the consent of the Borrowers, require
the Borrowers to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission to apply to qualify the Loans or the Notes under the blue sky law of
any state.  

Section 14.12   Disclosure of Information; Confidentiality . The
Agent and the Lenders shall hold all non-public information with respect to the
Borrowers obtained pursuant to the Loan Documents in accordance with their
customary procedures for handling confidential information; provided that the
Agent and Lenders may disclose any such information to the extent such
disclosure is required by law or requested by any regulatory authority. Any
Lender may, in connection with any assignment, proposed assignment,
participation or proposed participation pursuant to  Section 14.10  or
 Section 14.11  hereof, disclose to the assignee, participant, proposed assignee or
proposed participant, any information relating to the Borrowers furnished to such Lender
by or on behalf of the Borrowers; provided, that prior to any such disclosure, each such
assignee, proposed assignee, participant or proposed participant shall agree with the
Borrowers or such Lender to preserve the confidentiality of any confidential information
relating to the Borrowers received from such Lender.   

Section 14.13   Amendments, Waivers and Consents . Except as set
forth below, any term, covenant, agreement or condition of this Agreement or any
of the other Loan Documents (other than any Secured Hedging Agreement, the terms
and conditions of which may be amended, modified or waived by the parties
thereto) may be amended or waived by the Lenders, and any consent given by the
Lenders, if, but only if, such amendment, waiver or consent is in writing signed
by the Required Lenders (or by the Agent with the consent of the Required
Lenders) and delivered to the Agent and, in the case of an amendment, signed by
the Borrowers; provided, that no amendment, waiver or consent shall: (a)
increase the amount or extend the time of the obligation of the Lenders to make
Loans or issue or participate in Letters of Credit (including, without
limitation, pursuant to  Section 3.6  hereof), (b) extend the originally
scheduled time or times of payment of the principal of any Loan or Reimbursement
Obligation or the time or times of payment of interest on any Loan or
Reimbursement Obligation, (c) reduce the rate of interest or fees payable on any
Loan or Reimbursement Obligation, (d) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or
Reimbursement Obligation, (e) permit any subordination of the principal or
interest on any Loan or Reimbursement Obligation, (f) permit any assignment
(other than as specifically permitted or contemplated in this Agreement) of any
of the Borrowers  rights and obligations hereunder, (g) release any
material portion of the Collateral (other than as specifically permitted or
contemplated in this Agreement), (h) amend the provisions of this  Section
14.13  or the definition of Required Lenders, or (i) waive the provisions of
 Section 5.2 , without the prior written consent of each Lender. In
addition, no amendment, waiver or consent to the provisions of (a) Article XIII
hereof shall be made without the written consent of the Agent and (b) Article
III hereof without the written consent of the Issuing Lender.   

Section 14.14   Agreement Controls . In the event there is a
conflict or inconsistency between this Agreement and any other Loan Document,
the terms of this Agreement shall control.   

Section 14.15   Covenants Independent . Each Borrower expressly
acknowledges and agrees that each covenant contained in Articles IX, X or XI
hereof shall be given independent effect. Accordingly, the Borrowers shall not
engage in any transaction or other act otherwise permitted under any covenant
contained in Articles IX, X or XI hereof if, before or after giving effect to
such transaction or act, any Borrower shall or would be in breach of any other
covenant contained in Articles IX, X or XI hereof.   

Section 14.16   Survival . Notwithstanding any termination of
this Agreement, the indemnities to which the Agent and the Lenders are entitled
under the provisions of this Article XIV and any other provision of this
Agreement and the Loan Documents shall continue in full force and effect and
shall protect the Agent and the Lenders against events arising after such
termination as well as before.   

Section 14.17   Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in
any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate
counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original
and shall be binding upon all parties, their successors and assigns, and all of
which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.   

Section 14.18   Headings . Titles and captions of Articles,
Sections and subsections in this Agreement are for convenience only, and neither
limit nor amplify the provisions of this Agreement.   

Section 14.19   Severability . Any provision of this Agreement or
any other Loan Document which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction
shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective only to the extent of such
prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remainder of such
provision or the remaining provisions hereof or thereof or affecting the
validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction.  

Section 14.20   Entirety . This Agreement together with the other
Loan Documents represents the entire agreement of the parties hereto and thereto, and
supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, oral and written, if any, including
any commitment letters or correspondence relating to the Loan Documents or the
transactions contemplated herein or therein, except those obligations which survive under
the Fee Letter.   

Section 14.21   Termination . This Agreement shall remain in
effect from the Closing Date through and including the date upon which all
Commitments have been terminated and all Obligations shall have been
indefeasibly and irrevocably paid and satisfied in full. The Agent is hereby
permitted to release all Liens on the Collateral in favor of the Agent, for the
ratable benefit of itself and the Lenders, upon repayment in cash of the
outstanding principal of and all accrued interest on the Loans, payment of all
outstanding fees and expenses hereunder and the irrevocable termination of the
Commitments. No termination of this Agreement shall affect the rights and
obligations of the parties hereto arising prior to such termination.   

Section 14.22   Payment of Borrowers  Obligations . The
Borrowers  obligations under this Agreement and each of the Loan Documents
shall be performed by the Borrowers at their sole cost and expense.   

Section 14.23   Powers of Attorney and Authorizations
Irrevocable . All powers of attorney and other authorizations granted to the
Lenders, the Agent and any Persons designated by the Agent or any Lender
pursuant to any provisions of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents
shall be deemed coupled with an interest and shall be irrevocable so long as any
of the Obligations remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any of the Commitments has
not been terminated.   

Section 14.24   USA Patriot Act.  Each Lender that is subject to
the requirements of the Patriot Act hereby notifies each Borrower that pursuant
to the requirements of the Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and
record information that identifies each Borrower, which information includes the
name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such
Lender to identify each Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act, and each
Borrower hereby agrees to deliver such information to the Lenders as may be
requested.   

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Credit and Security
Agreement to be executed under seal by their duly authorized officers, all as of
the day and year first written above.   

INTERPOOL, INC., as a Borrower 

By:             

Name: 
        Title: 
 
TRAC LEASE, INC., as a Borrower 

By:             

Name: 
        Title: 

[Borrowers 
signature page to Credit and Security Agreement]    

NATIONAL CITY BANK, 
as Agent and as a Lender 

By:             

Name: Michael J. Labrum 
        Title: Senior Vice President 

[Agent's signature page to Credit and Security
Agreement]   

HSH NORDBANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH, as a Lender 
 
By:             

Name: 
        Title: 
 
By:             

Name: 
        Title: 

[Lender
signature page to Credit and Security Agreement]    

DVB BANK AG, as a Lender 

By:             

Name: 
        Title: 
 
By:             

Name: 
        Title: 

[Lender signature page
to Credit and Security Agreement]    

CREDIT INDUSTRIEL ET COMMERCIAL, 
NEW YORK BRANCH, as a Lender 

By:             

Name: 
        Title: 
 
By:             

Name: 
        Title: 

[Lender signature
page to Credit and Security Agreement]    

BAYERISCHE HYPO-UND VEREINSBANK AG, 
NEW YORK BRANCH, as a Lender 

By:             

Name: 
        Title: 
 
By:             

Name: 
        Title: 

[Lender signature page
to Credit and Security Agreement]    

LASALLE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, 
as a Lender 
 
By:             

Name: 
        Title: 

[Lender signature
page to Credit and Security Agreement]    

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 11
 interpool-ex1050_030906.htm
 EX-10.50

Exhibit 10.50 

EXECUTION VERSION   

   CREDIT AGREEMENT   

  Dated as of 
December 21, 2005   

  among  

  INTERPOOL CONTAINER FUNDING II, SRL, 
as the Borrower  

  INTERPOOL, INC., 
as the Parent Guarantor   

  FORTIS CAPITAL CORP., 
as the Agent   

  and  

  THE LENDERS NAMED HEREIN  

   TABLE OF CONTENTS   

   Page   

SECTION 1. 
 DEFINITIONS; RULES OF INTERPRETATION. 
 1 

Section 2.5 
 Revolving Credit Facility/Term Loan Facility 
 42 

Section 2.9 
 Additional Costs and Expenses; Reserve Charge; Capital Requirements 
 44 

Section 2.11 
 Subordination of Class B Notes; Pro Rata Treatment of Notes of Same Class 
 46 

SECTION 3. 
 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. 
 57 

Section 3.1 
 Corporate Existence and Good Standing, Etc. 
 57 

Section 3.2 
 Corporate Power; Consents; Absence of Conflict with Other
Agreements, Etc. 
 57 

Section 3.7 
 No Materially Adverse Contracts, Etc. 
 58 

Section 3.8 
 Compliance with Other Instruments, Laws, Etc. 
 59 

Section 3.13 
 Patents, Copyrights, Permits, Trademarks, Licenses and Leases 
 61 

Section 3.17 
 Holding Company and Investment Company Acts 
 61 

Section 3.22 
 Survival of Representations and Warranties, Etc. 
 62 

SECTION 4. 
 CONDITIONS TO CLOSING ON CLOSING DATE. 
 64 

Section 4.4 
 Delivery of Officer's Certificate 
 64 

Section 4.7 
 Delivery of Charter and Other Documents 
 64 

Section 4.8 
 Opinions of the Borrower's, Parent Guarantor's, Servicer's and
Interpool Limited's Counsel 
 65 

Section 4.16 
 No Defaults; Absence of Material Adverse Change 
 66 

Section 4.17 
 Lockbox Agreement and Intercreditor Agreement 
 66 

SECTION 5. 
 CONDITIONS TO EACH FUNDING DATE. 
 67 

Section 5.2 
 No Default; Expiration of Revolving Credit Period 
 68 

Section 5.5 
 Copies of Purchase Documentation, Invoices, Bills of Sale and Other Title Documents 
 68 

SECTION 6. 
 AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS. 
 69 

Section 6.3 
 Records and Accounts; Collateral Tracking System 
 69 

Section 6.4 
 Financial Statements, Certificates and Information 
 69 

Section 6.5 
 Business and Corporate Existence 
 71 

Section 6.9 
 Inspection of Properties and Books 
 73 

Section 7.2 
 Maximum Funded Debt to Tangible Net Worth 
 81 

Section 7.7 
 Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets, Etc. 
 81 

SECTION 16. 
 PARTIES IN INTEREST; SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS. 
 99 

EXHIBITS AND SCHEDULES   

Exhibit A 
 Form of Class A Note 

Exhibit B 
 Form of Class B Note 

Exhibit C 
 Form of Borrowing Notice 

Exhibit D 
 Form of CAI Notice of Assignment 

Exhibit E-1 
 Form of Opinion of Borrower Counsel 

Exhibit E-2 
 Form of Opinion of Seller/Servicer/Interpool Containers Counsel 

Exhibit F 
 Form of Opinion of Parent Guarantor Counsel 

Exhibit G 
 Form of Servicing Agreement 

Exhibit H 
 Form of Compliance Certificate 

Exhibit I 
 Form of Assignment and Acceptance 

Exhibit J 
 Form of Security Agreement 

Exhibit K-1 
 Form of Parent Guaranty 

Exhibit K-2 
 Form of Performance Guaranty 

Exhibit L 
 Form of Contribution and Sale Agreement 

Exhibit M 
 
Form of Lockbox Agreement

Exhibit N 
 
Form of Intercreditor and Lockbox Administration Agreement

Schedule 3.16 
 
Subsidiaries of Parent Company

Schedule 4 
 
Funding Commitments of Lender and Payment Instructions

Schedule 4.16 
 Leases with No Original 

Schedule 5 
 Post Revolving Period Advance Rate 

Schedule 6 
 Post Closing Leases 

CREDIT AGREEMENT   

This CREDIT AGREEMENT (as amended, modified or supplemented in accordance with
the terms hereof, the  Agreement ), dated as of December 21, 2005, is
among INTERPOOL CONTAINER FUNDING II, SRL, a society with restricted liability
organized under the Societies with Restricted Liabilities Act, 1995-7 (together
with its successors and permitted assigns, the  Borrower ), INTERPOOL,
INC., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware (together
with its successors and permitted assigns, the  Parent Guarantor ), the
banks and other financial institutions whose signatures appear at the end of
this Agreement or that join this Agreement as Lender parties from time to time
(each individually, a  Lender  and collectively, the  Lenders ) and
FORTIS CAPITAL CORP., a company organized under the laws of the State of
Connecticut, as administrative agent for the Lenders and as
 representative  (as referred to in the UCC) (in such capacity, the
 Agent ).   

WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested, and the Lenders have agreed to provide on
the terms and conditions set forth herein, a credit facility which provides for
revolving credit loans and term loans to the Borrower for the purposes set forth
in   Section 3.14    ;   

NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DECLARED AND AGREED AS FOLLOWS:   

SECTION 1.  
  DEFINITIONS; RULES OF INTERPRETATION.  

Section 1.1      Definitions  . The
following terms shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them below in
this   Section 1   or in the provisions of this Agreement referred to
below:   

Additional Container . This term shall have the meaning set forth in the
Contribution and Sale Agreement.   

Adjusted EBIT Ratio . With respect to the Borrower as of the last day of
each fiscal quarter, the ratio of (i) EBIT of the Borrower for the four fiscal
quarters then ended, to (ii) the excess of (x) the Interest Expense of the
Borrower for the four fiscal quarters then ended, over (y) for the period from
the Closing Date to and including September 30, 2006, that portion of the
Interest Expense of the Borrower for the four fiscal quarters then ended that
was accrued with respect to the Class B Notes (if any) and thereafter, zero. For
each of the first four fiscal quarters that end subsequent to the Closing Date,
the Adjusted EBIT Ratio of the Borrower will be calculated as follows:

(1) 
 
for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005, the EBIT and Interest Expense of
Interpool Container Funding, SRL for the four most recently completed fiscal
quarters ending on December 31, 2005 will be utilized;

(2) 
 
for the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2006, the EBIT and Interest Expense of
the Borrower for the fiscal quarter then ended will be utilized in addition to
the EBIT and Interest Expense of Interpool Container Funding, SRL for the three
most recently completed fiscal quarters ending on December 31, 2005;

(3) 
 
for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006, the EBIT and Interest Expense of the
Borrower for each of the two most recently completed fiscal quarters will be
utilized in addition to the EBIT and Interest Expense of Interpool Container
Funding, SRL for each of the two fiscal quarters ending on December 31, 2005;
and

(4) 
 
for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006, the EBIT and Interest Expense
of the Borrower for each of the three most recently completed fiscal quarters
will be utilized in addition to the EBIT and Interest Expense of Interpool
Container Funding SRL for the fiscal quarter ended on December 31, 2005.

Affiliate . With respect to any specified Person, any other Person (i)
which directly or indirectly controls, or whose directors or officers directly
or indirectly control, or is controlled by, or is under common control with,
such specified Person, (ii) which beneficially owns or holds, or whose directors
or officers beneficially own or hold, 5% or more of any class of the Voting
Stock (or, in the case of an entity that is not a corporation, 5% of the Equity
Interest) of such specified Person, or (iii) 5% or more of the Voting Stock (or,
in the case of an entity that is not a corporation, 5% of the equity interest)
of which is owned or held by such specified Person. The term  control 
means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause
the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the
ownership of Voting Stock, by contract, or otherwise; and the terms
 controlling  and  controlled  have meanings correlative to
the foregoing.   

Agent . Fortis Capital Corp., a company organized under the laws of the
State of Connecticut, acting in the capacity of administrative agent and as
 representative  (as referred to in the UCC) for itself and the other
Lenders under this Agreement, and any other banking institution succeeding to
and for the time being acting in such capacity.   

Agent Fee . The amount set forth in the Agent Fee Letter.   

Agent Fee Letter . The Agent Fee Letter, dated as of December 21, 2005,
among the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor and the Agent.   

Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balance . As of any date of
determination, an amount equal to the sum of the then unpaid principal balance
of all Class A Notes.   

Aggregate Class B Note Principal Balance . As of any date of
determination, an amount equal to the sum of the then unpaid principal balance
of all Class B Notes.   

Aggregate Commitments . As of any date of determination, an amount equal
to the sum of the Commitment Amounts in effect from time to time with respect to
all of the Class A Lenders.   

Aggregate Finance Lease Value . As of any date of determination, an amount
equal to the sum of the Finance Lease Values of all Eligible Leases then subject
to the Lien created by the Security Agreement and that is perfected and of first
priority, subject only to Permitted Liens.   

Aggregate Maximum Guaranteed Payment . This term shall have the meaning
set forth in the Parent Guaranty.   

Aggregate Net Book Value . As of any date of determination, an amount
equal to the sum of the then Net Book Values of all Eligible Containers not then
subject to a Finance Lease.   

Aggregate Note Principal Balance.  As of any date of determination, an
amount equal to the sum of the then unpaid principal balances of all Class A
Notes and all Class B Notes.   

Agreement . This Credit Agreement, together with all Exhibits and
Schedules hereto, as originally executed, or if amended, restated, modified or
supplemented from time to time, as so amended, restated, modified or
supplemented.   

Applicable Law . With reference to any Person, all laws, statutes,
regulations, ordinances, treaties, judgments, decrees, injunctions, writs and
orders of any court, governmental agency or authority and rules, regulations,
orders, directives, licenses and permits of any Governmental Authority
applicable to such Person or its property or in respect of its operations.

Asset Base Certificate . This term shall have the meaning set forth in the
Servicing Agreement.   

Authorized Officer . Any person holding the title of Chairman, Chief
Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer, Controller or Treasurer
(or other authorized officer performing the functions thereof).   

Availability . With respect to any Class A Lender as of any date of
determination, an amount equal to the lesser of (i) its then Unused Commitment
and (ii) the product of (x) the Commitment Percentage of such Class A Lender and
(y) the Class A Asset Base (calculated after giving effect to the addition of
the Eligible Containers and/or Eligible Leases to be acquired with the proceeds
of such Credit Loan).

Borrower . Interpool Container Funding II, SRL, a society with restricted
liability organized under the laws of Barbados, and its successors and permitted
assigns.   

Borrower Expenses . With respect to any Collection Period, an amount equal
to the overhead and other selling, general and administrative expenses of the
Borrower (other than the amounts that are expressly excluded below) payable
during such Collection Period (including costs and expenses permitted to be paid
by the Servicer, on behalf of the Borrower, in connection with the conduct of
the Borrower s business), in each case determined on a cash basis,
including, but not limited to, all of the following, in each case to the extent
incurred by, or on behalf of, the Borrower:   

(A)     administration expenses of the Borrower
including, without limitation, any fees and expenses payable by the Borrower
with respect to the SRL Assets (as such term is defined in the Lockbox
Agreement) in accordance with Section 5.1 of the Lockbox Agreement;

(B)     accounting and audit expenses of the Borrower,
and tax preparation, filing and audit expenses of the Borrower;

(C)     premiums for liability, casualty, insurance for
the Borrower and fidelity and directors and officers insurance for the officers
and directors of the Borrower;

(D)     the fees and expenses of the directors of the
Borrower, including fees and expenses of the Independent Person serving as a
quotaholder of the Borrower;

(E)     legal fees and expenses of the Borrower;

(F)     other professional fees incurred by the
Borrower;

(G)     taxes, if any, payable by the Borrower
(including personal or other property taxes and all sales, value added, use and
similar taxes but excluding any such amounts that are included as a Direct
Operating Expense); and

(H)     taxes imposed on the Borrower in respect of any
and all issuances of equity interests, stock exchange listing fees, registrar
and transfer expenses and trustee s fees with respect to any outstanding
securities of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, Borrower Expenses shall not
include (i) Direct Operating Expenses, (ii) any Servicing Fee, (iii) any Agent
Fee, (iv) depreciation or amortization on the Containers and (v) payments of
principal, interest and premium, if any, on or with respect to the Notes.

Borrowing Notice.  A request for funding of a Credit Loan substantially in
the form of  Exhibit C  hereto and accompanied by all of the following:
(i) the most recently delivered Servicer Report, (ii) an Asset Base
Certificate, (iii) a Compliance Certificate and (iv) a report demonstrating
compliance with the Hedging Requirements.   

Business Day . Any day other than (i) a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or
other day on which banks in Rotterdam, The Netherlands or New York, New York are
required or permitted by law to close, or (ii) for purposes of determining the
Eurodollar Rate applicable to an Interest Period or any notice in respect of the
foregoing, a day in which dealings in Dollars are not transacted in London,
England.   

CAI . Container Applications International, Inc., a Nevada corporation.

CAI Agreement . To the extent that it relates to the Containers, the
Operating and Administration Agreement, dated as of April 29, 1998, between CAI,
and Interpool Limited, as such agreement may be amended, modified or
supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms and the terms of the
Loan Documents.   

CAI Agreement Restructuring . CAI implements a lockbox arrangement or
other arrangement acceptable to the Agent (acting at the direction of the
Majority Lenders) that limits CAI s access to lease proceeds relating to
the Borrower s containers (other than for the payment of Direct Operating
Expenses associated with the Borrower s Containers) pending distribution of
such funds to the Borrower.   

CAI Servicer Default . A Servicer Default of the type described in Section
7.01(xvi) of the Servicing Agreement.   

Capitalized Leases . Any lease agreement pursuant to which the Parent
Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries is the lessee and the lessee s
obligations under which are required to be reflected as liabilities on a balance
sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP.   

Capitalized Lease Obligations . All obligations of the Parent Guarantor
and its Subsidiaries under Capitalized Leases, as reflected on a balance sheet
prepared in accordance with GAAP.   

Cash Collateral Account . As defined in   Section 9(h)  .

Cash Equivalents . Any of the following: (a) marketable direct obligations
issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States government or
issued by any agency thereof and backed by the full faith and credit of the
United States, in each case maturing within twelve months from the date of
acquisition; (b) certificates of deposit and eurodollar time deposits with
maturities of twelve months or less from the date of acquisition and overnight
bank deposits of any Lender or of any commercial bank having capital and surplus
in excess of $300,000,000 or, so long as such investments do not exceed Two
Million Dollars ($2,000,000), Yardville National Bank; (c) commercial paper of a
domestic issuer rated at least A-1 by S P or P-1 by Moody s, or
carrying an equivalent rating by a nationally recognized rating agency, if both
of the two named rating agencies cease publishing ratings of commercial paper
issuers generally, and maturing within twelve months from the date of
acquisition; (d) repurchase obligations of any commercial bank satisfying the
requirements of clause (b) of this definition, having a term of not more than
seven (7) days, with respect to securities issued or fully guaranteed or insured
by the United States government; (e) securities with maturities of twelve months
or less from the date of acquisition issued or fully guaranteed by any state,
commonwealth or territory of the United States, by any political subdivision or
taxing authority of any such state, commonwealth or territory or by any foreign
government, the securities of which state, commonwealth, territory, political
subdivision, taxing authority or foreign government (as the case may be) are
rated at least A by S P or A by Moody  (f) securities with maturities
of twelve months or less from the date of acquisition backed by standby letters
of credit issued by any commercial bank satisfying the requirements of clause
(b) of this definition; or (g) shares of money market mutual or similar funds
which invest exclusively in assets satisfying the requirements of clauses (a)
through (f) of this definition).   

Casualty Item . Any Eligible Container that has become the subject of an
Event of Loss.   

Change of Control . The occurrence of existence of either of following
events or conditions:   

(A) 
 
with respect to Interpool Containers and without the prior written consent of
the Majority Lenders, if, (i) with the exception of Interpool Limited and
Interpool Inc., any Person, or two or more Persons acting in concert, shall have
acquired beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the
combined economic and/or voting interests in Interpool Containers, or (ii) any
Person referred to in the foregoing clause (i), or two or more such Persons
acting in concert, shall have acquired by contract or otherwise, or shall have
entered into a contract or arrangement that, upon consummation, will result in
its or their acquisition of the power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a
controlling influence over the composition of the board of directors or other
similar management body of Interpool Containers, or otherwise over the
management or policies of Interpool Containers; or

(B) 
 
with respect to Interpool Limited and without the prior written consent of the
Majority Lenders, if, (i) with the exception of Interpool Inc., any Person, or
two or more Persons acting in concert, shall have acquired beneficial ownership,
directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the combined economic and/or voting
interests in Interpool Limited, or (ii) any Person referred to in the foregoing
clause (i), or two or more such Persons acting in concert, shall have acquired
by contract or otherwise, or shall have entered into a contract or arrangement
that, upon consummation, will result in its or their acquisition of the power to
exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence over the composition
of the board of directors or other similar management body of Interpool Limited,
or otherwise over the management or policies of Interpool Limited.

Class A Applicable Margin . With respect to each Class A Note for each
Interest Period, one of the following amounts:   

(A) 
 
one and one half percent (1.5%) per annum for each Interest Period in which the
long-term unsecured indebtedness of the Parent Guarantor is rated at least
 BBB-  by S P and  Baa3  by Moody s on the first
day of such Interest Period (regardless of the then level of the Parent
Guarantor s ratio of Funded Debt to Tangible Net Worth);

(B) 
 
one and three quarters percent (1.75%) per annum for each Interest Period in
which either one of the following conditions existed as of the first day of such
Interest Period: (i) the long-term unsecured indebtedness of the Parent
Guarantor is rated at least  BB+  but less than  BBB-  by
S P and at least  Ba1 , but less than  Baa3  by
Moody s, or (ii) unless the requirement in clause (A) has been satisfied,
the Parent Guarantor s ratio of (x) Funded Debt to (y) Tangible Net Worth
is equal to or less than 3.0 to 1.0; or

(C) 
 
two percent (2%) per annum at all times not covered by (A) or (B).

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following modifications to
the amount set forth in clauses (A), (B) and (C) shall apply:   

(1)     all of the amounts set forth in clauses (A),
(B) and (C) shall increase by three quarters of one percent (.75) so long as an
Early Amortization Event is continuing except that no such increase will occur
if the only Early Amortization Event then in effect are the types set forth in
clauses (a), (h) or (i) of the definition of such term; and

(2)     for purposes of measuring the ratio of Funded
Debt to Tangible Net Worth described in clause (B) above, the effects of any
single sale, or series of related sales of assets, in excess of Fifty Million
Dollars ($50,000,000) shall be excluded from such calculation.

Class A Asset Base . As of the date of determination, an amount equal to
the sum of (1) the product of (i) seventy-five percent (75%) and (ii) the sum of
(A) the then Aggregate Net Book Value and (B) the then Aggregate Finance Lease
Value, plus (2) 100% of all cash and Eligible Investments then on deposit in the
Restricted Cash Account.   

Class A Asset Base Deficiency . As of any Payment Date, the excess (if
any) of (i) Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balance (calculated after giving
effect to all Credit Loans and principal payments actually paid on such Payment
Date), over (ii) the Class A Asset Base. A Class A Asset Base Deficiency will be
deemed to exist as of any Payment Date on which the foregoing amount exceeds
zero.   

Class A Default Level Advance Rate . One of the following amounts: (i)
during the Revolving Credit Period, eighty-five percent (85%), and (ii) for each
Payment Date occurring on or after the Conversion Date, an amount equal to the
Post Revolving Period Class A Targeted Advance Rate for such Payment Date.

Class A Default Level Asset Base Deficiency . As of any date of
determination the excess (if any) of (i) the Aggregate Class A Note Principal
Balance, over (ii) an amount equal to the sum of (1) the product of (i) Class A
Default Level Advance Rate and (ii) the sum of (A) the then Aggregate Net Book
Value and (B) the then Aggregate Finance Lease Value, plus (2) 100% of all cash
and Eligible Investments then on deposit in the Restricted Cash Account. A Class
A Default Level Asset Base Deficiency will be deemed to exist as of any Payment
Date on which the foregoing amount exceeds zero.   

Class A Lender . Any Lender designated as such on Schedule 4 hereto.

Class A Note . A note, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto,
executed by the Borrower to evidence a Credit Loan made by a Class A Lender
hereunder.   

Class A Note Interest Payment . For each Payment Date and each Class A
Note, an amount equal to the product of (i) the unpaid principal balance of such
Class A Note on the first day of the Interest Period ending on the day prior to
such Payment Date, (ii) an interest rate per annum equal to the sum of (x) the
Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period and (y) the Class A Applicable Margin
for such Interest Period, and (iii) a fraction, the numerator of which is equal
to the actual number of days in such Interest Period and the denominator of
which is equal to 360.   

Class A Scheduled Principal Payment . For any Payment Date occurring on or
after the Conversion Date, an amount equal to the product of (i) the Aggregate
Class A Note Principal Balance on the Conversion Date and (ii) .0151515, as such
product shall be adjusted pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.7(a) hereof.

Class B Applicable Margin . With respect to each Class B Note for each
Interest Period, one of the following amounts:   

(A)     three and one half percent (3.5%) per annum for
each Interest Period commencing on the Closing Date and ending on the Payment
Date occurring in December 2006; or   

(B)     five percent (5%) per annum for each Interest
Period not otherwise addressed in clause (A) above.   

Class B Asset Base . As of the date of determination, an amount equal to
the lesser of:   

(6) 
 
an amount equal to the excess of (1) the sum of (x) the product of (i) ninety
percent (90%) and (ii) the sum of (A) the then Aggregate Net Book Value and (B)
the then Aggregate Finance Lease Value, plus (y) 100% of all cash and Eligible
Investments then on deposit in the Restricted Cash Account, over (2) the then
Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balance.

Class B Asset Base Deficiency . As of any Payment Date, the excess (if
any) of (i) Aggregate Class B Note Principal Balance (calculated after giving
effect to all Credit Loans and principal payments actually paid on such Payment
Date), over (ii) the Class B Asset Base. A Class B Asset Base Deficiency will be
deemed to exist as of any Payment Date on which the foregoing amount exceeds
zero.   

Class B Note . A note, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto,
executed by the Borrower to evidence a Credit Loan made by a Class B Lender
hereunder.   

Class B Conversion Date . The earliest to occur of (i) June 20, 2006 (as
such date may be extended from time to time in accordance with the terms
hereof), (ii) the date on which either an Early Amortization Event or an Event
of Default initially occurs and (iii) the date on which a Refinancing Event
occurs.   

Class B Lender . Any Lender designated as such on Schedule 4 hereto.

Class B Note Interest Payment . For each Payment Date and each Class B
Note, an amount equal to the product of (i) the unpaid principal balance of such
Class B Note on the first day of the Interest Period ending on the day prior to
such Payment Date, (ii) an interest rate per annum equal to the sum of (x) the
Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period and (y) the Class B Applicable Margin
for such Interest Period, and (iii) a fraction, the numerator of which is equal
to the actual number of days in such Interest Period and the denominator of
which is equal to 360.   

Class B Scheduled Principal Payment . For each Payment Date one of the
following:   

(1) 
 
for Payment Dates occurring prior to the Class B Conversion Date, the Class B
Asset Base Deficiency, if any; and

(2) 
 
for each Payment Date occurring on or after the Class B Conversion Date, an
amount equal to the product of (i) either (A) one hundred percent (100%) if the
Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balance has been reduced to zero on such
Payment Date or any prior Payment Date, or (B) sixty-five percent (65%) on any
Payment Date not covered by clause (A), and (ii) that portion of the
Distributable Cash Flow remaining after the payment on such Payment Date of the
amounts set forth in clauses (i) through (x) inclusive in part I of Section
2.18(b) hereof.

Closing Date . December 21, 2005.   

Code . The United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the rules and
regulations promulgated hereunder, in each case, as amended from time to time.

Collateral . This term shall have the meaning set forth in the Security
Agreement.   

Collection Period . With respect to any Payment Date or Transfer Date, as
applicable, the period from the first day of the calendar month immediately
preceding the month in which such Payment Date or Transfer Date, as applicable,
occurs through the last day of such immediately preceding calendar month.

Commitment(s) . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the
agreement of a Lender to make Credit Loans to the Borrower pursuant to Section
2.1.   

Commitment Amount(s) . The maximum amount of each Lender s Commitment
set forth opposite such Lender s name from time to time in  Schedule
4 , as the same may be amended and/or modified from time to time in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement.   

Commitment Fee . This term shall have the meaning set forth in Section
2.6(b).   

Commitment Percentage(s) . The percentage set forth opposite each Lender's name
from time to time in  Schedule 4 .   

Competitor . Any Person engaged, or having an Affiliate engaged, as an
active trade or business, in the container leasing industry;  provided,
however , that in no event shall any insurance company, bank, bank holding
company, finance company (including BTM Capital Corporation), savings
institution or trust company, fraternal benefit society, pension, retirement or
profit sharing trust or fund, or any collateralized bond obligation fund or
similar fund (or any trustee of any such fund) or any holder of any obligations
of any such fund (solely as a result of being such a holder) be deemed to be a
Competitor.   

Compliance Certificate . As defined in  Section 6.4(d) .   

Concentration Limits . As of any date of determination, all of the
following:   

(1) 
 
The sum of the Net Book Values of all Specialized Containers shall not exceed
twenty percent (20%) of the Aggregate Net Book Value;

(2) 
 
The sum of the Net Book Values of all 20', 40  and 40 foot high cube reefer
containers shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the Aggregate Net Book
Value;

(3) 
 
The sum of the Net Book Values of all Containers then subject to a Lease under
which rentals are payable less frequently than monthly shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the Aggregate Net Book Value;

(4) 
 
The sum of the Net Book Values of all Containers then subject to a Lease for
which rentals are payable in a currency other than U.S. Dollars and for which a
currency hedging agreement is not in effect shall not exceed five percent (5%)
of the Aggregate Net Book Value;

(5) 
 
The sum of the Net Book Values of all Containers then subject to a Lease under
which the Lessee is not an intermodal transportation company shall not exceed
five percent (5%) of the Aggregate Net Book Value;

(6) 
 
The sum of the Net Book Values of all Containers then subject to a Lease with
any single Lessee (including Affiliates of such Lessee of which the Borrower or
the Servicer has actual knowledge) plus the sum of the Finance Lease Values with
such Lessee (including Affiliates of such Lessee of which the Borrower or the
Servicer has actual knowledge) shall not represent more than eighteen percent
(18%) of an amount equal to the sum of the Aggregate Net Book Value and
Aggregate Finance Lease Value; provided, however, if a merger of two or more
Lessees results in a breach of this clause, then this Concentration Limit shall
be complied with so long as no additional Containers are leased to such Lessees
after the date of the merger until such time as such Lessees are then again in
compliance with this clause; provided, further, that, solely with respect to
Compa ia Sud Americana de Vapores S.A., such percentage shall be
twenty-two (22%) for the period commencing on the Closing Date to and including
the Payment Date occurring in June 2006 and eighteen percent (18%) for all dates
thereafter;

(7) 
 
The sum of the Net Book Values of all Containers then on lease to any fifteen
(15) Lessees shall not exceed sixty seven percent (67%) for the period from the
Closing Date to and including the Payment Date occurring in June 2006 and
sixty-five percent (65%) thereafter, of an amount equal to the sum of the then
Aggregate Net Book Value and the then Aggregate Finance Lease Value; provided,
however, if a merger of two or more Lessees results in a breach of this clause,
then this Concentration Limit shall be complied with so long as no additional
Containers are leased to such Lessees after the date of the merger until such
time as such Lessees are then again in compliance with this clause;

(8) 
 
The sum of the Net Book Values of all Containers for which CAI is the
sub-servicer, or another acceptable third-party servicer, shall not exceed
thirty-five percent (35%) of an amount equal to the sum of the then Aggregate
Net Book Value and the then Aggregate Finance Lease Value;

(9) 
 
The Aggregate Finance Lease Value shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
Class A Asset Base;

(10) 
 
The sum of Contract Payments discounted pursuant to the definition of Finance
Lease Value of all Containers with respect to which (a) the Lessee has provided
the Servicer with notice of an Event of Loss with respect to such Container, (b)
the related Lease allows the Lessee to make Contract Payments on its regularly
scheduled basis despite the occurrence of an Event of Loss, and (c) the Lessee
exercises such right to continue to make Contract Payments despite such Event of
Loss shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the Class A Asset Base.

The Concentration Limits set forth in any sublimit set forth in
clauses (1) through (10) above shall be determined without duplication of excess
amounts in another sub-limit. Any Containers which fall outside any of clauses
(1) through (8) of the above Concentration Limits shall not be classified as
Eligible Containers, and any Finance Leases which fall outside any of clause (9)
through (10) of the above Concentration Limits shall not be classified as
Eligible Leases.   

Conduit Lender . This term shall have the meaning set forth in Section 25
hereof.   

Consolidated . As applied to any term used in this Agreement, the relevant
figures for the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis
determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Contract Payment . With respect to any Finance Lease and any Collection
Period, the minimum monthly or other periodic contractual payment to be made by
the related Lessee for the use of the related Containers in accordance with the
terms of such Finance Lease.   

Container . All of the containers (including Additional Containers and
Substitute Containers) owned or acquired by the Borrower from time to time in
accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents.   

Container Transfer Certificate . This term shall have the meaning set
forth in the Contribution and Sale Agreement.   

Contribution and Sale Agreement . The Contribution and Sale Agreement,
dated as of December 21, 2005 and substantially in the form of  Exhibit L 
hereto, pursuant to which the Seller conveyed to the Borrower the Containers,
the Leases and the other assets identified therein.   

Controlled Group . All trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated)
under common control that, together with the Borrower, are treated as a single
employer under Section 414(b) or 414(c) of the Code or Section 4001 of ERISA.

Conversion Date . The earliest to occur of (i) October 31, 2007 (as such
date may be extended from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof),
(ii) the date on which either an Early Amortization Event or an Event of Default
initially occurs and (iii) the date on which a Refinancing Event occurs.

Corporation . Any or all of the following, as the context may require,
corporations, limited partnerships, limited liability companies, limited
liability partnerships, joint stock associations and business trusts.

Counterparty Collateral Account . This term shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 6.19(f) as and when such account has been established.

Credit Loan(s) . Each advance of funds made by a Lender to the Borrower in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement.   

Credit Support Agreement . This term is defined in Section 25 hereof.

Credit Support Party . This term is defined in Section 25 hereof.

Current Maturities . As of any date of determination, the sum of all
current maturities of long-term Indebtedness and, without duplication of the
foregoing, Capitalized Lease Obligations, appearing on the consolidated balance
sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP.

Cut-Off Date . With respect to any Transfer Date, the last day of the
immediately preceding Collection Period (for example, if the Transfer Date is to
be the last Business Day of October, then the Cut-Off Date shall be the last day
of September).   

Default(s) . As defined in   Section 8  .   

Default Rate . An interest rate per annum equal to the sum of (i) two
percent (2%) per annum, plus (ii) the rate of interest then in effect on such
Class A Note or Class B Note, as the case may be (inclusive of the Class A
Applicable Margin or the Class B Applicable Margin, as the case may be).

Defaulted Lease . Any lease in which the Agent, for the benefit of the
Lenders, has a security interest and for which (A) a rental or other payment (or
a portion thereof) owing thereunder is more than 120 days delinquent (measured
from its contractual due date), or (B) the related Lessee is in default under
any other provision of such lease not dealt with in clause (A) and any
applicable grace and/or cure period set forth in such lease has expired and the
Servicer has in accordance with its normal procedures declared such lease to be
in default, or (C) the Servicer has otherwise determined that the remaining
amounts owing by the Lessee under such lease are expected to be uncollectible.

Derivatives Obligations . All obligations of any Person in respect of any
rate swap transaction, basis swap, forward rate transaction, commodity swap,
commodity option, equity swap or equity index swap, equity option or equity
index option, bond option, interest rate option, foreign exchange transaction,
cap transaction, floor transaction, collar transaction, currency swap
transaction, cross-currency rate swap transaction, currency option or any other
similar transaction (including any option with respect to any of the foregoing
transactions) or any combination of the foregoing transactions.   

Designated Early Amortization Amount . For any Payment Date on which a
Designated Early Amortization Event is continuing, an amount equal to the
product of (i) a fraction the numerator of which is the sum of the then Net Book
Values of all Eligible Containers for which CAI is the subservicer and the
denominator of which is the then Aggregate Net Book Value, and (ii) the
Distributable Cash Flow remaining after the payments made in clauses (i) through
(vii) of Part (II) of Section 2.18(b) have been paid.   

Designated Early Amortization Events . Those events or conditions set
forth in clauses (h) or (i) of the definition of the term  Early
Amortization Event .   

Determination Date . The third (3 rd ) Business Day prior to each
Payment Date.   

Direct Operating Expenses . All direct expenses and costs, calculated on
an accrual basis in accordance with GAAP, incurred in connection with the
ownership, use and/or operation of the Containers, including but not limited to:
(i) agency costs and expenses; (ii) depot fees, handling, and storage costs and
expenses; (iii) survey, maintenance and repair expenses (including the actual or
estimated cost of repairs to be made pursuant to a damage protection plan); (iv)
repositioning expense; (v) the cost of inspecting, marking and remarking such
Containers; (vi) third-party fees for bankruptcy recovery; (vii) legal fees
incurred in connection with enforcing rights under the leases of such Containers
or repossessing such Containers; (viii) insurance expense; (ix) taxes, levies,
duties, charges, assessments, fees, penalties, deductions or withholdings
assessed, charged or imposed upon or against such Containers, including but
limited to ad valorem, gross receipts and/or other property taxes imposed
against such Containers or against the revenues generated by such Containers;
(x) expenses, liabilities, claims and costs (including without limitation
reasonable attorneys  fees) incurred by the Servicer or made against the
Servicer by any third party arising directly or indirectly (whether wholly or in
part) out of the state, condition, operation, use, storage, possession, repair,
maintenance or transportation of such Containers; (xi) expenses and costs
(including legal fees) of pursuing claims against manufacturers or sellers of
such Containers; and (xii) non-recoverable sales and value-added taxes on such
expenses and costs; provided, however, that in no event shall any Borrower
Expense be considered a Direct Operating Expense.   

Discount Rate . With respect to any Finance Lease an interest rate per
annum equal to:   

(1) 
 
for the nine month period following the Closing Date, nine percent (9%) per
annum; and

(2) 
 
for any date not covered by clause (1), the greater of (a) nine percent (9%) and
(b) the sum of (I) the fixed rate payable under the Interest Rate Hedge
Agreement related to such Finance Lease and (II) the weighted average (based on
the unpaid principal balances) of the Class A Applicable Margin and the Class B
Applicable Margin.

Disposition Fee . For any Payment Date, a fee payable to the Servicer,
solely with respect to Containers sold by the Servicer to a third party for a
net cash Sales Proceeds that exceeds an amount equal to seventy-five percent
(75%) of the then Net Book Values of the related Containers, in an amount equal
to five percent (5%) of Sales Proceeds (exclusive of repair allowances) actually
received by, or on behalf of, the Borrower during the related Collection Period.
The Servicer will not receive a Disposition Fee with respect to a Container for
which an Event of Loss has occurred.   

Distributable Cash Flow . This term shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 2.18(b) hereof.   

Distributions . For any period of measurement with respect to any
Corporation, any of the following: (a) the declaration or payment of any
dividend or distribution on or in respect of shares of any class of capital
stock or other ownership interests of such Corporation, except dividends payable
solely in shares of such Corporation s common stock or other ownership
interests having rights similar to common stock; and (b) any other loan,
dividend or distribution for any purpose from such Corporation (however
characterized) to or for the benefit of any or all of its shareholders, whether
paid on or in respect of shares of any class of the capital stock or other
ownership interests of such Corporation or otherwise.   

Dollars  and  $ . Dollars or such coin or currency of the United
States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal funds for the payment
of public and private debts in the United States of America.   

Early Amortization Event . The occurrence or existence of any of the
following events or conditions:   

(a) 
 
The Weighted Average Age of all Eligible Containers and Containers subject to
Finance Leases is eight (8) years or more;

(b) 
 
The EBIT Ratio of the Borrower, determined as of the end of the most recent
fiscal quarter, is less than 1.1 to 1;

(c) 
 
A Servicer Default (other than a CAI Servicer Default) occurs;

(d) 
 
A Class A Asset Base Deficiency exists and continues unremedied for ten (10)
Business Days;

(e) 
 
The Borrower fails to pay on any Payment Date the full amount of the Class A
Scheduled Principal Payment due on such Payment Date and, if such failure
results solely from an administrative failure (by a Person other than the
Borrower or any of its Affiliates) in wiring such payment, such failure
continues unremedied for two (2) Business Days;

(f) 
 
The occurrence of an Event of Default;

(g) 
 
Failure of the Servicer to achieve (such determination to be made in the
reasonable judgment of the Agent) the milestones described below by March 31,
2006:

(1) 
 
The contract administration system will be installed and fully operational. The
system will contain contract profile data including account number, customer
address, contract rates, fees, equipment type, lease start and end dates.

(2) 
 
The account receivable system will be installed and fully operational. The
accounts receivable system will take data from the billing system and produce
various aging reports. It will allow for the posting of cash and produce various
cash receipts reports.

(h) 
 
For so long as CAI is the subservicer of any of the Containers, the failure to
complete either of the following by March 31, 2006: (i) a CAI Agreement
Restructuring, or (ii) if clause (i) is not achieved, terminating CAI as a
subservicer of the Containers;

(i) 
 
For so long as CAI is the subservicer of any of the Containers, the occurrence
of a CAI Servicer Default unless the Agent (acting at the direction of the
Majority Lenders) shall have elected not to terminate CAI as a subservicer as
the result of such occurrence;

(j) 
 
Two or more of Martin Tuchman, James Walsh, Art Burns and Richard W. Gross
(together with any replacement or substitute key officer approved in writing by
the Agent, each, a  Key Officer ) resign, are removed or no longer
serve in their respective offices as Key Officers of the Parent Guarantor, and a
replacement reasonably satisfactory to the Agent has not assumed their
responsibilities within one hundred twenty days (120); and

(k) 
 
A Class B Asset Base Deficiency exists and continues unremedied for ten (10)
Business Days.

An Early Amortization Event of the type described in clauses (h)
and (i) above shall be cured upon (x) termination of CAI as a subservicer with
respect to all of the Containers, and (y) the effective transfer of the
servicing of such Containers to a replacement servicer reasonably acceptable to
the Agent and the Majority Lenders. All other Early Amortization Events shall
continue in effect until waived in accordance with Section 20.   

Earnings Available for Fixed Charges.  For any rolling four quarter
period, the sum of Fixed Charges for such period plus Net Income for such period
(adjusted to account for the impact of any non-cash fair value adjustment for
the warrants issued by the Parent Guarantor in 2004) before income taxes plus
interest expenses for such period relating to (A) the Parent Guarantor s
9-7/8% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2027 and the
related 9-7/8% Capital Securities of Interpool Capital on the consolidated
balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, (B) the
9.25% Convertible Redeemable Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2022 on the
consolidated balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries and (C) any future subordinated debt of Parent Guarantor and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries.   

EBIT . For any fiscal period, Net Income of the Borrower before Interest
Expense and taxes, including gains and losses from the sale of assets and
foreign exchange transactions, determined in accordance with GAAP; provided,
however, that (i) all non-cash gains or losses realized by the Borrower with
respect to Interest Rate Hedge Agreements, and (ii) any incremental depreciation
expense related to any gain realized on the sale of the assets to the Borrower
from any Affiliate of the Parent Guarantor, will, in each case, be excluded from
the calculation of EBIT.   

EBIT Ratio . With respect to the Borrower as of the last day of each
fiscal quarter, the ratio of (i) EBIT of the Borrower for the four fiscal
quarters then ended, to (ii)  Interest Expense of the Borrower for the four
fiscal quarters then ended. For each of the first four fiscal quarters following
the Closing Date, the EBIT Ratio of the Borrower will be calculated as follows:

(1) 
 
for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005, the EBIT and Interest Expense of
Interpool Container Funding, SRL for the four most recently completed fiscal
quarters ending on December 31, 2005 will be utilized;

(2) 
 
for the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2006, the EBIT and Interest Expense of
the Borrower for the fiscal quarter then ended will be utilized in addition to
the EBIT and Interest Expense of Interpool Container Funding, SRL for the three
most recently completed fiscal quarters ending on December 31, 2005;

(3) 
 
for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 1006, the EBIT and Interest Expense of the
Borrower for each of the two most recently completed fiscal quarters will be
utilized in addition to the EBIT and Interest Expense of Interpool Container
Funding, SRL for each of the two most recently completed quarters ending on
December 31, 2005; and

(4) 
 
for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006, the EBIT and Interest Expense
of the Borrower for each of the three most recently completed fiscal quarters
will be utilized in addition to the EBIT and Interest Expense of Interpool
Container Funding, SRL for the fiscal quarter ended on December 31, 2005.

Eligible Container . As of any date of determination any Container which,
when considered with all other Eligible Containers owned by the Borrower, shall
comply with all of the following requirements;  provided,  however, that
the provisions of clause (10) shall, except to the extent set forth in such
clause, be applied to a Container only on the Transfer Date on which the
Borrower acquired such Container:   

(1) 
 
The Container substantially conforms to the standard specifications used by the
Servicer for containers purchased for its own account, for that category of
container and applicable industry standards including, without limitation, The
Customs Convention on Containers, The International Convention for Safe
Containers and the International Organization for Standardization;

(2) 
 
The Container shall comply with all of the Concentration Limits other than
clauses (9) and (10) of the definition thereof;

(3) 
 
To Servicer s or Borrower s knowledge, such Container is not then the
subject of an Event of Loss (or an event which, with notice and/or lapse of
time, would constitute an Event of Loss);

(4) 
 
The Seller shall have had good and marketable title to such Container as of the
related Transfer Date and, at all times thereafter, the Borrower holds legal,
beneficial and marketable title thereto;

(5) 
 
Such Container is not subject to any Liens except Permitted Liens;

(6) 
 
The conveyance of such Container and the Related Assets from the Seller to the
Borrower does not violate any agreement to which the Seller is a party or by
which it and/or its properties are bound;

(7) 
 
No consent or approval from the Lessee or other Person is required to transfer
such Container or the Related Assets from the Seller to the Borrower except for
any such consents or approvals that have been obtained;

(8)  
 
The Seller shall have taken all necessary actions to transfer title to such
Container and the Related Assets from the Seller to the Borrower;

(9)  
 
Such Container was not subject to any adverse selection procedures by the Seller
or the Servicer in selecting such containers to be transferred to the Borrower;

(10)  
 
Solely on the Transfer Date of such Container (except to the extent set forth in
the proviso set forth below), at least (A) 91% (solely with respect to the
Transfer Date occurring on the Closing Date), and (B) 95% on each Transfer Date
thereafter (such percentages to be measured in each case on a Net Book Value
basis), of all Containers included in the tranche of Containers conveyed on such
Transfer Date will on such Transfer Date be subject to either a Term Lease or a
Finance Lease; provided, however, that with respect to the Containers included
in the Transfer Date occurring on the Closing Date, this criteria will be
applied again as of June 30, 2006 to determine if at least 95% of all Containers
included in the tranche of containers originally transferred on the Closing Date
are subject to either a Term Lease or a Finance Lease as of June 30, 2006, and,
if such criteria is not satisfied, containers originally included in such
tranche and having an aggregate Net Book Value equal to the Excess Off-Lease
Value shall no longer be classified as Eligible Containers;

(11)  
 
Such Container is not then on lease to a Prohibited Person or used in a
Prohibited Jurisdiction;

(12)  
 
Such Container has not been excluded from the calculation of the Class A Asset
Base, the Class B Asset Base and the Maximum Asset Base pursuant to Section 6.27
hereof and is not then subject to a Defaulted Lease or a Finance Lease;

(13)  
 
The Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, has a first priority, perfected
security interest in such Container;

(14)  
 
The purchase price paid by the Seller to the manufacturer thereof did not exceed
the then fair market value of such Container; and

(15)  
 
If such Container is then subject to the terms of a Lease Agreement, the terms
of such Lease Agreement comply with all of the following:

(i)  
 
 Valid Contracts . Such Lease is a legal, valid and binding full recourse payment
obligation of the related Lessee enforceable in accordance with its terms
(except as may be limited by applicable insolvency, bankruptcy, moratorium,
reorganization, or other similar laws affecting enforceability of
creditors  rights generally and the availability of equitable remedies) and
is in full force and effect and such Lease has not been satisfied, subordinated
or rescinded;

(ii)  
 
 Absolute Obligations . The related Lessee s obligations under such
Lease are  hell or high water  obligations that are, among other
characteristics, non-cancellable, unconditional and not subject to any right of
set-off, rescission, counterclaim, off-set, reduction or recoupment during the
non-cancellable term of such Lease; and

(iii)  
 
 Taxes; Maintenance; Insurance . Such Lease contains provisions requiring
the related Lessee to pay all sales, use, excise, rental, property or similar
taxes imposed on or with respect to the Container and to assume all risk of loss
or malfunction of the related Container and such Lease requires the related
Lessee, at its own expense, to maintain the Container in good and workable order
and to obtain and maintain liability insurance and physical damage insurance on
the Container subject thereto, except where the Lessee is permitted to self
insure in accordance with the Servicing Agreement.

Eligible Interest Rate Hedge Provider . Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. or
such other bank or other financial institution (or any party providing credit
support on such Person s behalf) that at the time of execution and delivery
of the related Interest Rate Hedge Agreement, has (x) a long-term senior
unsecured debt rating of at least (1)  AA-  from S P and
 Aa3  from Moody s or (2)  AA-  from S P and
 A1  from Moody s or (3)  A+  from S P and
 Aa3  from Moody s and (y) a short-term unsecured debt rating of
 A1  from S P and  P1  from Moody s or is otherwise
approved by the Agent.   

Eligible Investments .  One or more of the following:   

(i) direct obligations of, and obligations fully guaranteed as to the timely
payment of principal and interest by, the United States or obligations of any
agency or instrumentality thereof when such obligations are backed by the full
faith and credit of the United States;

(ii) certificates of deposit and bankers  acceptances (which shall each
have an original maturity of not more than three hundred sixty-five (365) days)
of any United States depository institution or trust company incorporated under
the laws of the United States or any State and subject to supervision and
examination by federal and/or State authorities, provided that the long-term
unsecured senior debt obligations of such depository institution or trust
company at the date of acquisition thereof have been rated at least
 A-1  by S P and  P-1  by Moody s or which is
otherwise acceptable to the Agent;

(iii) commercial paper (having original maturities of not more than two hundred
seventy (270) days) of any corporation incorporated under the laws of the United
States or any State thereof which on the date of acquisition has been rated at
least  A-1  by S P and  P-1  by Moody s or which is
otherwise acceptable to the Agent;

(iv) any money market fund that invests solely in Eligible Investments;

(v) eurodollar deposits (which shall each have an original maturity of not more
than three hundred sixty-five (365) days) of any depository institution or trust
company, provided that the long-term unsecured senior debt obligations of such
depository institution or trust company at the date of acquisition thereof have
been rated at least  A-1  by S P and  P-1  by
Moody s or which is otherwise acceptable to the Agent; and

(vi) other obligations or securities that are acceptable to the Agent.

Eligible Leases . Any Finance Lease that as of any date of determination
meets all of the following characteristics:   

(i)  
 
 Defaulted Lease . Such Finance Lease is not a Defaulted Lease;

(ii)  
 
 Delinquencies . No rental payment owing pursuant to the terms of such
Finance Lease is more than sixty (60) days delinquent (measured from its
contractual due date) as of such date of determination;

(iii)  
 
 Valid Contracts . Such Finance Lease is a legal, valid and binding full
recourse payment obligation of the related Lessee enforceable in accordance with
its terms (except as may be limited by applicable insolvency, bankruptcy,
moratorium, reorganization, or other similar laws affecting enforceability of
creditors  rights generally and the availability of equitable remedies) and
is in full force and effect and such Finance Lease has not been satisfied,
subordinated or rescinded;

(iv)  
 
 Absolute Obligations . The related Lessee s obligations under such
Finance Lease are  hell or high water  obligations that are, among
other characteristics, non-cancellable, unconditional and not subject to any
right of set-off, rescission, counterclaim, off-set, reduction or recoupment
during the non-cancellable term of such Finance Lease;

(v)  
 
 Taxes; Maintenance; Insurance . Such Finance Lease contains provisions
requiring the related Lessee to pay all sales, use, excise, rental, property or
similar taxes imposed on or with respect to the Container and to assume all risk
of loss or malfunction of the related Container and such Lease requires the
related Lessee, at its own expense, to maintain the Container in good and
workable order and to obtain and maintain liability insurance and physical
damage insurance on the Container subject thereto;

(vi)  
 
 No Violation . Neither (i) the transfer, assignment and contribution by
the Seller to the Borrower of its right, title and interest in and to such
Finance Lease and the related Container nor (ii) the pledge of Borrower s
right, title and interest in and to such Finance Lease and the related
Container, will violate the terms or provisions of such Finance Lease or any
other agreement to which the Seller is a party or by which it is bound;

(vii)  
 
 No Amendment . Such Finance Lease has not been amended prior to the
Transfer Date or Substitution Date, as appropriate, such that the amount of any
Contract Payment owing pursuant to the terms of such Finance Lease has been
decreased, or any other obligations of the Lessee under such Finance Lease have
been diminished, due to the related Lessee s financial inability to make
such payments;

(viii)  
 
 Insolvency . The related Lessee is not subject to bankruptcy or other
insolvency proceedings;

(ix)  
 
 U.S. Dollars . All payments owing under such Finance Lease are required to
be made in Dollars, or, if not in Dollars, then in compliance with Concentration
Limit clause (4);

(x)  
 
 Acceleration . Such Finance Lease provides for the acceleration of all
rental payments thereunder upon default by the Lessee;

(xi)  
 
 Event of Loss . Such Finance Lease requires that in the event of an Event
of Loss, the related Lessee must take one of the following actions: (a) restore
or repair the affected Container to good repair, condition and working order;
(b) replace the Container with like equipment of the same or later model in good
repair, condition and working order; (c) make a lump sum payment in an amount
that is not less than the then Finance Lease Value of the Casualty Item; or (d)
continue to make Contract Payments on its regularly scheduled basis despite the
occurrence of an Event of Loss, subject in the case of clause (d) to
Concentration Limit clause (10);

(xii)  
 
 Post Closing Leases . Such Lease has not been excluded from the
calculation of the Class A Asset Base, the Class B Asset Base and the Maximum
Asset Base pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.27 hereof;

(xiii)  
 
 Partial Pledges . Except as disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the
Agent, no portion of such Finance Lease or the Container subject to such Finance
Lease has been pledged to a third party;

(xiv)  
 
 Good Title and First Lien . The Borrower shall have good and marketable
title to such Finance Lease and the Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, shall
have a first priority, perfected security interest in the Borrower s rights
in such Finance Lease;

(xv)  
 
 Concentration Limits . Such Finance Lease shall comply with clauses (6),
(9) and (10) of the definition of Concentration Limits; and

(xvi)  
 
 Purchase Option . If such Finance Lease contains an option for the related
Lessee to purchase the Containers subject to such Finance Lease, the exercise
price of such option is for an amount that is equal to or greater than the
Finance Lease Value of such Lease.

Environmental Laws . Any and all United States federal, state, local and
foreign laws, statutes, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits,
concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or other governmental
restrictions relating to fines, orders, injunctions, penalties, damages,
contribution, cost recovery compensation, losses or injuries resulting from the
Release or threatened Release of Hazardous Materials or to the generation,
storage, transportation, or disposal of Hazardous Materials, in any manner
applicable to the Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their
respective properties, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C.  9601  et   seq .),
the Hazardous Material Transportation Act (49 U.S.C.  1801  et 
 seq .), the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C.  6901  et 
 seq .), the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.  1251
 et   seq .), the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C.  7401
 et   seq . , the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C.  2601  et .
 seq . , the Occupational Safety and Health Act (29 U.S.C.  651  et .
 seq . and the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (42 U.S.C.  
11001  et .  seq .), each as amended or supplemented, and any analogous future
or present local, state and federal or foreign statutes and rules and regulations
promulgated pursuant thereto, each as in effect on the date of determination.   

Equity Interests . With respect to any Person, any and all shares,
partnership, membership, trust and other interests, participations or other
equivalents (however designated) of equity ownership interests of such Person.

ERISA . The United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
and the rules and regulations thereunder, collectively, as the same may be
amended from time to time.   

Eurodollar Rate . With respect to any Interest Period, an interest rate
per annum determined pursuant to the following formula:   

Eurodollar Rate = 
 
 Interbank Offered Rate  
1-Eurodollar Reserve Percentage

The Eurodollar Rate shall be adjusted automatically as of the
effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.   

Eurodollar Rate Basis . Any Credit Loan for which the rate of interest
applicable thereto is being determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate.

Eurodollar Reserve Percentage . For any day, that percentage (expressed as
a decimal) which is in effect from time to time under Regulation D of the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as such regulation may be amended
from time to time or any successor regulation, as the maximum reserve
requirement (including any basic, supplemental, emergency, special, or marginal
reserves) applicable with respect to Eurocurrency liabilities as that term is
defined in Regulation D (or against any other category of liabilities that
includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate of Credit Loans on
Eurodollar Rate Basis is determined), whether or not any Lender has any
Eurocurrency liabilities subject to such reserve requirement at that time.
Credit Loans on a Eurodollar Rate Basis shall be deemed to constitute
Eurocurrency liabilities and as such shall be deemed subject to reserve
requirements without benefits of credits for proration, exceptions or offsets
that may be available from time to time to any Lender.   

Event of Default . As defined in   Section 8  .   

Event of Loss . With respect to any Container as of any date of
determination, any of the following events or conditions:   

(i) total loss or destruction thereof;

(ii) theft or disappearance thereof without recovery within sixty (60) days
after such theft or disappearance becomes known to the Borrower;

(iii) damage rendering such Container unfit for normal use and, in the judgment
of the Borrower, beyond repair at reasonable cost;

(iv) any condemnation, seizure, forced sale or other taking of title to or use
of any such Container;

(v) if such Container is then subject to the terms of a Lease, such item of
Container shall have been deemed under the terms of such Lease to have suffered
an Event of Loss (or an equivalent term); or

(vi) it is then located in a Prohibited Jurisdiction.

Excess Off-Lease Value . An amount, determined on the Determination Date
for the Payment Date occurring in July 2006, equal to the excess, if any, of:

(A)  
 
an amount equal to the product of (i) 95% and (ii) the sum of the Net Book
Values (measured as of June 30, 2006) of all containers transferred to the
Borrower on the Closing Date; over

(B)  
 
an amount equal to the sum of the Net Book Values (measured as of June 30, 2006)
of all containers transferred to the Borrower on the Closing Date that are
subject to either a Finance Lease or a Term Lease as of June 30, 2006.

Excluded Amounts . All of the following: (i) any payments received from a
Lessee in connection with any late charges, taxes, fees or other charges imposed
by any Governmental Authority, (ii) any indemnity payments made by a lessee or
payments made for the benefit of any Person pursuant to a liability insurance
policy or (iii) any payments collected from a Lessee for the benefit of the
originator or vendor which relate to maintenance payments pursuant to the
related Lease or maintenance agreement, as applicable.   

Facility Fee Letter . The Facility Fee Letter, dated as of December 21,
2005, among the Agent, the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor as such agreement
may be amended, modified or supplemented.   

Fair Market Value . With respect to a Container, an amount equal to the
value that would be obtained in an arm s length transaction between an
informed and willing purchaser under no compulsion to buy and an informed and
willing seller under no compulsion to sell.   

Final Maturity Date . One of the following: (i) with respect to the Class
A Notes, the Payment Date occurring in the sixty-sixth (66 th ) month
after the Conversion Date, and (ii) with respect to the Class B Notes, the
Payment Date occurring in December 2015.   

Finance Lease . Any Lease of a Container which provides the Lessee with
the right or option to purchase such Container at the expiration of the term of
the Lease for a nominal price or which otherwise satisfies the criteria for
classification as a  direct financing lease  as determined in
accordance with GAAP, on the books and records of the Borrower.   

Finance Lease Value.  With respect to each Finance Lease as of any date of
determination, an amount in Dollars equal to the present value of the remaining
Contract Payments becoming due under such Finance Lease after such date of
determination, discounted monthly at one-twelfth of the then applicable Discount
Rate;  provided ,  however , that (i) the Finance Lease Value of any
Defaulted Lease or a Finance Lease that is repurchased or required to be
repurchased by the Seller or the Servicer shall be equal to zero, and (ii) with
respect to any Contract Payment that remains unpaid for more than 60 days after
its contractual due date, such Contract Payment shall be deemed to be zero for
purposes of calculating the Finance Lease Value of such Finance Lease.

Fixed Charges . For any rolling four quarter period, the sum of (i)
interest expense (as determined in accordance with GAAP); excluding interest
expense for such period with respect to (A) the Parent Guarantor s 9-7/8%
Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2027 and the related
9-7/8% Capital Securities of Interpool Capital on the consolidated balance sheet
of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, and (B) the amount
representing the 9.25% Convertible Redeemable Junior Subordinated Debentures due
2022 on the consolidated balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries and (C) any future subordinated debt of Parent
Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, plus (ii) obligations of Parent
Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as a lessee for lease rentals on
long term leases (as determined in accordance with GAAP) for such period.

Funding Date . Each date which a Credit Loan is made to Borrower in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement.   

Funded Debt . All indebtedness for borrowed money with recourse to Parent
Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, or any of them, including purchase
money mortgages, capitalized leases, conditional sales contracts and similar
title retention debt instruments, (excluding any current maturities portion of
such indebtedness that becomes due within 12 months from the date of calculation
thereof). The calculation of Funded Debt shall include all Funded Debt of Parent
Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries which appears in financial
statements, plus any liabilities which would otherwise be classified as Funded
Debt of any other Person (if such Person was a Consolidated Subsidiary), which
has been guaranteed by Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries or any
of them, either jointly or severally. Funded Debt shall exclude (A) the amount
representing the Parent Guarantor s 9-7/8% Junior Subordinated Deferrable
Interest Debentures due 2027 and the related 9-7/8% Capital Securities of
Interpool Capital on the consolidated balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and
its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter for
which financial statements are available, (B) the amount representing the 9.25%
Convertible Redeemable Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2022 on the
consolidated balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial
statements are available and (C) any future subordinated debt of Parent
Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries.   

Funding Losses . As defined in   Section 2.16  .   

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles  or  GAAP . Accounting
principles which are (i) consistent with the principles promulgated or adopted
from time to time by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and its
predecessors, (ii) generally accepted in the United States of America, and (iii)
such that a certified public accountant would, insofar as the use of accounting
principles is pertinent, be in a position to deliver an unqualified opinion as
to financial statements in which such principles have been properly applied.

Governmental Authority . Any government or political subdivision or any
agency, authority, bureau, central bank, commission, department or
instrumentality of either, or any court, tribunal, grand jury or arbitrator, in
each case whether foreign or domestic.   

Gross Lease Revenues . As defined in the Servicing Agreement.   

Guarantees . By any Person means all obligations (other than endorsements
in the ordinary course of business of negotiable instruments for deposit or
collection) of such Person guaranteeing, or in effect guaranteeing, any
Indebtedness, dividend or other obligation of any other Person (the  primary
obligor ) in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, including all
obligations incurred through an agreement, contingent or otherwise, by such
Person: (a) to purchase such Indebtedness or obligation or any property or
assets constituting security therefor, (b) to advance or supply funds (i) for
the purchase or payment of such Indebtedness or obligation, or (ii) to maintain
working capital or any other balance sheet condition or otherwise to advance or
to make available funds for the purchase or payment of such Indebtedness or
obligation, (c) to lease property or to purchase securities or other property or
services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or
obligation of the ability of the primary obligor to make payment of the
Indebtedness or obligation, or (d) otherwise to assure the owner of the
Indebtedness or obligation of the primary obligor against loss in respect
thereof. For the purposes of all computations made under this Agreement, a
guaranty in respect of any Indebtedness for borrowed money shall be deemed to be
Indebtedness equal to the principal amount of such Indebtedness for borrowed
money which has been guaranteed, and a Guaranty in respect of any other
obligation or liability or any dividend shall be deemed to be Indebtedness equal
to the maximum aggregate amount of such obligation, liability or dividend.

Guarantor Event of Default.  The occurrence or existence of any of the
events or conditions set forth in Section 8 that occurs because of an action or
inaction of the Parent Guarantor.   

Hazardous Material . Any (a) oil, petroleum or petroleum derived
substance, any drilling fluids, produced waters and other wastes associated with
the exploration, development or production of crude oil, any flammable
substances or explosives, any radioactive materials, any hazardous wastes or
substances, any toxic wastes or substances or any other materials or pollutants
which (i) pose a hazard to any property of the Parent Guarantor or any of its
Subsidiaries or to Persons on or about such property or (ii) cause such property
to be in violation of any Environmental Laws, (b) asbestos in any form which is
or could become friable, urea formaldehyde foam insulation, electrical equipment
which contains any oil or electric fluid containing levels of polychlorinated
biphenyls in excess of fifty parts per million; (c) any chemical, material or
substance defined as or included in the definition of  hazardous
substances,   hazardous wastes,   hazardous materials, 
 extremely hazardous waste,  restricted hazardous waste,  or
 toxic substances  or words of similar import under any applicable
local, state or federal law or under the rules and regulations adopted or
publications promulgated pursuant thereto, including Environmental Laws, and (d)
any other chemical, material or substance, exposure to which is prohibited,
limited or regulated by any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the
Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective
properties.   

Hedging Requirements . As defined in   Section 6.19(a)   hereof.

Indebtedness . For any Person, all obligations, contingent or otherwise,
that in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles should be
classified on such Person s balance sheet as liabilities, or to which
reference should be made by footnotes thereto, including in any event and
whether so classified, all: (a) obligations created, issued or incurred by such
Person for borrowed money (whether by loan, the issuance and sale of debt
securities or the sale of property to another Person subject to an agreement,
contingent or otherwise, to repurchase such property from such Person); (b)
obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase or acquisition price of
property or services, other than trade accounts payable (other than for borrowed
money) arising, and accrued expenses incurred, in the ordinary course of
business so long as such trade accounts payable are payable within 90 days of
the date the respective goods are delivered or the respective services are
rendered; (c) indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on the property of such
Person, whether or not the respective indebtedness so secured has been assumed
by such Person; (d) obligations of such Person in respect of letters of credit
or similar instruments issued or accepted by banks and other financial
institutions for the account of such Person; (e) Capitalized Lease Obligations
of such Person; (f) the net amount of any mark to market exposure under
Derivatives Obligations of such Person; (g) without duplication, obligations of
such Person under Guarantees of Indebtedness of others; and (h) all preferred
stock issued by such Person and required by the terms thereof to be redeemed, or
for which mandatory sinking fund payments are due, by a fixed date (but only to
the extent such fixed date occurs prior to June 30, 2010).   

Indemnified Party . As defined in   Section 6.14(d)  .

Independent Accountant . Any nationally or regionally recognized
accounting firm, that is reasonably acceptable to the Agent and that is
independent with respect to the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries within the
meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the applicable published
rules and regulations thereunder.   

Independent Person . A Person who at the date of appointment possesses the
following qualifications: (a) has prior experience as a shareholder for a
company, the corporate instruments of which require the unanimous consent of all
shareholders thereof before such company could consent to the institution of
bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against it or could file a petition seeking
relief under any applicable law; and (b) is an entity that provides, in the
ordinary course of its business, advisory, management or placement services to
issuers of securitization or structured finance instruments, agreements or
securities;  provided  always that such Person at the date of appointment
as shareholder, or at any time in the preceding five years, or during such
person s tenure shall not be: (i) an employee, director, shareholder,
manager, partner or officer of Parent Guarantor or an Affiliate thereof;
(ii) a customer or supplier of Parent Guarantor or an Affiliate thereof;
(iii) a beneficial owner at the time of such appointment as an independent
shareholder, or at any time thereafter while serving as an independent
shareholder, of more than 2% of the voting securities of Parent Guarantor or an
Affiliate thereof; (iv) affiliated with a significant customer, supplier or
creditor of Parent Guarantor or an Affiliate thereof; (v) a party to any
significant personal service contracts with Parent Guarantor or an affiliate
thereof; or (vi) a member of the immediate family of a person described in (i)
or (ii) above.   

Initial Lease . Each of (i) the lease agreements that are set forth on
 Schedule 4  to the Security Agreement, (ii) the CAI Agreement and
(iii) the Management Agreement.   

Insolvency Law . The Bankruptcy Code, any state insolvency scheme or any
similar Applicable Law in Barbados or in any other applicable jurisdiction.

Interbank Offered Rate . For any Interest Period therefor, the rate per
annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest 1/100 of 1%) appearing on
Telerate Page 3750 (or any successor page) as the London interbank offered rate
for deposits in Dollars at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business
Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to
such Interest Period. If for any reason such rate is not available, the term
 Interbank Offered Rate  means, for any Credit Loan for any Interest
Period therefor, the rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to the nearest one
hundred-thousandth of a percentage point), determined on the basis of the
offered rates for deposits in Dollars for a period of one month which are
offered by four major banks, as selected by the Agent, in the London interbank
market at approximately 11:00 am. London time, on the day that is two (2)
Business Days preceding the first day of such Interest Period. The principal
London office of each of such four major London banks will be requested to
provide a quotation of its Dollar deposit offered rate. If at least two such
quotations are provided, the rate for that date will be the arithmetic mean of
the quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided as requested, the rate
for that date will be determined on the basis of the rates quoted for loans in
Dollars to leading European banks (as selected by the Agent) for a period of one
month offered by major banks in New York City at approximately 11:00 am. New
York City time, on the day that is two Business Days preceding the first day of
such Interest Period. In the event that the Agent is unable to obtain any such
quotation as provided above, it will be deemed that the  Interbank Offered
Rate  for such Credit Loan cannot be determined.   

Intercreditor Agreement . That certain Intercreditor and Lockbox
Administration Agreement dated as of December 14, 2005, among Interpool
Container Funding, SRL, Interpool Containers Limited, Interpool, Inc., U.S. Bank
National Association, as lockbox administrator, DVB Bank N.V., Fortis Capital
Corp. and such other equipment owners and equipment lenders named therein or as
may become a party from time to time, in the form attached as Exhibit N hereto
as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented in accordance with
its terms, including as supplemented by the execution of any joinder agreement.

Intercreditor Joinder Agreements . The joinder agreements to each of the
Intercreditor Agreement and the Lockbox Agreement executed by the Agent on
behalf of the Lenders on the Closing Date, making the Agent a party to the
Intercreditor Agreement and the Lockbox Agreement.   

Interest Expense . For any period, the aggregate amount of net interest
expense as shown for such period on the income statement of the Borrower
prepared in accordance with GAAP.   

Interest Period . With respect of any Payment Date, (x) the period
commencing on (and including) the immediately preceding Payment Date (or, in the
case of the first Interest Period, the Closing Date) to (but excluding) such
Payment Date or (y) such other period as the Borrower and the Agent shall
agree.   

Interest Rate Hedge Agreement . An ISDA interest rate cap agreement, ISDA
interest rate swap agreement, ISDA interest rate ceiling agreement, ISDA
interest rate floor agreement or any combination of the foregoing or other
similar agreement, in each case in form and substance including any schedules
and confirmations prepared and delivered in connection therewith, pursuant to
which recourse by the Interest Rate Hedge Provider to the Borrower is limited to
the Collateral and the Distributable Cash Flow which pursuant to the terms of
this Agreement is available for such purpose.   

Interest Rate Hedge Provider . Any counterparty to an Interest Rate Hedge
Agreement or other cap, collar or other hedging instrument permitted to be
entered into pursuant to this Agreement.   

Interest Rate Hedge Provider Minimum Rating Downgrade Even t. Unless
waived in writing by the Agent (acting at the direction of the Majority Lenders
and the Borrower), the Interest Rate Hedge Provider s (or any party
providing credit support on its behalf) rating with respect its unsecured and
unsubordinated debt, deposit or letter of credit obligations are rated as set
forth in the table below:   

Rating of Interest Rate Hedge Provider   

Interest Rate Hedge Provider only has a 
 long-term rating    
      Interest Rate Hedge Provider has both a 
 long-term rating and a short-term rating    

S P    
       Moody s    
       S P    
       Moody s    

Long-term of "A" or lower 
      Long-term of "A1" and on watch or lower 
      Long-term of "A-" or lower or Short-term of "A2" or lower 
      Long-term of "A2" and on watch or lower or short-term of "P1" and on watch or lower 

Interest Rate Hedge Provider Required Rating Downgrade Event . Unless
waived in writing by the Agent (acting at the direction of the Majority Lenders
and the Borrower), the Interest Rate Hedge Provider s (or any party
providing credit support on its behalf) rating with respect its unsecured and
unsubordinated debt, deposit or letter of credit obligations are rated as set
forth in the table below:   

Rating of Interest Rate Hedge Provider   

Interest Rate Hedge Provider only has a 
 long-term rating    
      Interest Rate Hedge Provider has both a 
 long-term rating and a short-term rating    

S P    
       Moody s    
       S P    
       Moody s    

Long-term of "BBB+" or lower 
      Long-term of "A3" and on watch or lower 
      Long-term of "BBB+" or lower 
      Long-term of "Baa1" and on watch or lower or short-term of "P2" and on watch or lower 

Interpool Containers . Interpool Containers Limited, a company organized
under the laws of Barbados, and its successors and permitted assigns.

Interpool Limited . Interpool Limited, a company organized under the laws
of Barbados, and its successors and permitted assigns.   

Investment . The purchase or acquisition of any share of capital stock,
partnership or limited liability company interest, evidence of indebtedness or
other equity security of any other Person; any loan, advance or extension of
credit to, or contribution to the capital of, any other Person, other than
extensions of credit resulting from the sale of goods (where the Borrower
retains title to, or a security interest in, any Container sold) or rendering of
services in the ordinary course of the Borrower s business; any real estate
held for sale or investment; any commodities futures contracts held other than
in connection with bona fide hedging transactions; any other investment in any
other Person; and the making of any commitment or acquisition of any option to
make any such Investment.   

Key Officer . As defined in clause (j) of the definition of the term
"Early Amortization Event".   

Law . Any law (including common law), constitution, statute, treaty,
convention, regulation, rule, ordinance, order, injunction, writ, decree or
award of any Governmental Authority.   

Lease  or  Lease Agreement . All leases or contracts for use or hire
of a Container (other than the CAI Agreement) by a Lessee and the Borrower (or
one of its Affiliates acting as agent for the Borrower) as lessor, but only to
the extent such lease or contract relates to a Container.   

Lease Proceeds . All rents, fees, lease payments and other amounts due or
collected under the Leases in respect of the Containers.   

Lender(s) . Individually, each of the banks or financial institutions
(including, without limitation, any Conduit Lenders) signatory hereto or which
may provide additional commitments and become a party to this Agreement as a
Lender hereunder, as set forth in  Schedule 4 , as it may be amended from
time to time, and each of their respective successors and permitted assigns and
collectively, all such banks or other financial institutions and their
respective successors and permitted assigns.   

Lessee . A person that is contractually obligated to make rental and other
payments under a Lease, including any guarantor of such obligations.   

Liabilities . As defined in Section 2(a) of the Parent Guaranty.

Lien . Any mortgage, pledge, security interest, lien or other charge or
encumbrance, including the lien or retained security title of a conditional
vendor, upon or with respect to any property or assets.   

Loan Documents . This Agreement, the Class A Notes, the Class B Notes, the
Security Agreement, the Parent Guaranty, the Performance Guaranty, the
Contribution and Sale Agreement, the Servicing Agreement, the Structuring Fee
Letter, the Agent Fee Letter, the Facility Fee Letter, the Interest Rate Hedge
Agreements (upon execution thereof), the syndication side letter, each Credit
Support Agreement, the CAI notice of assignment, the Lockbox Agreement and the
Intercreditor and Lockbox Administration Agreement.   

Lockbox Account .  As defined in the Servicing Agreement.   

Lockbox Agreement . That certain Lockbox Agreement, dated as of December
14, 2005, among Interpool Container Funding, SRL, Interpool Containers Limited,
Interpool, Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, as lockbox administrator, the
Agent, Fortis Capital Corp. and such other equipment owners and equipment
lenders named therein or as may become a party from time to time, as such
agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented in accordance with its terms,
including as supplemented by the execution of any joinder agreement.   

Majority Lenders . So long as any Class A Note remains unpaid or any
Commitment remains in effect with respect to any Class A Lender, Class A Lenders
which, individually or in the aggregate, represent more than sixty-six and two
thirds percent (66?%) of the then Aggregate Commitments or, if the Conversion
Date has occurred, of the then Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balance; and, if
no Class A Note remains unpaid and no Commitment of a Class A Lender remains in
effect, Class B Lenders which, individually or in the aggregate, represent more
than fifty percent (50%) of the then Aggregate Class B Note Principal Balance.

Management Agreement . To the extent it relates to the Containers, means
that certain letter agreement, dated February 12, 2004, by and between Interpool
Limited and CAI, as amended, modified or otherwise supplemented from time to
time.   

Materially Adverse Effect . Any act, omission, event, condition or
circumstance or undertaking which would, singly or in the aggregate, have a
materially adverse effect upon (a) the business, assets, properties,
liabilities, condition (financial or otherwise), or results of operations of the
Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or of the Borrower
considered individually, (b) upon the respective ability of the Parent Guarantor
or any of its Subsidiaries to perform any obligations under this Agreement or
under any other Loan Document to which it is a party, or (c) the legality,
validity, binding effect or enforceability or the ability of the Agent to
enforce any rights or remedies under or in connection with any Loan Document; in
any case, whether resulting from any single act, omission, situation, status,
event, or undertaking, together with other such acts, omissions situations,
statuses, events, or undertakings.   

Maximum Asset Base . As of the date of determination, an amount equal to
the sum of (1) the product of (i) ninety percent (90%) and (ii) the sum of (A)
the then Aggregate Net Book Value and (B) the then Aggregate Finance Lease
Value, plus (2) 100% of all cash and Eligible Investments then on deposit in the
Restricted Cash Account.   

Moody s . Moody s Investors Service, Inc. and any successors
thereto.   

Net Book Value . With respect to any Eligible Container that is not
subject to a Finance Lease, the Original Equipment Cost of such Container less
accumulated depreciation calculated based on (i) straight-line depreciation over
15 years with a remaining residual value of 15% of the Original Equipment Cost
at the end of such period, or (ii) any other depreciation method used by the
Servicer which is more conservative than the depreciation policy outlined in
clause (i) (i.e., more conservative policy in terms of greater annual
depreciation or a lower remaining residual value).   

Net Operating Income or  NOI .  For the containers owned by the
Borrower for any period of time, the Gross Lease Revenues received with respect
to such containers minus the Direct Operating Expenses incurred with respect to
such containers.   

Net Income . For any fiscal period of the any Person, the consolidated net
income of such Person and its Subsidiaries for such period determined in
accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.   

Note . Either or both, as the context may require, of the Class A Notes
and the Class B Notes.   

Obligations . All indebtedness, obligations and liabilities of the
Borrower to the Agent, or the Lenders and/or any Credit Support Party (to the
extent they have funded a Credit Loan previously held by a Conduit Lender)
existing on the date of this Agreement or arising thereafter, whether direct or
indirect, joint or several, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured,
liquidated or unliquidated, secured or unsecured, arising by contract, operation
of law or otherwise under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan
Documents.   

Officers  Certificate . A certificate signed on behalf of a
Corporation by its Chairman of the Board, President or Executive Vice President
and by its Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, Controller, Secretary or
Assistant Secretary.   

Oldco . Interpool Container Funding, SRL, a society with restricted
liability organized under the laws of Barbados.   

Opinion of Counsel .   A written opinion of counsel, who, unless
otherwise specified or unless the opinion is being rendered in respect of the
laws of any jurisdiction other than the Untied States of America, may be counsel
employed internally by the Parent Guarantor or the Servicer, in each case
reasonably acceptable to the Person or Persons to whom such Opinion of Counsel
is to be delivered. The counsel rendering such opinion may rely (i) as to
factual matters, on a certificate of a Person whose duties relate to the matters
being certified, and (ii) insofar as the opinion relates to local law matters,
upon opinions of local counsel.   

Original Equipment Cost . With respect to any container, an amount equal
to the sum of (i) the vendor s or manufacturer s invoice price, plus
(ii) reasonable and customary out-of-pocket direct costs related to inspection,
transport and initial positioning necessary to put such Container in its initial
service; provided, however, that, in no event shall the amounts described in
clause (ii) include any allocated overhead expenses of the Servicer. In no event
shall the Original Equipment Cost of a container include any allocated purchase
price resulting from the acquisition of such container by the Borrower or any
Affiliate of the Borrower.   

Parent Guarantor . Interpool, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws
of the State of Delaware, and its successors and permitted assigns.   

Parent Guaranty . The Guaranty, dated as of December 21, 2005 and
substantially in the form of   Exhibit K-1  , issued by the Parent
Guarantor.

Participant(s) . As defined in   Section 16(f)  .

Payment Date . The twentieth (20 th ) day of each month, provided
that if such day is not a Business Day, then the next succeeding Business Day or
if such day would fall in the succeeding calendar month, the preceding Business
Day.   

PBGC . The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation created by ERISA or any
governmental authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation.   

Performance Guaranty . The Performance Guaranty, dated as of December 21,
2005 and substantially in the form of   Exhibit K-2  , issued by
Interpool Limited.   

Permitted Liens . With respect to any item of Collateral, any or all of
the following: (i) with respect to a Container, Liens for taxes not yet
delinquent or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings
and for the payment of which adequate reserves are maintained; (ii) with respect
to a Container, carriers , warehousemen s, mechanics, or other like
Liens arising in the ordinary course of business and relating to amounts not yet
due or which shall not have been overdue for a period of more than sixty (60)
days or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and
for the payment of which adequate reserves are maintained; provided, however, in
no event shall any such contest result in the loss of the affected Container;
(iii) with respect to a Container, Leases entered into in the ordinary course of
business providing for the leasing of such Container; (iv) with respect to any
Container then on lease to a Lessee, any purchase option in favor of such Lessee
that is set forth in such Lease; and (v) Liens created by the Security Agreement
or any other Loan Document; provided that any proceedings of the type described
in clauses (i) and (ii) above could not (A) reasonably be expected to subject
the Agent or any Lender to any civil or criminal penalty or liability or (B)
involve any significant risk of material loss, sale or forfeiture of all, or any
material portion of, the Collateral.   

Person . An individual, any partnership, a corporation, a joint venture, a
trust, an unincorporated organization, or a government or any agency or
political subdivision thereof.   

Plan . At any time, an employee pension or other benefit plan that is
subject to Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under
Section 412 of the Code and is either (a) maintained by the Borrower or any
member of the Controlled Group for employees of the Borrower or any member of
the Controlled Group, or (b) if such Plan is established, maintained pursuant to
a collective bargaining agreement or any other arrangement under which more than
one employer makes contributions and to which the Borrower or any member of the
Controlled Group is then making or accruing an obligation to make contributions
or has within the preceding five Plan years made contributions.   

Post Closing Leases . Each of the Leases set forth on Schedule 6 hereto.

Post Revolving Period Class A Targeted Advance Rate.  For each Payment
Date occurring on or after the Conversion Date, the percentage set forth
opposite such Payment Date in
 Schedule 5  hereto under the column titled  Post Revolving Period Class A
Targeted Advance Rate .   

Proceeds . The meaning assigned to such term under the UCC.   

Prohibited Institution . Any institution designated by the Borrower as a
 prohibited institution  in a side letter delivered to the Agent;
provided, however, that: (i) no more than five (5) institutions may be listed at
any one time as a  prohibited institution , (ii) such prohibited
institution may only be an institution at which the Servicer or its Affiliates
maintains a bank account, (iii) institutions that the Agent has contacted prior
to the Closing Date in connection with the syndication of this Agreement may not
be designated as a  prohibited institution , (iv) no existing Lender,
including Gotham Funding Corporation as a Conduit Lender and each of BTM Capital
Corporation and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., as its Credit Support Party
may be a Prohibited Institution and (v) designations may only be made
prospectively.   

Prohibited Jurisdiction . Any country or jurisdiction, from time to time,
that is subject of a prohibition order (or any similar order or directive),
sanctions or restrictions promulgated or administered by the Office of Foreign
Assets Control of the United States Treasury Department.   

Prohibited Person . Any Person appearing on the Specially Designated
Nationals List compiled and disseminated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control
of the United States Treasury Department, as the same may be amended from time
to time.   

Refinancing Event.  Placement of notes or other evidences of indebtedness
(or interests therein) issued by the Borrower into the asset backed securities
term market or the bank market, or notes or other evidences of Indebtedness (or
interests therein) issued by the Borrower that shall have received an
 AAA  rating by S P as the result of the Borrower having obtained
external credit enhancement.   

Register . As defined in   Section 16(d)  .   

Related Assets . With respect to any Container, all of the following:
(i)  all of Seller s right, title and interest in and to, but none of
its obligations under, any agreement between a Seller and the manufacturer of
each such Container pursuant to which such Seller acquired a transferred
container from such manufacturer, and all amendments, additions and supplements
hereafter made with respect thereto, (ii) all of Seller s right, title
and interest in and to any Lease which such Container is subject to on the
Transfer Date for such Container, including all lease revenues accrued on or
after the Cut-Off Date, (iii) all right, title and interest of such Seller
in and to all payments, proceeds and other amounts which have accrued but have
not been paid, and (iv) all payments, proceeds and income of the foregoing
or related thereto.   

Release . Any release, spill, emission, leaking, pumping, injection,
deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, leaching, or migration in, by, from or
related to any real property (including all buildings, fixtures or other
improvements located thereon) or personal property owned, leased or operated by
the Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries into the indoor or outdoor
environment, including the movement of any Hazardous Material through air, soil,
surface water, groundwater or property.   

Restricted Cash Account . The account designated as such established in
accordance with Section 2.19 hereof.   

Restricted Cash Amount . As of any Payment Date, the amount required to be
deposited or maintained in the Restricted Cash Account, which shall be equal to
one of the following amounts:   

(A)  
 
if the average Adjusted EBIT Ratio for two most recently completed calendar
quarters exceeds 1.40 to 1, zero; or

(B)  
 
if the average Adjusted EBIT Ratio for the two most recently completed calendar
quarters is less than or equal to 1.40 to 1, an amount equal to the product of
(i) four (4), (ii) one-twelfth, (iii) the weighted average (based on the then
relative composition of the Class A Asset Base) for the previous six months of,
(x) with respect to any Finance Lease and Term Lease then subject to an Interest
Rate Hedge Agreement, the interest rate per annum payable by the Borrower
thereunder for the total amount of interest payable with respect to such portion
of the Class A Asset Base, and (y) for the remaining portion of the Class A
Asset Base, the annual rate of interest payable by the Borrower on all Class A
Notes then outstanding, and (iv) the Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balances
as of such Payment Date, which principal balances shall be calculated after
giving effect to all advances of principal and principal payments made on such
Payment Date.

Revolving Credit Period.  With respect to the Class A Notes, the period
commencing on the Closing Date and ending on the Conversion Date.

S P . Standard and Poor s Ratings Service, a division of The
McGraw-Hill Companies, and any successor thereto.   

Sales Proceeds.  The proceeds of all Containers that are being sold by the
Borrower in their ordinary course of business.   

Security Agreement . The Security Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2005
and substantially in the form of  Exhibit J  hereto, pursuant to which the
Borrower has granted to the Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders and each
Interest Rate Hedge Provider, as security for the Obligations, a continuing
first priority security interest in all of the assets of the Borrower.

Security Documents . The Security Agreement, the UCC Financing Statements,
the Statement of Charge filed with the Corporate Affairs Registry in Barbados,
the Performance Guaranty and the Parent Guaranty.   

Seller . Interpool Containers.   

Senior Claim . As defined in   Section 2.11(a)  .   

Senior Claimant . As defined in   Section 2.11(a)  .   

Servicer . The Person performing the duties of the Servicer under the
Servicing Agreement; initially, Interpool Containers, a company organized under
the laws of Barbados, and its successors and permitted assigns.   

Servicer Advance . Any advance of funds made by the Servicer with respect
to delinquent Contract Payments or Lease Proceeds in accordance with the terms
of Section 4.05 of the Servicing Agreement.   

Servicer Default . Any of the events or conditions set forth in Section
7.01 of the Servicing Agreement.   

Servicing Agreement . The Servicing Agreement, dated as of December 21,
2005 and substantially in the form of  Exhibit G  hereto, pursuant to which
the Servicer agrees to manage and service, on behalf of the Borrower, the
Eligible Containers, the Eligible Leases and the Related Assets.   

Servicing Fee . This term shall have the meaning set forth in the
Servicing Agreement.   

Servicing Fee Arrearage . For any Payment Date, an amount equal to the
excess, if any, of (i) the sum of the Servicing Fee due and payable to the
Servicer on all prior Payment Dates, over (ii) the aggregate amount of Servicing
Fees actually paid to the Servicer on all prior Payment Dates.   

Specialized Containers . All types of containers, other than Standard Dry
Cargo Containers and refrigerated containers, including, but not limited to open
top, flat rack, tank and cellular palletwide containers.   

Stamping Lease . This term shall have the meaning set forth in the
Security Agreement.   

Standard Dry Cargo Container.  Any of the following types of containers:
(i) a twenty foot (20 ) dry cargo container, (ii) a forty foot (40 )
dry cargo container, or (iii) a forty foot (40 ) high cube container.

Subsidiary . The Borrower and any other present or future Corporation a
majority of whose Voting Stock shall at the time be owned directly or indirectly
or can otherwise be controlled by the Parent Guarantor and/or by one or more of
the Subsidiaries of the Parent Guarantor.   

Substitute Container . This term shall have the meaning set forth in the
Contribution and Sale Agreement.   

Substitute Lease . This term shall have the meaning set forth in the
Contribution and Sale Agreement.   

Substitution Date . With respect to Substitute Container and/or a
Substitute Lease, the Business Day on which such Substitute Container and/or
Substitute Lease are acquired by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions
of the Loan Documents.   

Tangible Net Worth . As of any date of determination the amount equal to
(A) the amount of stockholders  equity and warrant liability of the Parent
Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries appearing in the consolidated
financial statements of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are
available and prepared in accordance with GAAP, less (B) trademarks, goodwill,
covenants not to compete and all other assets classified as intangible assets
determined in accordance with GAAP, plus (C) the amount representing the Parent
Guarantor s 9-7/8% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due
2027 and the related 9-7/8% Capital Securities of Interpool Capital on the
consolidated balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial
statements are available, plus (D) the amount representing the 9.25% Convertible
Redeemable Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2022 on the consolidated balance
sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the most
recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are available, plus
(E) any future subordinated debt of Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries, plus (or minus) (F) any adjustments to the accounts of the Parent
Guarantor, both positive and negative, that results from SFAS 133/138. In this
regard,  SFAS 133/138  means, Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 133    Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities  and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 138  
 Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging
Activities, an amendment to FASB Statement No. 133  issued by the Financial
Accounting Standard Board, as such pronouncement may be amended from time to
time in accordance with its terms.   

Taxes.  Any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties,
fees, assessments, deductions, withholdings or other charges of whatever nature,
including gross receipts, excise, property, sales, transfer, license, payroll,
social security and franchise taxes now or hereafter imposed or levied by the
United States of America, or any state, local or foreign government or by any
department, agency or other political subdivision or taxing authority thereof
and all interest, penalties, additions to tax or similar liabilities with
respect thereto.   

Term Lease . A Lease, other than a Finance Lease, having an initial term
(measured from the commencement date of such lease) of thirty-six (36) months or
greater.   

Transfer Date : As defined in the Contribution and Sale Agreement.

Trust Account . The account designated as such that is established in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.18 hereof.   

Unused Commitment . With respect to any Class A Lender as of any date of
determination, the excess of (i) the Commitment Amount then in effect for such
Class A Lender, over (ii) the then unpaid principal balance of the Class A Note
owned by such Class A Lender as of such date of determination, after giving
effect to all principal payments to be received by such Class A Lender on such
date of determination.   

UCC  or  Uniform Commercial Code . The Uniform Commercial Code as the
same may be in effect in the State of New York on the date hereof;  provided,
however , that in the event that by reason of mandatory provisions of law,
any or all of the attachment, perfection or priority of Agent s security
interest in any Collateral is governed by the Uniform Commercial Code as in
effect in a jurisdiction other than the State of New York, the terms UCC and
Uniform Commercial Code shall mean the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in
such other jurisdiction for purposes of the provisions hereof relating to such
attachment, perfection of priority and for purposes of definitions related to
such provisions.   

UCC Financing Statements . UCC Financing Statements naming (i) the
Borrower as debtor, the Agent, as secured party, and the Collateral as the
collateral, and (ii) the Seller, as seller/debtor, the Borrower, as
purchaser/secured party, the Agent, as assignee of secured party, and the assets
that are the subject of the Contribution and Sale Agreement, as collateral, in
each case, filed or to be filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the
States of New Jersey, the Recorder of Deeds for the District of Columbia and
other locations from time to time with respect to the Collateral.   

Voting Stock . With respect to any Corporation, its capital stock of any
class having ordinary voting power for the election of the members of the board
of directors or other governing body of such Corporation (other than stock
having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency).   

Weighted Average Age . As of any date of determination shall be equal to
the quotient of (A) the sum for each Eligible Container and each Container
subject to an Eligible Lease of the product of (i) the age of such Eligible
Container and each Container subject to a Finance Lease and (ii) the then Net
Book Value of such Eligible Container and the Net Book Value of such Container
subject to an Eligible Lease, divided by (B) the then Aggregate Net Book Value
which for purposes of this calculation, shall include the Net Book Values of all
Containers subject to Eligible Leases.   

Section 1.2      Rules of Interpretation . 

(a)     All terms in this Agreement, the Exhibits and
Schedules hereto shall have the same defined meanings when used in any other
Loan Documents, unless the context shall require otherwise.   

(b)     Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all
financial and accounting terms not specifically defined or specified herein
shall have the meanings generally attributed to such terms under Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles, including applicable statements and
interpretations issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and
bulletins, opinions, interpretations and statements issued by the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants or its committees, and all financial
and accounting calculations referred to herein shall, to the extent applicable,
be made in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, and by
reference to the most recently delivered financial statements of the Parent
Guarantor furnished in accordance with   Section 6.4   hereof.

(c)     All personal pronouns used in this Agreement,
whether used in the masculine, feminine or neuter gender, shall include all
other genders; the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall
include the singular.   

(d)     The words  hereof ,  herein  and
 hereunder  and words of similar import when used in this Agreement
shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provisions of
this Agreement.   

(e)     The preamble hereto is part of this Agreement.
Titles of Sections in this Agreement are for convenience only, do not constitute
part of this Agreement and neither limit nor amplify the provisions of this
Agreement, and all references in this Agreement to Sections, Subsections,
paragraphs, clauses, subclauses, Schedules or Exhibits shall refer to the
corresponding Section, Subsection, paragraph, clause, subclause, Schedule or
Exhibit attached to this Agreement, unless specific reference is made to the
articles, sections or other subdivisions or divisions of such Schedule or
Exhibit to or in another document or instrument.   

(f)     Each definition of a Loan Document or other document
in this Agreement shall include such document as amended, modified,
supplemented, restated, renewed or extended from time to time.   

(g)     Except where specifically restricted, reference to a
party in a Loan Document includes that party and its successors and assigns
permitted hereunder or under such Loan Document.   

(h)     Unless otherwise specifically stated, whenever a
time is referred to in this Agreement or in any other Loan Document, such time
shall be the local time in the city in which the head office of the Agent is
located.   

(i)     Any list in this Agreement of one or more items
preceded by the words  include or  including  shall not be deemed
limited to the stated items but shall be deemed without limitation.   

(j)     Whenever this Agreement makes reference to a
party s knowledge, such knowledge shall refer to the actual knowledge of an
Authorized Officer of such party, without having made a special inquiry.

(k)     Unless otherwise stated in this Agreement, in the
computation of a period of time from a specified date to a later specified date,
the word  from  means  from and including  and the word
 to  and  until  means  to but excluding .

SECTION 2.  
  THE CREDIT LOAN . 

Section 2.1      Commitments to Make Credit
Loans .    

(a)      Commitments.  Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement and in reliance upon the representations,
warranties and covenants set forth herein, each Lender shall make available to
the Borrower on the Closing Date (or such later date on which such Lender
becomes a party to this Agreement) its Commitment in the Commitment Amount set
forth opposite the name of such Lender on  Schedule 4  hereto.   

(b)      Evidence of Credit Loans . During the
Revolving Credit Period, each of the Class A Notes shall be a revolving note
with a maximum principal amount equal to the then current Commitment of the
related Class A Lender. Each Class B Note shall be a revolving note with a
maximum principal balance equal to the then current Commitment of the related
Class B Lender.   

(c)      Funding of Credit Loans . On any Business Day
requested by the Borrower and presuming that the Borrower shall have satisfied
all applicable conditions precedent set forth in Sections 4 and 5 hereof, each
Lender shall, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, deposit
with the account designated by the Borrower by wire transfer of same day funds
not later than 4:00 p.m. (Amsterdam time) an amount equal to its  pro rata 
share of the requested Credit Loan;  provided, however,  that (i) no Class
B Lender shall be obligated to make more than two (2) Credit Loans in aggregate,
the aggregate principal amounts of such Credit Loans shall not in aggregate
exceed the Commitment of such Class B Lender, and each such Credit Loan must be
made prior to December 31, 2005 and (ii) each Credit Loan by each Class A Lender
shall be for an amount (A) not less than the lesser of (x) its then Unused
Commitment and (y) such Lender s  pro rata  share of Five Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($500,000), and (B) not greater than the then Availability of
such Class A Lender.   

(d)      Request for Credit Loan . Each Borrowing
Notice shall be submitted in writing to the Agent by no later than 4:00 p.m.
(Amsterdam time) on the fourth (4 th ) Business Day prior to the date
of the requested Credit Loan, and the Agent shall promptly (but in no event
later than 6:00 p.m. (Amsterdam time) on the Business Day after a Borrowing
Notice is received) provide each Lender with a copy of each such Borrowing
Notice accompanied by all of the attachments set forth in the definition
thereof. Such notice shall include a calculation of the Class A Asset Base and,
with respect to each Funding Date on which a Credit Loan will be made by a Class
B Lender, the Class B Asset Base (calculated, in each case, to include any
Eligible Containers and/or Eligible Leases to be acquired with the proceeds of
such Credit Loan). Each Borrowing Notice shall constitute a reaffirmation by
Borrower that (1) no Default, Event of Default, Early Amortization Event or
Servicer Default has occurred and is continuing and no event or condition has
occurred or is existing that with the giving of notice or the passage of time or
both would constitute an Event of Default, Early Amortization Event or a
Servicer Default and (2) the representations and warranties of the Borrower, the
Servicer and the Parent Guarantor contained in the Loan Documents are true,
correct and complete in all material respects to the same extent as though made
on and as of the date of the request, except to the extent such representations
and warranties specifically relate to an earlier date, in which event such
representations and warranties shall be true, correct and complete in all
material respects as of such earlier date.   

(e)     A Borrowing Notice, once delivered to the Agent,
shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. If any Credit Loan requested
by the Borrower is not made or effectuated on the specified Funding Date, for
any reason whatsoever related to a default or nonperformance by the Borrower,
the Borrower shall pay Funding Losses. In connection with any Credit Loan or any
Funding Date, all of the Lenders may, in their collective and absolute
discretion, grant the Borrower extensions and/or waivers in fulfilling its
obligations under this Section 2.1 and in fulfilling the conditions set forth in
Section 5 hereof.   

(f)      Obligations of Lenders Several . The failure
of any Lender to make a Credit Loan hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender
of its obligation to make a Credit Loan on such funding date, but no Lender
shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Credit Loan
to be made by such other Lender on such Funding Date.   

(g)      Extension of the Revolving Credit Period . The
Borrower may, within 60 days, but no later than 45 days, prior to the date set
forth in item (i) of the definition of Conversion Date (or such shorter period,
as has been approved by all of the Class A Lenders), by written notice to each
Class A Lender request the extension of the Revolving Credit Period for an
additional period of up to 364 days from the date on which the renewal is
approved. Each of the Lenders shall make a determination, in its sole discretion
and after a full credit review, within 30 days of its receipt of the
Borrower s request, as to whether or not it will agree to extend the
Revolving Credit Period;  provided, however,  that the failure of any Class
A Lender to make a timely response to the Borrower s request for extension
of the Revolving Credit Period shall be deemed to constitute a refusal by such
Class A Lender to extend the Revolving Credit Period. The Revolving Credit
Period shall only be extended upon the consent of 100% of the Class A Lenders.
Any such renewal shall become effective only upon written confirmation to the
Borrower by each Class A Lender of its agreement to so renew and upon receipt by
each Class A Lender of a renewal fee in an amount as shall be determined at such
time.   

Section 2.2      The Notes  . The obligation
of the Borrower to repay a Credit Loan and to pay interest thereon and other
sums which may become payable with respect thereto shall be evidenced by two
separate classes of promissory notes issued by the Borrower designated as Class
A Note(s) and Class B Note(s). Each Note shall evidence the Borrower s
obligations in respect of the Credit Loans extended by the related Class A
Lender or Class B Lender, as the case may be, and shall be denominated in an
amount up to the Commitment Amount of such Lender; provided, however, that the
indebtedness evidenced by such Note shall in no event exceed the aggregate
principal amount of all Credit Loans at any time advanced by the payee Lender
that remain unpaid. Each Lender shall endorse on its Note, or enter in a record
pertaining thereto, all Credit Loans and repayments thereof,  provided 
that the failure by any Lender to make any such notation shall not affect the
unconditional obligation of the Borrower to pay all amounts due under the Note
held by such Lender as and when payments with respect to the Credit Loan are
due.   

Section 2.3      Principal Payments on the
Notes . 

(a)      Class A Notes during Revolving Period . On
each Payment Date occurring during the Revolving Credit Period, the Borrower
shall pay to the Agent, on behalf of each Class A Lender, in accordance
with the priority of payments set forth in subpart (I) of Section 2.18(b), a
principal payment on its Class A Note in an amount equal to its  pro rata 
share of the Class A Asset Base Deficiency (if any) for such Payment Date.

(b)      Class A Notes Subsequent to Revolving Period .
On each Payment Date occurring after the Revolving Credit Period has expired or
been terminated and on which no Early Amortization Event is continuing, the
Borrower shall pay to the Agent, on behalf of each Class A Lender, an amount
equal to its  pro rata  share of the Class A Scheduled Principal Payment
for such Payment Date.   

(c)      Class A Notes during Early Amortization Event or
Event of Default . On each Payment Date on which an Early Amortization Event
is then continuing, all of the remaining available Distributable Cash Flow will,
in accordance with the priority of payments set forth in subpart (II) of Section
2.18(b), be used to repay the then Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balance;
provided, however, that if only a Designated Early Amortization Event is then
continuing, then, so long as no other Early Amortization Event is then
continuing, then the aggregate principal payment to the Class A Lenders shall be
equal to the sum of (A) the Designated Early Amortization Amount and (B) the
Class A Scheduled Principal Payment payable for such Payment Date. On each
Payment Date on which an Event of Default is then continuing, all of the
remaining available Distributable Cash Flow will, in accordance with the
priority of payments set forth in subpart (III) of Section 2.18(b), be used to
repay in full the principal balance of the Class A Notes.   

(d)      Class B Notes Prior to Class B Conversion
Date . On each Payment Date occurring prior to the Class B Conversion Date,
the Borrower shall pay to the Agent, on behalf of each Class B Lender, in
accordance with the priority of payments set forth in subpart (I) of Section
2.18(b), a principal payment on its Class B Note in an amount equal to its
 pro rata  share of the Class B Asset Base Deficiency (if any) for such
Payment Date.   

(e)      Class B Notes on or Subsequent to Class B
Conversion Date . On each Payment Date occurring on or subsequent to the
Class B Conversion Date and on which no Early Amortization Event is continuing,
the Borrower shall pay to the Agent, on behalf of each Class B Lender, an amount
equal to its  pro rata  share of the Class B Scheduled Principal Payment
for such Payment Date.   

(f)      Class B Notes During Early Amortization Event or
Event of Default . On each Payment Date on which an Early Amortization Event
is then continuing, all of the remaining available Distributable Cash Flow will,
in accordance with the priority of payments set forth in subpart (II) of Section
2.18(b), be used, after giving effect to the principal payments to be made on
the Class A Notes pursuant to paragraph (c) above, to repay the then unpaid
principal balance of the Class B Notes. On each Payment Date on which an Event
of Default is then continuing, all of the remaining available Distributable Cash
Flow will, after giving effect to the payments to be made on the Class A Notes
pursuant to paragraph (c) above, in accordance with the priority of payments set
forth in subpart (III) of Section 2.18(b), be used to repay the principal
balance of the Class B Notes.   

(g)      Payments on Final Maturity Date . The unpaid
principal balance of, and all accrued interest and other amounts owing on, or
with respect to, the Notes shall be payable in full on the earlier to occur of
(x) their respective Final Maturity Date and (y) the date on which the Note(s)
have been declared due and payable in accordance with the provisions of Section
9 hereof.   

Section 2.4      Interest on the Credit
Loan .    

(a)     Interest will be payable on each Class A Note and
each Class B Note on each Payment Date in an amount equal to the Class A Note
Interest Payment and the Class B Note Interest Payment, respectively. To the
extent that the amount of the Class A Note Interest Payment and/or the Class B
Note Interest Payment that is due on any Payment Date is not paid when due, such
shortfall, together with interest thereon at the applicable Default Rate, shall
be due and payable on the next succeeding Payment Date.   

(b)     In no event shall the interest charged with respect
to a Note exceed the maximum amount permitted by Applicable Law. If at any time
the interest rate charged with respect to a Note exceeds the maximum rate
permitted by Applicable Law, the rate of interest to accrue pursuant to such
Note shall be limited to the maximum rate permitted by Applicable Law, but any
subsequent reductions in Eurodollar Rate shall not reduce the interest to accrue
on such Note below the maximum amount permitted by Applicable Law until the
total amount of interest accrued on such Note equals the amount of interest that
would have accrued if a varying rate per annum equal to the interest rate had at
all times been in effect. If the total amount of interest paid or accrued on the
Note under the foregoing provisions is less than the total amount of interest
that would have accrued if the interest rate had at all times been in effect,
the Borrower agrees to pay to the affected Lender(s) an amount equal to the
difference between (a) the lesser of (i) the amount of interest that would have
accrued if the maximum rate permitted by Applicable Law had at all times been in
effect, or (ii) the amount of interest that would have accrued if the interest
rate had at all times been in effect, and (b) the amount of interest accrued in
accordance with the other provisions of this Agreement.   

(c)     All computations of interest hereunder shall be made
on the basis of a year composed of 360 days and calculated for the actual number
days elapsed. Each overdue amount payable to the Agent or the Lenders under this
Agreement or any Note, whether of principal, interest, Funding Losses, or
otherwise, shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, bear interest from
the due date thereof to the date such amount is paid in full (whether before or
after judgment) at the Default Rate from time to time in effect, compounded
daily and payable by the Borrower upon demand by the Agent or any Lender at any
time and from time to time.   

Section 2.5      Revolving Credit Facility/Term
Loan Facility .    

The facility evidenced by this Agreement is a revolving credit facility with
respect to the Class A Notes. Accordingly, the Borrower will, subject to
compliance with the terms of this Agreement and prior to the occurrence of the
Conversion Date, have the right to reborrow any amounts repaid to the Lenders
with respect to the Class A Notes in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement. The facility evidenced by this Agreement is a term loan facility with
respect to the Class B Notes. Accordingly, the Borrower will not have the right
to reborrow any amounts repaid to the Lender with respect to the Class B Notes
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.   

Section 2.6      Fees .  (a) At the times
and in the amounts set forth in the Facility Fee Letter, the Borrower shall pay
to the Agent the "Facility Fee" described therein.   

(b)     On each Payment Date occurring on or prior to the
Conversion Date, on the Conversion Date and, if the Conversion Date does not
occur on a Payment Date, on the Payment Date immediately following the
Conversion Date, the Borrower shall pay to each Class A Lender a commitment fee
with respect to its Commitment (the  Commitment Fee ) in an amount
equal to the product of (i) forty-five hundredths of one percent (0.45%), (ii)
the average Unused Commitment of such Class A Lender for the Interest Period (or
portion thereof) ended on the immediately preceding day or the Conversion Date,
as the case may be, and (iii) a fraction the numerator of which is the actual
number of days in the Interest Period (or portion thereof) referred to in clause
(ii) above, and the denominator of which is 360.   

(c)     At the times and in the amounts set forth in the
Agent Fee Letter, the Borrower shall pay the Agent Fee to the Agent in
accordance with the priority of payments set forth in Section 2.18 hereof.

Section 2.7      Prepayments .    

(a)      Voluntary Prepayment . Upon not less than
thirty (30) days  prior written notice to the Agent, the Borrower may, on
any Payment Date, prepay, in whole or in part, the then unpaid principal amount
of all of the Class A Notes and/or the Class B Notes. In furtherance of the
foregoing, the Borrower shall be permitted to prepay, in accordance with the
provisions of this Section 2.7, all or any portion of the Class A Notes without
the need for any portion of the Class B Notes and vice versa. In connection with
any prepayment made in accordance with the provisions of this  Section
2.7(a) , the Borrower shall be required to pay, contemporaneously with such
prepayment, an amount equal to the sum of (i) accrued interest on the principal
balance being prepaid calculated through the date of such prepayment, and (ii)
any Funding Losses incurred as the result of such prepayment. Any such partial
voluntary prepayment of the Class A Notes made subsequent to the Conversion Date
shall be used to reduce all future Class A Scheduled Principal Payments in equal
amounts.   

(b)      Mandatory Payments for Class A Asset Base
Deficiency and Class B Asset Base Deficiency . On each Payment Date, the
Borrower shall make a mandatory payment of the Class A Notes in an amount equal
to the Class A Asset Base Deficiency;  provided, however , that the failure
to make such payment shall not in itself constitute an Event of Default unless
and until such time as an Event of Default would occur pursuant to the
provisions of Section 8(o) hereof. On each Payment Date, the Borrower shall make
a mandatory payment of the Class B Notes in an amount equal to the Class B Asset
Base Deficiency;  provided, however , that the failure to make such payment
shall not in itself constitute an Event of Default until such time as an Event
of Default would occur pursuant to the provisions of Section 8(s) hereto.

(c)      Mandatory Prepayment for Servicer Default .
Upon the occurrence of a Servicer Default (unless otherwise waived in accordance
with the Servicing Agreement and except for a CAI Servicer Default), the
Borrower shall be required to make a mandatory prepayment of:   

(i) the Class A Notes in an amount equal to the lesser of (x) the then Aggregate
Class A Note Principal Balance and (y) the then remaining Aggregate Maximum
Guaranteed Payment; and

(ii) after giving effect to the prepayment of the Class A Notes described in
clause (i), the Class B Notes in an amount equal to the lesser of (x) the then
Aggregate Class B Note Principal Balance and (y) the then remaining Aggregate
Maximum Guaranteed Payment (after giving effect to the payment of the Class A
Notes made pursuant to clause (i) above). Any payment made by the Parent
Guarantor to the Agent pursuant to the terms of the Parent Guaranty as the
consequence of a Servicer Default shall be deemed to be a prepayment by the
Borrower.

In connection with any prepayment made in accordance with the
provisions of this  Section 2.7(c) , the Borrower shall be required to pay,
contemporaneously with such prepayment, an amount equal to the sum of (i)
accrued interest on the principal balance being prepaid, calculated through the
date of such prepayment, and (ii) any Funding Losses incurred as the result of
such prepayment.   

(d)      Voluntary Prepayment Related to Certain Events of
Default . Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default of the type set forth in
Section 8(m), the Borrower may prepay in whole (but not in part) the then unpaid
principal amount of all of the Notes. In connection with any prepayment made in
accordance with the provisions of this  Section 2.7(d) , the Borrower shall
be required to pay, contemporaneously with such prepayment, an amount equal to
the sum of (i) accrued interest on the principal balance being prepaid
calculated through the date of such prepayment, and (ii) any Funding Losses
incurred as the result of such prepayment   

Section 2.8      Illegality or
Impossibility .  (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement, if on any date: (A) the introduction of, change in, or change in the
interpretation by any central bank or other Governmental Authority of, any Law
or regulation applicable to any Lender shall make it unlawful, or any central
bank or other governmental authority having jurisdiction thereof shall assert
that it is unlawful for any Lender to permit a Credit Loan to be loaned on a
Eurodollar Rate Basis in accordance with the provisions hereof, or (B) if any
Lender shall reasonably determine that: (i) by reason of circumstances affecting
the Eurodollar interbank market, adequate and reasonable methods do not exist
for ascertaining the Eurodollar Rate which would otherwise be applicable during
any Interest Period, (ii) deposits of Dollars in the relevant amount and for the
relevant Interest Period are not available to such Lender in the Eurodollar
interbank market, or (iii) the Eurodollar Rate does not or will not accurately
reflect the cost to such Lender of maintaining any Credit Loan on a Eurodollar
Rate Basis during any Interest Period, then such affected Lender shall promptly
give facsimile or other written notice of such determination to the Agent, and
the Agent shall promptly give facsimile or other written notice of such
determination to the Borrower (which notice shall be conclusive and binding upon
the Borrower) and to the other Lenders. Upon such notification by the Agent, the
obligation of the affected Lender(s) to lend or maintain any Credit Loan on the
applicable Eurodollar Rate Basis shall be suspended until the affected Lender
determines that such circumstances no longer exist. Upon such notification and
suspension by the Agent, the Borrower shall have the option to prepay
immediately the affected Credit Loans in full without penalty or premium;
 provided, however,  that the Borrower shall pay all of the following: (i)
any Funding Losses, (ii) accrued interest on the principal balance being
prepaid, calculated through the date of such prepayment and (iii) any additional
amounts or fees payable to each of the Lenders pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement. If the Borrower shall not exercise its option to prepay immediately
then, unless any such Law, regulation or other authority requires otherwise, any
existing Credit Loan shall continue to bear interest at the applicable
Eurodollar Rate Basis until the succeeding Payment Date, and thereafter, shall
bear interest at the sum of (A) the Class A Applicable Margin in the case of the
Class A Notes or the Class B Applicable Margin in the case of the Class B Notes,
plus (B) the lower of (x) the Lender s cost of funds and (y) the prime or
base rate of interest announced by from time to time by Citibank, N.A. If such
Law, regulation, interpretation or other authority requires any existing Credit
Loan bearing interest on a Eurodollar Rate Basis to be converted prior to the
succeeding Payment Date, the Borrower shall pay to the Agent on demand any
required Funding Losses.   

(b)     Each Lender will make reasonable efforts and will
take reasonable actions (including, without limitation, the designation of a
different lending office for the Credit Loan) if such efforts and/or actions
will avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, such compensation and will
not, in the sole opinion of such Lender, be disadvantageous to such Lender.

Section 2.9      Additional Costs and Expenses;
Reserve Charge; Capital Requirements .    

(a)     Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement, if after the date hereof the enactment of, change in or change in the
interpretation of any Law (which expression, as used herein, includes statutes,
rules and regulations thereunder and interpretations thereof by any competent
court or by any governmental or other regulatory body or official charged with
the administration or interpretation thereof, and requests, directives,
instructions and notices at any time or from time to time hereafter made upon or
otherwise issued to any Lender (or Credit Support Party) by any central bank or
other fiscal, monetary or other authority, whether or not having the force of
law) shall: (i) subject any Lender (or Credit Support Party) to any tax, levy,
impost, duty, charge, fee, deduction or withholding of any nature with respect
to this Agreement or any Loan Document or with respect to maintaining any Credit
Loan on a Eurodollar Rate Basis (except for Taxes on the overall net income of
such Lender (or Credit Support Party) or any franchise Taxes in lieu thereof);
or (ii) materially change the basis of taxation of payments to any Lender of the
principal of, interest or any other amounts payable by the Borrower while a
Credit Loan is on a Eurodollar Rate Basis; or (iii) impose or increase or render
applicable any special deposit or reserve or similar requirements against assets
held by, or deposits in or for the respective accounts of, or loans (including
the Credit Loan) made by any Lender (or Credit Support Party); or (iv) impose on
any Lender (or Credit Support Party) any other conditions or requirements with
respect to this Agreement, and the result of any of the foregoing is: (A) to
increase the cost to such Lender of maintaining (or agreeing to acquire or
maintain) a Credit Loan on a Eurodollar Rate Basis; or (B) to reduce the amount
of principal, interest or other amount payable to such Lender (or Credit Support
Party) hereunder; or (C) to require such Lender (or Credit Support Party) to
make any payment or to forego any interest or other sum payable hereunder, the
amount of which payment or foregone interest or other sum is calculated by
reference to the gross amount of any sum receivable or deemed received by the
Agent from the Borrower hereunder, then, and in each such case, the Borrower
shall, on the Payment Date following demand made by the Agent (following notice
thereof from the affected Lender (or Credit Support Party) to the Agent) at any
time and from time to time as often as the occasion therefor may arise, pay to
the Agent in accordance with the priority of payments set forth in Section 2.18
hereof such additional amounts as will be sufficient, in the reasonable judgment
of the affected Lender (or Credit Support Party), to compensate such Lender (or
Credit Support Party) for such additional costs, reduction, payment or foregone
interest or other amount;  provided, however , that if an affected Lender
(or Credit Support Party) fails to notify the Borrower of such additional costs,
reductions, foregone interest or other amounts within ninety (90) days after
such Lender (or Credit Support Party) obtains actual notice that such amounts
have been or will be incurred, then such Lender (or Credit Support Party) should
only be entitled to payment of such costs, reductions or other amounts incurred
from and after the date 90 days prior to the date on which the affected Lender
(or Credit Support Party) gives such notice, and  provided further  that,
in lieu of paying such additional fee, the Borrower shall have the option to
prepay immediately the Credit Loan of the affected Lender (or Credit Support
Party) in full (together with accrued interest thereon) without penalty or
premium except for (i) any Funding Losses that may become due and payable as a
consequence of such prepayment, (ii) accrued interest on the principal balance
being prepaid, calculated through the date of such prepayment, and (iii) any
additional amounts or fees payable to each of the Lenders pursuant to the
provisions of this Section 2.9(a) that were not eliminated by virtue of such
prepayment.   

(b)     If any Lender (or Credit Support Party) shall have
determined that: (i) the adoption of or change after the date hereof in any Law,
rule, regulation or guideline regarding capital requirements for banks or bank
holding companies, or any change after the date hereof in the interpretation or
administration thereof by any Governmental Authority, central bank or comparable
agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or (ii)
compliance by such Lender or its parent bank holding company with any guideline,
request or directive of such entity issued after the date hereof regarding
capital adequacy (whether or not having the force of law) has or would have the
effect of reducing the return on such Lender s or such holding
company s capital as a consequence of any Credit Loan made or agreed to be
made or acquired, by such Lender (or Credit Support Party) pursuant to the terms
of this Agreement or the Loan Documents to a level below that which such Lender
(or Credit Support Party) could have achieved (taking into consideration such
Lender s policies with respect to capital adequacy immediately before such
adoption, change or compliance and assuming that such Lender s (or Credit
Support Party) capital was fully utilized prior to such adoption, change or
compliance) but for such adoption, change or compliance, then (A) such Lender
(or Credit Support Party) shall promptly after its determination of such
occurrence give notice thereof to the Agent, and thereafter the Agent shall
promptly give notice thereof to the Borrower; and (B) the Borrower shall, on the
Payment Date following demand therefore from the Agent, pay to the Agent in
accordance with the priority of payments set forth in Section 2.18 hereof for
the respective account(s) of the affected Lender(s), as an additional fee such
amount as each affected Lender(s) (or Credit Support Party) shall have certified
to the Agent to be the amount that will compensate it for such reduction,
 provided  that in lieu of paying such additional fee, the Borrower shall
have the option to prepay immediately the Credit Loan in full (together with
accrued interest thereon) without penalty or premium except for (i) any Funding
Losses that may become due and payable as a consequence of such prepayment, (ii)
accrued interest on the principal balance being prepaid, calculated through the
date of such prepayment and (iii) any additional amounts or fees payable to each
of the Lenders pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2.9(b) that were not
eliminated by virtue of such prepayment.   

Section 2.10    The Agent s or
Lender s Certificates  . A certificate signed by the Agent or any
Lender setting forth any additional amount required to be paid by the Borrower
to the Agent pursuant to the provisions of any of   Sections 2.8  ,
  2.9   or   2.17   shall be delivered by the Agent to the
Borrower in connection with each demand made at any time upon the Borrower under
any of such sections. Each such certificate shall set forth the nature of the
occurrence giving rise to such compensation, the additional amount or amounts to
be paid to it hereunder and the method by which such amounts were determined,
which may include any reasonable averaging and attribution methods. Each such
certificate shall absent manifest error, be deemed true and correct evidence of
the additional amount required to be paid by the Borrower to the Agent. A claim
by the Agent for all or any part of any additional amount required to be paid by
the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of any of   Sections 2.8  ,
  2.9   or   2.17   may be made before and/or after the end
of the Interest Period to which such claim relates or during which such claim
has arisen and before and/or after any repayment or prepayment of any amount
owed hereunder to which such claim relates.   

Section 2.11    Subordination of Class B Notes;
Pro Rata Treatment of Notes of Same Class .    

(a)     Each Class B Lender agrees that all amounts to
become due to the Class B Lenders pursuant to this Agreement and the other Loan
Documents are subordinated, to the extent set forth in Section 2.18 hereof, to
the amounts owing to the Class A Lenders (each such prior claim, a
  Senior Claim  ), which subordination shall continue until the
holder of such Senior Claim (a   Senior Claimant  ), or the Agent
on its behalf, has received the full cash amount of such Senior Claim. Each
Class B Lender is also obligated to hold for the benefit of the Senior Claimant
any amounts received by such Class B Lender which, under the terms of this
Agreement, should have been paid to or on behalf of the Senior Claimant and to
pay over such amounts to the Agent for application as provided in Section 2.18
hereof. If any Senior Claimant receives any payment in respect of any Senior
Claim which is subsequently invalidated, declared preferential, set aside and/or
required to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or other party, then, to the extent
such payment is so invalidated, declared preferential, set aside and/or required
to be repaid, such Senior Claim shall be revived and continue in full force and
effect, and shall be entitled to the benefits of this Section 2.11(a), all as if
such payment had not been received.   

(b)     Except as expressly set forth herein, principal and
interest payments and amounts received in payment of the Class A Notes for any
reason and from any source shall be applied  pro rata  among the Class A
Lenders in accordance with the proportion of then unpaid Credit Loans made by
each Class A Lender to the Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balance. Except as
expressly set forth herein, principal and interest payments and amounts received
in payment of the Class B Notes for any reason and from any source shall be
applied  pro rata  among the Class B Lenders in accordance with the
proportion of then unpaid Credit Loans made by each Class B Lender to the
Aggregate Class B Note Principal Balance. All other payments received by the
Agent from, or on behalf of, the Borrower pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement or any other Loan Document (and not otherwise addressed in this
Section 2.11(b)) shall, unless specifically attributable to the Agent or a
Lender or otherwise provided herein, be applied on a  pro rata  basis among
the Lenders based upon the proportion of outstanding Credit Loans of each Lender
to the Aggregate Note Principal Balance.   

Section 2.12    Funding of Credit Loans . 
Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, each Lender
shall be entitled to fund and maintain its funding of all or any part of the
Credit Loan in any manner it sees fit, it being understood, however, that for
purposes of this Agreement, all determinations hereunder shall be made as if
such Lender had actually funded and maintained each Credit Loan made on or
converted to a Eurodollar Rate Basis during the Interest Period for such Credit
Loan through the purchase of deposits having a term corresponding to such
Interest Period and bearing an interest rate equal to the applicable Eurodollar
Rate in the case of a Credit Loan made on a Eurodollar Rate Basis.

Section 2.13    Obligations Several .  The rights and
obligations of each Lender hereunder shall be several and not joint, and no
Lender s obligation to lend shall be affected by any other Lender s
failure to make any Credit Loan.   

Section 2.14    Replacement of an Affected Lender . 
(a) If no Default or Event of Default then exists or is continuing and if (i) as
the result of the application of   Section 2.8  , the obligation of
one or more (but not all) of the Lenders to permit a Credit Loan to be loaned in
a Eurodollar Rate Basis is suspended for more than thirty (30) days, or (ii) as
the result of the application of
  Section 2.9  , one or more (but not all) of Lenders which has caused
the Agent to notify the Borrower of increased capital requirements and the
affected Lender(s) are unable to agree on an adjustment to the compensation
payable to such Lender within the specified 30 day period, or (iii) the Borrower
must make a payment pursuant to   Section 2.17   with respect to such
Lender, then, in each such case, during a period of thirty (30) days thereafter,
the Borrower, by notice to the Agent, may elect to cause such affected Lender to
assign its interest hereunder and in its Credit Loans to one or more of the
other Lenders (if any such Lender so desires to accept such an assignment), or
to another financial institution selected by the Borrower and acceptable to the
Agent, any such assignment to be effected in accordance with   Section
16  . Any Lender replaced pursuant to the provisions of this Section
2.14(a) must receive payment from the Assignee of an amount equal to the
outstanding principal of its Credit Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued
fees and all other amounts (including Funding Losses, if any) payable to it
hereunder and under the other Loan Documents.   

(b)     In the event any Lender does not consent (or fails
to respond) to a proposed amendment, modification or waiver to any provision of
this Agreement or any other Loan Document requested by the Borrower (including,
without limitation, any proposed amendment, modification or waiver with respect
to the matters set forth in Section 20 of this Agreement), the Borrower may, at
its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Agent, require
such Lender to transfer and assign, without recourse (in accordance with and
subject to the restrictions contained in Section 16(b)), all of its interests,
rights and obligations under this Loan Agreement to an Assignee that shall
assume such assigned obligations (which Assignee may be another Lender, if a
Lender accepts such assignment); provided that: (i) such replaced Lender
shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of
its Credit Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts
(including Funding Losses, if any) payable to it hereunder and under the other
Loan Documents from the Assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal
and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other
amounts), and (ii) such assignment does not conflict with Applicable Law.

Section 2.15    Form and Terms of Payment .  All
payments made by the Borrower hereunder in respect of the Credit Loan, including
principal, interest, Funding Losses, and any other obligations of the Borrower,
shall be made to the Agent in accordance with the instructions set forth on
 Schedule 4  hereto or such other account as the Agent shall specify.
Promptly upon receipt of each such payment, the Agent shall distribute all such
amounts to the appropriate Lenders. All payments shall be made in immediately
available and freely transferable funds. Any payment due hereunder or under any
other Loan Document that falls due on a day that is not a Business Day shall be
rescheduled to the next succeeding Business Day and interest and fees shall
continue to accrue to such next succeeding Business Day, unless with respect to
a loan on a Eurodollar Rate Basis such Business Day falls in another calendar
month, in which case the date for such payment shall be the immediately
preceding Business Day.   

Section 2.16    Funding Losses .  The Borrower shall
compensate the Lenders, upon request (which request shall set forth in
reasonable detail the basis for requesting such amounts), for all losses,
expenses and liabilities (including any swap breakage costs, loss or cost
(including interest paid) in liquidating or employing deposits required to fund
or maintain a Credit Loan on a Eurodollar Rate Basis and any interest paid by
the Lenders to lenders of funds borrowed by them to make or carry a Credit Loan
on a Eurodollar Rate Basis) which the Lenders may sustain: (a) if for any reason
a Credit Loan does not occur on a date specified therefor in a Borrowing Notice
due to an act of omission of the Borrower; (b) if any repayment (including
repayments following acceleration of the Obligations due to an Event of Default)
or continuation of any Credit Loan occurs for any reason on a date which is not
the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto; (c) if any prepayment of
any Credit Loan is not made on any date specified in a notice of prepayment
given by the Borrower; or (d) as a consequence of any failure by the Borrower to
repay a Credit Loan when required by the terms of this Agreement or the Notes
(collectively,  Funding Losses ). The Borrower shall pay such amount upon
presentation by the affected Lenders of a certificate pursuant to   Section
2.10   setting forth the amount and such calculation thereof pursuant
hereto.   

Section 2.17    Payments Free and Clear of Taxes . 

(a)     All payments of principal, interest, fees and other
amounts under this Agreement, the Notes or any other Loan Document or otherwise
paid or payable to Agent (as used in this   Section 2.17  ,
 Payments ) shall be made free and clear of, and without deduction by
reason of, Taxes, all of which shall be paid by the Borrower for its own account
not later than the date when due. If the Borrower is required by law or
regulation to deduct or withhold any Taxes from any Payment, it shall: (a) make
such deduction or withholding; (b) pay the amount so deducted or withheld to the
appropriate taxing authority not later than the date when due; (c) deliver to
Agent, promptly and in any event within fifteen (15) days after the date on
which such Taxes become due, original tax receipts and other evidence
satisfactory to Agent of the payment when due of the full amount of such Taxes;
and (d) pay to Agent or the affected Lender forthwith upon any request by Agent
therefor from time to time, such additional amounts as may be necessary so that
each Lender receives, free and clear of all Taxes, the full amount of such
Payment stated to be due under this Agreement, the Notes or any other Loan
Document as if no such deduction or withholding had been made. The Borrower
agrees to indemnify each Lender and the Agent for the full amount of Taxes paid
by such Lender or the Agent, as the case may be, and any liability (including
penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto
(except for Taxes on the overall net income of such Lender or the Agent or any
franchise Taxes in lieu thereof) without duplication of any amounts paid by the
Borrower pursuant to   Section 2.9(a)  .   

(b)     From time to time, if requested in writing by the
Borrower or the Agent, each Lender listed on the signature pages hereof, and on
or prior to the date on which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other
Lender, organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States
(but only so long as such Lender remains lawfully able to do so), shall provide
the Borrower and the Agent with (i) United States Internal Revenue Service
( IRS ) Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI or any successor form prescribed by the IRS,
certifying that such Lender is entitled to benefits under an income tax treaty
to which the United States is a party which reduces the rate of withholding tax
on payments of interest or certifying that the income receivable pursuant to
this Agreement is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business
in the United States, and (ii) any other form or certificate required by any
taxing authority (including any certificate required by Sections 871(h) and
881(c) of the Code), certifying that such Lender is entitled to an exemption
from or a reduced rate of tax on payments pursuant to this Agreement or any of
the other Loan Documents.   

(c)     For any period with respect to which a Lender has
failed to provide the Borrower and the Agent with the appropriate form pursuant
to   Section 2.17(b)   (unless such failure is due to a change in
treaty, law, or regulation occurring subsequent to the date on which a form
originally was required to be provided), such Lender shall not be entitled to
any  gross-up  of Taxes or indemnification under   Section
2.17(a)   with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States; provided,
however, that should a Lender, which is otherwise exempt from or subject to a
reduced rate of withholding tax, become subject to Taxes because of its failure
to deliver a form required hereunder, the Borrower shall take such steps as such
Lender shall reasonably request to assist such Lender to recover such Taxes.

Section 2.18    Trust Account .    

(a)     On or prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower
established the Trust Account with a bank acceptable to the Agent and the
Majority Lenders, which account shall be under the  control  (as
defined in the UCC) of the Agent for the benefit of the Lenders. The Borrower
has caused and shall cause the Servicer to deposit in the Trust Account all
Gross Lease Revenue at the times required pursuant to the terms of the Servicing
Agreement. The Borrower has not established and shall not establish any
additional accounts or change the location of the Trust Account without the
prior written consent of the Agent in each instance.   

(b)     On each Payment Date, the Agent, based on the
Servicer Report, shall distribute an amount equal to the sum of (1) all Gross
Lease Revenue deposited into the Trust Account during the related Collection
Period, (2) all payments received by the Borrower since the immediately
preceding Payment Date pursuant to all Interest Rate Hedge Agreements then in
effect, (3) any Servicer Advances funded with respect to such Payment Date, (4)
all amounts transferred from the Restricted Cash Account in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement, (5) any capital contributions received by the Borrower
during the related Collection Period, and (6) any earnings on investments in the
Trust Account credited during the related Collection Period (the sum of (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5) and (6), the   Distributable Cash Flow  ), to
the following Persons in the following order of priority, with no payment being
made toward any item unless and until all prior items have been fully satisfied:

(I)     On each Payment Date, if neither an
Early Amortization Event nor an Event of Default shall have occurred and then be
continuing:   

(i) to the Agent, the Agent Fee then due and payable;

(ii) at any time that Interpool Containers (or an Affiliate) is not the
Servicer, to such replacement Servicer or to such other Person(s) as the
Servicer shall direct, any unpaid Direct Operating Expenses incurred with
respect to the Containers and not reimbursed by the applicable Lessee; provided,
however, that, the aggregate amount payable pursuant to this clause (ii) on any
Payment Date shall not exceed an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the
aggregate amount of all Gross Lease Revenues deposited into the Trust Account
during the immediately preceding Collection Period;

(iii) to the Servicer by wire transfer of immediately available funds, an amount
equal to the sum of (x) Servicing Fee Arrearage, (y) Servicing Fee and (z)
Disposition Fee;

(iv) to the Servicer, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in
reimbursement of any unpaid Servicer Advances pursuant to the terms of the
Servicing Agreement;

(v) to the Persons entitled thereto, any Borrower Expenses then due and payable,
provided, that the aggregate amount paid pursuant to this clause (v) in any
calendar year shall not exceed $100,000 in the aggregate;

(vi) to each Interest Rate Hedge Provider, any scheduled payments (other than
termination or breakage payments) owing by the Borrower pursuant to all Interest
Rate Hedge Agreements then in effect;

(vii) to each Class A Lender, on a pro rata basis, by wire transfer of
immediately available funds (to the account that the Class A Lender has
designated to the Agent in writing on or prior to the Business Day immediately
preceding such Payment Date), an amount equal to the sum of (x) the Class A Note
Interest Payment for such Payment Date and any unpaid Class A Note Interest
Payments from all prior Payment Dates and (y) any Commitment Fees for such
Payment Date and any unpaid Commitment Fees from all prior Payment Dates;

(viii) on a  pari passu  basis: (A) to each Class A Lender, on a pro rata
basis, by wire transfer of immediately available funds (to the account that the
Class A Lender has designated to the Agent in writing on or prior to the
Business Day immediately preceding such Payment Date), one of the following
amounts:

(1)  
 
so long as the Revolving Credit Period is continuing, the Class A Asset Base
Deficiency (if any);

(2)  
 
if the Revolving Credit Period has terminated, the Class A Scheduled Principal
Payment for such Payment Date;

and (B) to each Interest Rate Hedge Provider, all termination and other amounts
then payable by the Borrower under all Interest Rate Hedge Agreements then in
effect (to the extent not paid pursuant to clause (vi) above);

(ix) to the Restricted Cash Account, the amount necessary to make the balance on
deposit therein equal to the Restricted Cash Amount;

(x) to each Class B Lender, on a pro rata basis, by wire transfer of immediately
available funds (to the account that the Class B Lender has designated to the
Agent in writing on or prior to the Business Day immediately preceding such
Payment Date), an amount equal to the Class B Note Interest Payment for such
Payment Date and any unpaid Class B Note Interest Payments from all prior
Payment Dates;

(xi) to each Class B Lender, on a pro rata basis, by wire transfer of
immediately available funds (to the account that the Class B Lender has
designated to the Agent in writing on or prior to the Business Day immediately
preceding such Payment Date), an amount equal to the Class B Scheduled Principal
Payment for such Payment Date;

(xii) to each Class A Lender, on a pro rata basis, all other amounts payable to
such Class A Lender pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (including any
expense, reimburse and indemnification payments owing by the Borrower amounts
payable pursuant to Sections 2.8, 2.9, 2.16, 2.17 and 14 hereof) or any other
Loan Documents;

(xiii) to each Class B Lender, on a pro rata basis, all other amounts payable to
such Class B Lender pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (including any
expense, reimburse and indemnification payments owing by the Borrower amounts
payable pursuant to Sections 2.8, 2.9, 2.16, 2.17 and 14 hereof) or any other
Loan Documents;

(xiv) any expense, reimbursement and indemnification payments owed by the
Borrower to its officers and directors pursuant to the terms of this Agreement
or any other Loan Document;

(xv) to the Servicer, any expense, reimbursement and indemnification payments
owing by the Borrower to the Servicer pursuant to the terms of the Servicing
Agreement; and

(xvi) any Distributable Cash Flow remaining after all of the payments referred
to in clauses (i) through (xv) above have been paid in full shall be paid to the
Borrower or its designee.

(II)     On each Payment Date, if an
Early Amortization Event shall have occurred and then be continuing but no Event
of Default has occurred and is continuing:   

(i) to the Agent, any Agent Fee then due and payable;

(ii) at any time that Interpool Containers (or an Affiliate) is not the
Servicer, to such replacement Servicer or to such other Person(s) as the
Servicer shall direct, any unpaid Direct Operating Expenses incurred with
respect to the Container and not reimbursed by the applicable Lessee; provided,
however, that, the aggregate amount payable pursuant to this clause (ii) on any
Payment Date shall not exceed an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the
aggregate amount of all Gross Lease Revenues deposited into the Trust Account
during the immediately preceding Collection Period;

(iii) to the Servicer by wire transfer of immediately available funds, an amount
equal to the sum of (x) Servicing Fee Arrearage, (y) Servicing Fee and (z)
Disposition Fee;

(iv) to the Servicer, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in
reimbursement of any unpaid Servicer Advances pursuant to the terms of the
Servicing Agreement;

(v) to the Persons entitled thereto, any Borrower Expenses then due and payable,
provided, that the aggregate amount paid pursuant to this clause (v) in any
calendar year shall not exceed $100,000 in the aggregate;

(vi) to each Interest Rate Hedge Provider, any scheduled payments (other than
termination or breakage payments) owing by the Borrower pursuant to all Interest
Rate Hedge Agreements then in effect;

(vii) to each Class A Lender, on a pro rata basis, by wire transfer of
immediately available funds (to the account that the Class A Lender has
designated to the Agent in writing on or prior to the Business Day immediately
preceding such Payment Date), an amount equal to the sum of (x) the Class A Note
Interest Payment for such Payment Date and any unpaid Class A Note Interest
Payments from all prior Payment Dates and (y) any Commitment Fees for such
Payment Date and any unpaid Commitment Fees from all prior Payment Dates;

(viii) on a  pari passu  basis, (A) to the Class A Lenders, on a pro rata
basis, the remaining Distributable Cash Flow as a principal payment on the Class
A Notes until the Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balance has been repaid in
full;  provided, however , that if only a Designated Early Amortization
Event is then continuing, then the amount payable pursuant to this clause (A)
shall be limited to the sum of (x) the Class A Scheduled Principal Payment for
such Payment Date and (y) the Designated Early Amortization Amount; and (B) to
each Interest Rate Hedge Provider, all termination and other amounts then
payable by the Borrower under all Interest Rate Hedge Agreements then in effect
(to the extent not paid pursuant to clause (vi) above);

(ix) to each Class B Lender, on a pro rata basis, by wire transfer of
immediately available funds (to the account that the Class B Lender has
designated to the Agent in writing on or prior to the Business Day immediately
preceding such Payment Date), an amount equal to the Class B Note Interest
Payment for such Payment Date and any unpaid Class B Note Interest Payments from
all prior Payment Dates;

(x) to each Class B Lender, on a pro rata basis, the remaining Distributable
Cash Flow as a principal payment on the Class B Notes until the Aggregate Class
B Note Principal Balance has been repaid in full;

(xi) to each Class A Lender, on a pro rata basis, all other amounts payable to
such Class A Lender pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (including any
expense, reimburse and indemnification payments owing by the Borrower amounts
payable pursuant to Sections 2.8, 2.9, 2.16, 2.17 and 14 hereof) or any other
Loan Documents;

(xii) to each Class B Lender, on a pro rata basis, all other amounts payable to
such Class B Lender pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (including any
expense, reimburse and indemnification payments owing by the Borrower amounts
payable pursuant to Sections 2.8, 2.9, 2.16, 2.17 and 14 hereof) or any other
Loan Documents;

(xiii) any expense, reimbursement and indemnification payments owed by the
Borrower to its officers and directors pursuant to the terms of this Agreement
or any other Loan Document;

(xiv) to the Servicer, any expense, reimbursement and indemnification payments
owing by the Borrower to the Servicer pursuant to the terms of the Servicing
Agreement; and

(xv) to the Borrower or its designee, any remaining Distributable Cash Flow.

(III)     On each Payment Date, if an
Event of Default shall have occurred and then be continuing:   

(i) to the Agent, any Agent Fee then due and payable;

(ii) at any time that Interpool Containers (or an Affiliate) is not the
Servicer, to such replacement Servicer or to such other Person(s) as the
Servicer shall direct, any unpaid Direct Operating Expenses incurred with
respect to the Container and not reimbursed by the applicable Lessee; provided,
however, that, the aggregate amount payable pursuant to this clause (ii) on any
Payment Date shall not exceed an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the
aggregate amount of all Gross Lease Revenues deposited into the Trust Account
during the immediately preceding Collection Period;

(iii) to the Servicer by wire transfer of immediately available funds, an amount
equal to the sum of (x) Servicing Fee Arrearage, (y) Servicing Fee and (z)
Disposition Fee;

(iv) to the Servicer, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in
reimbursement of any unpaid Servicer Advances pursuant to the terms of the
Servicing Agreement;

(v) to the Persons entitled thereto, any Borrower Expenses then due and payable,
provided, that the aggregate amount paid pursuant to this clause (v) in any
calendar year shall not exceed $100,000 in the aggregate;

(vi) to each Interest Rate Hedge Provider, any payments (other than termination
or breakage payments) owing by the Borrower pursuant to all Interest Rate Hedge
Agreements then in effect;

(vii) to each Class A Lender, on a pro rata basis, by wire transfer of
immediately available funds (to the account that the Class A Lender has
designated to the Agent in writing on or prior to the Business Day immediately
preceding such Payment Date), an amount equal to the sum of (x) the Class A Note
Interest Payment for such Payment Date and any unpaid Class A Note Interest
Payments from all prior Payment Dates and (y) any Commitment Fees for such
Payment Date and any unpaid Commitment Fees from all prior Payment Dates;

(viii) on a  pari passu  basis, (A) to the Class A Lenders, on a pro rata
basis, the remaining Distributable Cash Flow as a principal payment on the Class
A Notes until the Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balance has been repaid in
full; and (B) to each Interest Rate Hedge Provider, all termination and other
amounts then payable by the Borrower under all Interest Rate Hedge Agreements
then in effect (to the extent not paid pursuant to clause (vi) above);

(ix) to each Class B Lender, on a pro rata basis, by wire transfer of
immediately available funds (to the account that the Class B Lender has
designated to the Agent in writing on or prior to the Business Day immediately
preceding such Payment Date), an amount equal to the Class B Note Interest
Payment for such Payment Date and any unpaid Class B Note Interest Payments from
all prior Payment Dates;

(x) to the Class B Lenders, on a pro rata basis, the remaining Distributable
Cash Flow as a principal payment on the Class B Notes until the Aggregate Class
B Note Principal Balance has been paid in full;

(xi) to each Class A Lender, on a pro rata basis, all other amounts payable to
such Class A Lender pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (including any
expense, reimburse and indemnification payments owing by the Borrower amounts
payable pursuant to Sections 2.8, 2.9, 2.16, 2.17 and 14 hereof) or any other
Loan Documents;

(xii) to each Class B Lender, on a pro rata basis, all other amounts payable to
such Class B Lender pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (including any
expense, reimburse and indemnification payments owing by the Borrower amounts
payable pursuant to Sections 2.8, 2.9, 2.16, 2.17 and 14 hereof) or any other
Loan Documents;

(xiii) any expense, reimbursement and indemnification payments owed by the
Borrower to its officers and directors pursuant to the terms of this Agreement
or any other Loan Document;

(xiv) to the Servicer, any expense, reimbursement and indemnification payments
owing by the Borrower to the Servicer pursuant to the terms of the Servicing
Agreement; and

(xv) to the Borrower or its designee, any remaining Distributable Cash Flow.

If the amounts to be distributed on any Payment Date are not
sufficient to make payment in full to the Lenders with respect to any of the
clauses described in Section 2.18(b) above, then payments to Lenders pursuant to
any such clause will be allocated among such Lenders on a  pro   rata
basis  based on the amount payable to each such Lender pursuant to each such
clause.   

Section 2.19    Restricted Cash Account .    

(a)     The Agent shall establish and maintain in its name
an account which shall be designated the restricted cash account (the
 Restricted Cash Account ) and which shall be held by the Agent for
the benefit of itself and the Lenders pursuant to this Agreement. The Restricted
Cash Account shall be under the  control  (as defined in the UCC) of
the Agent for the benefit of the Lenders. Any and all moneys remitted by the
Borrower, or the Servicer on its behalf, to the Restricted Cash Account from the
Trust Account, together with any Eligible Investments in which such moneys are
or will be invested or reinvested, shall be held in the Restricted Cash Account.
No amounts shall be required to be deposited in the Restricted Cash Account on
the Closing Date. Thereafter, amounts shall be deposited into the Restricted
Cash Account in accordance with Section 2.18(b) hereof. Any and all moneys
remitted by the Agent to the Restricted Cash Account shall be invested in
Eligible Investments in accordance with this Agreement and shall be distributed
in accordance with this Section 2.19.   

(b)     On each Determination Date, the Agent shall, in
accordance with the Servicer Report, withdraw from the Restricted Cash Account
and remit to the Class A Lenders an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (A)
the aggregate Class A Note Interest Payment payable on such Payment Date, over
(B) amounts then on deposit in the Trust Account (determined after giving effect
to all other deposits to the Trust Account on or prior to such Determination
Date) and available for the payment of such Class A Note Interest Payment in
accordance with the priority of payments set forth in Section 2.18.   

(c)     On each Payment Date, the Agent shall apply and
deposit in the Trust Account for distribution in accordance with Section 2.18(b)
of this Agreement, the excess, if any, of (A) amounts then on deposit in the
Restricted Cash Account (after giving effect to any withdrawals therefrom on
such Payment Date) over (B) the Restricted Cash Amount for such Payment Date.

(d)     On earliest to occur of (i) the Payment Date on
which the Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balance has been reduced to zero and
the Commitments of all of the Class A Lenders has been terminated, (ii) the date
on which an Early Amortization Event occurs, (iii) the date on which an Event of
Default occurs and (iv) the Final Maturity Date, any remaining funds in the
Restricted Cash Account shall be deposited in the Trust Account and, be
distributed in accordance with Section 2.18(b) of this Agreement.   

Section 2.20    Investments .  The Agent may, at its election, invest any cash deposited in
the Trust Account and Restricted Cash Account in Eligible Investments. Each Eligible
Investment (including reinvestment of the income and proceeds of Eligible Investments)
shall, if uncertificated, be registered in the name of the Agent for the benefit of the
Lenders or if certificated be delivered to the Agent, and be held to its maturity and
shall mature not later than the Business Day immediately preceding the next succeeding
Payment Date. Any earnings on Eligible Investments in the Trust Account and Restricted
Cash Account shall be retained in each such account and be distributed in accordance with
the terms of this Agreement.   

Section 2.21    Purchase of Class A Notes .    

(a)     If either an Early Amortization Event or Event of
Default shall have occurred and then be continuing, any Class B Lender may elect
to purchase all (but not less than all) of the then unpaid Class A Notes then
outstanding, by delivery to the Agent, within thirty (30) days after the notice
referred to in Section 2.21(b) has been given, for deposit into the Trust
Account of an amount equal to the sum of (i) the then unpaid principal balance
of all such Class A Notes, (ii) all accrued but unpaid interest at the interest
rate(s) in effect at that time on the amounts set forth in clause (i), (iii) all
other unpaid outstanding obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Documents
owing to the Class A Lenders and (iv) if such purchase is not made on the last
day of an Interest Period, any Funding Losses resulting from such purchase;
provided, however, that no premium, penalty or other similar amount shall be
payable in connection with such purchase.   

(b)     Notice of the exercise of the purchase option
described in Section 2.21(b) shall be given by the related Class B Lender to
each of the Borrower and the Servicer by not later than the Determination Date
prior to the date on which such purchase is to be made. Upon receipt of such
notice, the Agent shall promptly provide each Class A Lender with notice of the
exercise of such purchase option and the Payment Date on which such option shall
be exercised.   

SECTION 3.  
  REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES . 

Each of the Parent Guarantor and the Borrower, severally as to itself,
represents to the Agent and each of the Lenders that as of the Closing Date and
each subsequent Funding Date:   

Section 3.1      Corporate Existence and Good
Standing, Etc .    

(a)     It and its respective Subsidiaries are Corporations
validly organized and existing and in good standing under the laws of the
jurisdictions in which they are organized, and each has the requisite
organizational power to own its property and conduct its business as presently
conducted by it; and   

(b)     In all jurisdictions where it or any of its
Subsidiaries owns real property or maintains plants or warehouses, it is either
qualified to do business and in good standing or such qualification can readily
be obtained without substantial penalty; and the failure to qualify in
jurisdictions where the Parent Guarantor or any Subsidiary have not done so will
have no Materially Adverse Effect.   

Section 3.2      Corporate Power; Consents;
Absence of Conflict with Other Agreements, Etc .    

(a)     The execution, delivery and performance of the Loan
Documents by it and the borrowings and transactions contemplated hereby and
thereby:   

(i) are within their respective organization powers and have been duly
authorized by all necessary organization action;

(ii) do not require any approval or consent of, or filing with, any governmental
agency or authority, and do not and will not contravene any provision of Law or
the terms of their respective charter documents or bylaws or any amendment
thereof; and

(iii) will not conflict with or result in any material breach or contravention
of or default under, or the creation of any Lien under, any indenture,
agreement, lease, instrument or undertaking to which the Borrower or the Parent
Guarantor is a party or by which any of them or any of their properties are
bound.

(b)     Each of the Loan Documents executed by it is, and
will be, a valid and legally binding obligation of the Borrower or the Parent
Guarantor, as the case may be, enforceable in accordance with their respective
terms.   

(c)     This Agreement and the other Loan Documents have
been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor, as
the case may be.   

Section 3.3      Title to Properties .  The
Parent Guarantor and each of its Subsidiaries own all of its respective assets
reflected as such in the consolidated balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and
its Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2004. Neither the Parent Guarantor nor the
Borrower is insolvent (as defined in Section 101 (29) of Title 11 of the United
States Code or any other applicable Insolvency Law) and will not be rendered so
insolvent as a result of the transactions contemplated hereby or referred to
herein.   

Section 3.4      Financial Statements .  The
Agent and the Lenders have been furnished with (i) the 2004 Form 10-K and the
Parent Guarantor s Consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2004, and
its consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for the
fiscal year then ended, and related footnotes, audited by KPMG LLP and (ii) the
Form 10-Q of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of, and
for the nine months ended, September 30, 2005. Such financial statements have
been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout
the periods specified and present fairly the financial positions of the Parent
Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as of such date and the results of their
respective operations for the year then ended. There are no liabilities,
contingent or otherwise, known to the Parent Guarantor, not disclosed in such
financial statements or footnotes that involve a material amount.   

Section 3.5      No Material Changes, Etc . 
There have occurred no changes in the condition (financial or otherwise),
operations, assets, income, or business of the Parent Guarantor and its
Subsidiaries as shown on or reflected in the 2004 Form 10-K and the Consolidated
balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as of December 31,
2004, or the Consolidated statements of income and cash flows for the fiscal
year then ended, the effect of which, individually or in the aggregate, could
reasonably be expected to have a Materially Adverse Effect on the Parent
Guarantor and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.   

Section 3.6      Litigation .  Except for
those matters disclosed in the financial statements provided to the Agent under
Section 6.4 hereof, there are no actions, suits, proceedings or investigations
of any kind pending or, to its knowledge, threatened, against it or any of its
Subsidiaries before any court, tribunal or administrative agency or board which,
if determined adversely, could reasonably be expected to, either in any case or
in the aggregate, have a Materially Adverse Effect, or materially impair its
ability to carry on their businesses substantially as now conducted, or result
in any substantial liability not adequately covered by insurance, or which
question the validity of this Agreement, the Notes or any other Loan Document or
any action taken or to be taken pursuant hereto or thereto.   

Section 3.7      No Materially Adverse Contracts,
Etc .  Neither it, nor any of its Subsidiaries, is subject to any charter,
corporate or other legal restriction, or any judgment, decree, order, rule or
regulation which, in the judgment of its officers, has or could reasonably be
expected to have in the future a Materially Adverse Effect.   

Section 3.8      Compliance with Other
Instruments, Laws, Etc .  (a) Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries is
violating any provision of its respective charter documents or bylaws or any
agreement or instrument by which it or any of its properties may be bound or any
decree, order, judgment, or, to the knowledge of its officers, any statute,
license, rule or regulation, in a manner which could result in the imposition of
substantial penalties or which could have a Materially Adverse Effect.

(b)     Each of the Parent Guarantor and the Borrower has
obtained all necessary approvals, consents and licenses from the government of
Barbados in order to make all payments of principal and interest on all of the
Notes.   

Section 3.9      Tax Status .  (a)The Parent
Guarantor and its Subsidiaries (i) other than as set forth in the 2004 Form
10-K, made or filed all Tax returns, reports and declarations required by any
jurisdiction to which any of them are subject, (ii) paid all Taxes and other
governmental assessments and charges that are material in amount and required to
be paid, except those being contested in good faith, by appropriate proceedings
diligently pursued, and (iii) set aside on their books provisions reasonably
adequate for the payment of all Taxes for periods subsequent to the periods to
which such returns, reports or declarations apply. There are no unpaid taxes in
any material amount claimed to be due from the Parent Guarantor or any of its
Subsidiaries by the taxing authority of any jurisdiction, and the officers of
the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor know of no basis for any such claim.

(b)     The Borrower has made all filings necessary in order
to elect pursuant to Section 301.7701-3 of the Code to be either classified as a
partnership or disregarded as an entity separate from Interpool Containers.

Section 3.10    Compliance with ERISA .  To the extent
required, the Parent Guarantor, its Subsidiaries and each member of the
Controlled Group have fulfilled their obligations under the minimum funding
standards of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan and are in compliance
in all material respects with the applicable provision of ERISA and the Code,
and have not incurred any liability to the PBGC or a Plan under Title IV of
ERISA; and no  prohibited transaction  or  reportable event 
(as such terms are defined in ERISA) has occurred with respect to any Plan which
could reasonably be expected to result in material liability for excise taxes.

Section 3.11    Environmental Matters .    

(a)     To the extent required, the Parent Guarantor and its
Subsidiaries have obtained all material permits, licenses and other
authorizations which are required under all Environmental Laws, except to the
extent failure to have any such permit, license or authorization would not have
a Materially Adverse Effect. The Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries are in
compliance in all material respects with the terms and conditions of all such
permits, licenses and authorizations, and are also in compliance in all material
respects with all other limitations, restrictions, conditions, standards,
prohibitions, requirements, obligations, schedules and timetables contained in
any applicable Environmental Law or in any regulation, code, plan, order,
decree, judgment, injunction, notice or demand letter issued, entered,
promulgated or approved thereunder, except to the extent failure to comply would
not have a Material Adverse Effect on the business, financial condition or
operations of the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries.   

(b)     No notice, notification, demand, request for
information, citation, summons or order has been issued, no complaint has been
filed, no penalty has been assessed and no investigation or review is pending
or, to the knowledge of the Parent Guarantor, threatened by any governmental or
other entity with respect to any alleged failure by the Parent Guarantor and its
Subsidiaries to have any permit, license or authorization required in connection
with the conduct of its business or with respect to any Environmental Laws,
including Environmental Laws relating to the generation, treatment, storage,
recycling, transportation, disposal or release of any Hazardous Materials.

(c)     To the best of the Parent Guarantor s
knowledge, no material oral or written notification of a release of a Hazardous
Material has been filed by or on behalf of the Parent Guarantor or its
Subsidiaries and no property now or previously owned, leased or used by the
Borrower is listed or proposed for listing on the National Priorities List under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of
1980, as amended, or on any similar state list of sites requiring investigation
or clean-up.   

(d)     To the best of the Parent Guarantor s
knowledge, there are no Liens or encumbrances arising under or pursuant to any
Environmental Laws on any of the real property or properties owned, leased or
used by the Parent Guarantor or its Subsidiaries other than Liens, if any, that
do not materially detract from the value of the property or materially impair
the use thereof in the operation of the business of the Parent Guarantor and its
Subsidiaries or have a Materially Adverse Effect and no governmental actions
have been taken or are in process which could subject any of such properties to
such Liens or encumbrances or, as a result of which the Parent Guarantor or its
Subsidiaries would be required to place any notice or restriction relating to
the presence of Hazardous Materials at any property owned by it in any deed to
such property.   

(e)     Neither the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries
nor, to the best knowledge of the Parent Guarantor, any previous owner, tenant,
occupant or user of any property owned, leased or used by the Parent Guarantor
and its Subsidiaries has (i) engaged in or permitted any operations or
activities upon or any use or occupancy of such property, or any portion
thereof, for the purpose of or in any way involving the handling, manufacture,
treatment, storage, use, generation, release, discharge, refining, dumping or
disposal (whether legal or illegal, accidental or intentional) of any Hazardous
Materials on, under, in or about such property, except to the extent commonly
used in day-to-day operations of such property and in such case only in
compliance with all Environmental Laws, or (ii) transported any Hazardous
Materials to, from or across such property except to the extent commonly used in
day-to-day operations of such property and, in such case, in compliance in all
material respects with, all Environmental Laws; nor to the best knowledge of the
Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries have any Hazardous Materials migrated from
other properties upon, about or beneath such property, nor, to the best
knowledge of the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, are any Hazardous
Materials presently constructed, deposited, stored or otherwise located on,
under, in or about such property except to the extent commonly used in
day-to-day operations of such property and, in such case, in compliance in all
material respects with, all Environmental Laws.   

Section 3.12    No Default .    

(a)     No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document including, without
limitation, the Parent Guaranty. No Servicer Default has occurred and is
continuing under the Servicing Agreement.   

(b)     Neither the Parent Company nor any of its
Subsidiaries is in default under any Indebtedness.   

Section 3.13    Patents, Copyrights, Permits, Trademarks,
Licenses and Leases .  The Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries each has
rights with respect to all of their respective material patents, trademarks,
permits, service marks, trade names, copyrights and licenses, and shall have
obtained assignments of all leases, necessary for the present conduct of its
business, the absence of which would result in a Materially Adverse Effect.

Section 3.14    Use of Proceeds .  The Borrower will
use proceeds of the Credit Loans made hereunder only as follows: (i) in the case
of the initial Credit Loan to be made on the Closing Date, in accordance with
the statement of sources and uses provided on the Closing Date, (ii) to
refinance existing indebtedness, (iii) to purchase additional Eligible
Containers and/or Eligible Leases and (iv) for other corporate purposes. The
Borrower is the ultimate beneficiary of this Agreement and the Credit Loan to be
received hereunder. No portion of any Credit Loan is to be used, for the
 purpose of purchasing or carrying  any  margin stock  as
such terms are used in Regulations U and X of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System, as amended and the Borrower is not engaged in the
business of extending credit to others for such purpose.   

Section 3.15    Capitalization .  The Parent Guarantor
owns, directly or indirectly, 100% of the issued and outstanding Voting Stock of
Interpool Limited, free and clear of all liens. Interpool Limited owns
approximately ninety percent (90%) of the issued and outstanding Voting Stock of
Interpool Containers, free and clear of all Liens. The Parent Guarantor owns
that portion of the issued and outstanding Voting Stock of Interpool Containers
not owned by Interpool Limited, free and clear of all Liens. Interpool
Containers owns 100% of the issued and outstanding Voting Stock of the Borrower,
free and clear of all Liens. None of the Parent Guarantor, the Borrower nor
Interpool Containers has issued or granted any options or rights with respect to
the issuance of its Voting Stock or other capital stock which is presently
outstanding.   

Section 3.16    Subsidiaries .  The Borrower has no
Subsidiaries. The Parent Guarantor has no Subsidiaries other than the Borrower
and the Persons set forth on  Schedule 3.16  hereto. All shares of the
Borrower have been validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable, and no
rights to subscribe to any additional shares have been granted, and no options,
warrants or similar rights are outstanding.   

Section 3.17    Holding Company and Investment Company
Acts .  None of the Borrower nor the Parent Guarantor nor any of its
Subsidiaries is a  holding company  or a  subsidiary
company  of a  holding company  or an  affiliate  of a
 holding company , as such terms are defined in the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935; nor is it a  registered investment
company , or an  affiliated company  or a  principal
underwriter  of a  registered investment company , as such terms
are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.   

Section 3.18    Pension Plans .  The funding by the
Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, of any Guaranteed Pension Plan (as
defined in ERISA) complies with the minimum funding standards of Section 302 of
ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, as amended. The Parent Guarantor and its
Subsidiaries have made all contributions to each Multiemployer Plan (as defined
in ERISA) required pursuant to any applicable collective bargaining agreement.
No material Reportable Event (as defined in ERISA) has occurred with respect to
any Guaranteed Pension Plan; the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries have not
incurred any material liability as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal,
as defined in ERISA, from any Multiemployer Plan; and no steps have been taken
to terminate any Guaranteed Pension Plan.   

Section 3.19    Disclosure .  This Agreement and all
certificates furnished to the Agent and the Lenders by or on behalf of the
Borrower, the Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries to the Agent and the
Lenders in connection herewith do not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements
contained herein and therein not misleading. There is no fact known to any of
the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries which has or is
expected to have a Materially Adverse Effect, except as has been disclosed
previously to the Agent and each Lender in writing.   

Section 3.20    Title to Lease and Container .  With
respect to each Lease and each Container that becomes subject to the lien of the
Security Agreement, the Borrower will have good and valid legal and beneficial
title to, and shall be the lawful owner of, all such Leases and Containers, free
and clear of all Liens whatsoever, except for Permitted Liens.   

Section 3.21    First Lien .  Upon the completion of
the actions specified in  Schedule 1  to the Security Agreement, the
Security Agreement will create a legal, valid and perfected first Lien on and
first priority security interest in all of the Collateral described therein and
any Proceeds thereof, as security for the Obligations, free and clear of all
other Liens whatsoever except Permitted Liens not of record. No security
agreement, financing statement, equivalent security or lien instrument or
continuation statement covering all or any part of the Collateral which has been
signed by the Borrower or which the Borrower has authorized any other Person to
sign or file or record, is on file or of record with any public office, except
such as may have been filed by, or on behalf of, the Borrower in favor of the
Agent pursuant to the Loan Documents.   

Section 3.22    Survival of Representations and Warranties,
Etc .  All statements contained in any certificate delivered by or on
behalf of the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor pursuant to or in connection
with this Agreement or any of the Loan Documents (including any such
representation or warranty made or in connection with any amendment thereto)
shall constitute representations and warranties made under this Agreement. All
representations and warranties made under this Agreement shall survive, and not
be waived by, the execution and delivery of this Agreement or any other Loan
Document, any investigation or inquiry by the Agent or the Lenders, or by making
any Credit Loan under this Agreement.   

Section 3.23    Waiver of Immunity .  To the extent
that the Borrower, Parent Guarantor or any of their respective properties is or
becomes entitled at any time to any immunity on the grounds of sovereignty or
otherwise from any legal actions, suits or proceedings, from set-off or
counterclaim, from the jurisdiction or judgment of any competent court, from
service of process, from execution of a judgment, from attachment prior to
judgment, from attachment in aid of execution, or from execution prior to
judgment, or other legal process in any jurisdiction, each of the Borrower and
the Parent Guarantor, for itself and its successors and assigns and its
property, does hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waive, and agrees not to
plead or claim, any such immunity with respect to its obligations, liabilities
or any other matter under or arising out of or in connection with this
Agreement, and each of the other Loan Documents or the subject matter hereof or
thereof, subject, in each case, to the provisions of each of the Loan Documents
and mandatory requirements of applicable law.   

Section 3.24    Eligible Leases; Eligible Container . 
Each Lease classified as an Eligible Lease and each Container classified as an
Eligible Container on each Asset Base Certificate and Compliance Certificate
delivered pursuant to the terms of this Agreement complies with the definition
of Eligible Lease or Eligible Container, as the case may be, as of the effective
date of each such Asset Base Certificate and Compliance Certificate, as the case
may be.   

Section 3.25    Borrowing for Own Benefit .  The
Borrower confirms that the Credit Loans will be used for the purposes set forth
in Section 3.14 hereof, and the use of such Credit Loans will comply with all
applicable laws, including money laundering laws.   

Section 3.26    Foreign Assets Control Regulations  .
None of the requesting or borrowing of any Credit Loan or the use of the
proceeds of such will violate the Trading With the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C.   1
et seq., as amended) (the  Trading With the Enemy Act ) or any of the
foreign assets control regulations of the United States Treasury Department (31
CFR, Subtitle B, Chapter V, as amended) (the  Foreign Assets Control
Regulations ) or any enabling legislation or executive order relating
thereto (which for the avoidance of doubt shall include, but shall not be
limited to (a) Executive Order 13224 of September 21, 2001 Blocking Property and
Prohibiting Transactions With Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support
Terrorism (66 Fed. Reg. 49079 (2001)) (the  Executive Order ) and (b)
the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to
Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (Public Law 107-56)). Furthermore,
none of the Borrower or its Affiliates (a) is or will become a  blocked
person  as described in the Executive Order, the Trading With the Enemy Act
or the Foreign Assets Control Regulations or (b) engages or will engage in any
dealings or transactions, or be otherwise associated, with any such
 blocked person .   

Section 3.27    Debt for Tax .  Each of the Parent
Guarantor and the Borrower will treat the obligations evidenced by the Class A
Notes and the Class B Notes as indebtedness for purposes of United States
federal income tax purposes.   

Section 3.28    Post Closing Leases .  Except as
indicated on Schedule 6 hereto, the Lessee under each Post Closing Lease has
remitted at least one rental payment to either the Seller or the Servicer.

SECTION 4.  
  CONDITIONS TO CLOSING ON CLOSING DATE . 

The obligation of the Lenders to enter into this Agreement on the Closing Date,
and to issue their respective Commitments, shall be subject to the prior or
simultaneous satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:   

Section 4.1      Request for Funds .  The
Borrower shall have given to the Agent (i) a completed Borrowing Notice,
substantially in the form of  Exhibit C  hereto accompanied by the
attachments specified in the definition thereof, and (ii) a flow of funds
memorandum setting forth the payment instructions with respect to the proceeds
of the Credit Loan.

Section 4.2      Representations and
Warranties .  The representations and warranties of the Borrower, the
Parent Guarantor, the Seller and the Servicer contained in
  Section 3   and the other Loan Documents in connection herewith on or
after the date hereof shall have been materially correct when made and shall be deemed to
be repeated at and as of the Closing Date, and such representations and warranties shall
be materially correct at and as of such Closing Date.   

Section 4.3      Performance; No Default . 
Each of the Borrower, the Seller, the Servicer and the Parent Guarantor shall
have performed and complied in all material respects with all terms and
conditions herein or in the other Loan Documents required to be performed or
complied with by it prior to or at the time of the Closing Date, and the
consummation of the transactions on the Closing Date shall not result in (i) a
Default or an Event of Default, (ii) an Early Amortization Event, (iii) a
Servicer Default or (iv) a Class A Asset Base Deficiency.   

Section 4.4      Delivery of Officer s
Certificate .  The Agent and each of the Lenders shall have received an
Officer s Certificate dated as of the Closing Date, in form and substance
reasonably satisfactory to the Agent, in which the Borrower shall represent and
warrant to the Lenders that the conditions precedent set forth in
  Sections 4.2   and   4.3   were satisfied at and as of the
Closing Date.   

Section 4.5      Legality; Consents .  The
making of the Credit Loan shall not contravene any Law, regulation, decree or
order binding on the Borrower and all necessary consents in connection with the
transactions contemplated in this Agreement and all other Loan Documents and all
instruments incidental hereto and thereto have been obtained and the Agent, on
behalf of each of the Lenders, shall have received all such certified or copies
of all such instruments and documents as the Agent shall have reasonably
requested.   

Section 4.6      Delivery of Loan
Documents .  Each of the Loan Documents shall have been duly and properly
authorized, executed and delivered by the respective parties thereto and shall
be in full force and effect on and as of the Closing Date. Executed original
counterparts of each of the Loan Documents, as executed and delivered by the
respective parties thereto, shall have been delivered to the Agent.   

Section 4.7      Delivery of Charter and Other
Documents .  The Agent, on behalf of the Lenders, shall have received from
each of the Borrower, the Seller, Interpool Limited and the Parent Guarantor
copies, certified by the respective Authorized Officer or assistant secretary of
each to be true and complete as of the Closing Date, of each of (a) its charter
or other incorporation documents as in effect on such date, (b) its by-laws (if
applicable) as in effect on such date, (c) resolutions authorizing its execution
and delivery of each of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, its
performance of all of its agreements and obligations under each of such
documents and the borrowings and other transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, and (d) an incumbency certificate giving the name and bearing a
specimen signature of each individual who shall be authorized to sign, in its
name and on its behalf, each of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, to
make application for the Credit Loan, and to give notices and to take other
action on its behalf under the Loan Documents to which it is a party.

Section 4.8      Opinions of the Borrower s,
Parent Guarantor s, Servicer s and Interpool Limited s
Counsel .  The Agent and the Lenders, shall have received from Moore  
Van Allen PLLC, U.S. counsel to the Borrower, Oldco, the Seller, the Servicer,
Interpool Limited and the Parent Guarantor, a favorable opinion, substantially
in the form of   Exhibit E  , from Lex Caribbean, Barbados counsel to
the Borrower, Oldco, the Seller, the Servicer and the Parent Guarantor, a
favorable opinion, substantially in the form of   Exhibit F  , each
opinion addressed to the Agent and the Lenders and dated the Closing Date. Such
opinion letters shall also state that (i) the Borrower is not an entity taxable
as a corporation under U.S. federal tax law, and (ii) in the event of the
bankruptcy of any of the Seller, the Servicer, or the Parent Guarantor under
either the United States Bankruptcy Code or The Companies Act of Barbados, (A)
the Borrower will not be  substantively consolidated  with any of the
Seller, the Servicer or the Parent Guarantor and (B) the transfer of the Leases
and Substitute Leases and Containers and Substitute Containers by the Seller to
the Borrower on each Transfer Date pursuant to the terms of the Contribution and
Sale Agreement will not be recharacterized as a loan secured by such equipment
and leases.   

Section 4.9      Security Documents . 
Subject only to the execution of this Agreement, the application or delivery of
the proceeds of the Credit Loan hereunder, and the release of a Lien to be
discharged with the proceeds of the Credit Loan, the Security Documents and the
UCC Financing Statements and other documents in respect thereto (or amendments
to existing filings) as necessary to enable the Agent to perfect a legal, valid
and enforceable first-priority security interest in all of the Collateral, shall
have been duly executed by the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor, as the case
may be, and duly filed or recorded, as applicable, in all appropriate fling
offices or other locations necessary for the perfection of such security
interests, subject only to Permitted Liens not of record, and all other actions
necessary for the perfection of such interests shall have been completed to the
satisfaction of the Agent and its counsel.   

Section 4.10    Proceedings and Documents .  All
proceedings in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
and all documents incident thereto shall be reasonably satisfactory in substance
and in form to the Lenders and the Agent and the Agent s special counsel,
and the Agent, on behalf of the Lenders, and such counsel shall have received
all information and such counterpart originals or certified or other copies of
such documents as the Lenders, the Agent or such counsel may reasonably request.

Section 4.11    Compliance Certificate .  The Agent
and each of the Lenders shall have received a Certificate, substantially in the
form of  Exhibit H  (a  Compliance Certificate ), duly executed by an
Authorized Officer of the Borrower.   

Section 4.12    No Material Adverse Changes,
Etc .  No event shall have occurred or shall result after giving effect to
the funding contemplated hereunder that may cause a Materially Adverse Effect.
There shall not have occurred any material adverse change, including in
governmental regulations, and other Laws or policies, affecting any of the
Parent Guarantor, the Servicer or the Borrower.   

Section 4.13    Evidence of Insurance .  Evidence of
insurance maintained by, or on behalf of, the Borrower evidencing compliance
with the requirements of   Section 6.8  , and naming the Agent, on
behalf of the Lenders, as loss payee (with respect to casualty insurance) and
the Agent and each Lender as an additional insured (with respect to liability
insurance), and stating that such insurance shall not be canceled or revised
without at least 30 days  prior written notice by the insurer to the Agent.

Section 4.14    Litigation .  There shall be no
actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to either the Parent Guarantor s
or its Subsidiaries  knowledge, threatened against either the Parent
Guarantor or its Subsidiaries or which could be reasonably be expected to have a
Materially Adverse Effect, except for those actions, suits or proceedings that
are disclosed in the 2004 Form 10K and the Form 10-Q of the Parent Guarantor and
its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of, and for the nine months ended, September
30, 2005.   

Section 4.15    Fees .  The Borrower shall have paid
the fee referred to in   Section 2.6  .   

Section 4.16    No Defaults; Absence of Material Adverse
Change .  (a) No Default, Event of Default, Early Amortization Event,
Guarantor Event of Default or Servicer Default shall have occurred and then be
continuing or would result from the execution and delivery of the Loan
Documents.   

(b)     No material and adverse change in the financial
condition or business prospects of any of the Parent Guarantor, the Borrower or
any of their respective Subsidiaries shall have occurred.   

Section 4.17    Lockbox Agreement and Intercreditor
Agreement .  The Agent shall have received executed versions of the
Intercreditor Agreement and the Intercreditor Joinder Agreements.   

Section 4.18    Availability of Funding .  No event or
condition shall exist which, in the reasonable opinion of the Agent or any
Lender, makes it illegal or impractical for any Lender to enter into commitments
or Credit Loans denominated in Dollars or to purchase Dollar denominated
commitments reasonably necessary to make or maintain its commitments herein.

Section 4.19   [Reserved]    

Section 4.20    Officer Certificate .  A certificate,
dated the Closing Date, signed by an Authorized Officer of each of the Parent
Guarantor and the Borrower to the effect that the Borrower has good title to the
Collateral, free and clear of all Liens other than Permitted Liens not of
record.   

Section 4.21    Eligible Leases .  On or prior to the
Closing Date, the Agent, on behalf of the Lender, shall have received (i) the
original counterpart of each Lease (other than the Post Closing Leases and the
Stamping Leases and the Leases set forth on schedule 4.21) included in the
calculation of the Maximum Asset Base that constitutes  chattel
paper , and (ii) a photocopy of the original counterpart of each Stamping
Lease marked with the legend set forth in Section 4.8 of the Security Agreement.

Section 4.22    Solvency Certificate .  The chief
financial officer or acting chief financial officer of each of the Parent
Guarantor, Interpool Containers, Interpool Limited and the Borrower, dated the
Closing Date, shall have delivered to the Agent a certificate certifying as to
the solvency of each such entity.   

Section 4.23    CAI Notice of Assignment .  On or
prior to the Closing Date the Agent shall have received an originally executed
Notice of Assignment from CAI, substantially in the form of  Exhibit D 
hereto.

Section 4.24    Container Management System .  An
officer of the Servicer shall have delivered to the Agent a certificate setting
forth the various software systems used by the Servicer in the operation of its
container management system.   

Section 4.25    Repayment of Indebtedness .  The
Parent Guarantor and the Borrower shall have made arrangements satisfactory to
the Agent and all of the Lenders for the repayment in full of all Indebtedness,
and termination of all funding commitments under, the Third Amended and Restated
Credit Agreement, dated as of March 15, 2005, among Oldco, the Parent Guarantor,
Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V., as agent, and the financial institutions named as
lenders therein.   

Section 4.26    Asset Conveyances .  The Parent Guarantor and
the Borrower shall have provided documentation and other evidence satisfactory
to the Agent and all of the Lenders with respect to each of the following:

(a)     the transfer by Oldco to Interpool Containers of all
of Oldco s assets and the release of all liens on such assets;   

(b)     the transfer by Interpool Limited to Interpool
Containers of substantially all of the container management and servicing assets
(including, without limitation, the employees and management information
systems) of Interpool Limited.   

Section 4.27    Tax Opinion .  The Agent and the Lenders shall
have received a copy of an opinion letter of Akin Gump, in form and substance
satisfactory to each such Person, regarding the United States and Barbados tax
treatment of the repatriation of earnings from Interpool Limited to the Parent
Guarantor.   

SECTION 5.  
  CONDITIONS TO EACH FUNDING DATE . 

The obligations of each Lender to make a Credit Loan on each Funding Date shall
be subject to the satisfaction prior to or at and as of each Funding Date of the
following conditions precedent:   

Section 5.1      
  Representations and Warranties  . Each of the representations and
warranties of the Parent Guarantor, the Servicer and the Borrower contained in
this Agreement, the Loan Documents or in any document or instrument delivered
pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or the Loan Documents shall be
true as of the date as of which they were made and shall also be true at and as
of such Funding Date, with the same effect as if made at and as of that time
(except to the extent of changes resulting from transactions contemplated or
permitted by this Agreement and changes occurring in the ordinary course of
business which singly or in the aggregate shall not have a Materially Adverse
Effect and except to the extent that such representations and warranties relate
expressly to an earlier date).   

Section 5.2         No Default;
Expiration of Revolving Credit Period  . (a) On such Funding Date, there
shall exist no Default, Event of Default, Early Amortization Event, Guarantor
Event of Default or a Servicer Default, nor shall the making of such Funding
result in a Default, Event of Default, Early Amortization Event, Guarantor Event
of Default or a Servicer Default.   

(b)      With respect to
each Credit Loan to be made by a Class A Lender, the Revolving Credit Period
shall not have expired.   

(c)      With respect to
each Credit Loan to be made by a Class B Lender, the Funding Date shall not be
later than December 31, 2005, in aggregate, and there have been not more than
two (2) Credit Loans made by each Class B Lender.   

Section 5.3         Compliance
Certificate  . The Agent shall have received (i) a Borrowing Notice at the
times and in the form required pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof and (ii) a
Certificate, substantially in the form of  Exhibit  H (a  Compliance
Certificate ), duly executed by an Authorized Officer of the Borrower showing
in reasonable detail all of the following: (a) that the Aggregate Class A Note
Principal Balance (after giving effect to the requesting Credit Loan) does not
exceed the Class A Asset Base, and (b) that the Aggregate Note Principal Balance
(after giving effect to the requested Credit Loan) does not exceed the Maximum
Asset Base.   

Section 5.4         Security
Documents  .  Subject only to the release of a Lien to be
discharged with the proceeds of such Credit Loan (for which the Agent shall have
received a payout letter), all actions shall have been taken to enable the Agent
to perfect a legal, valid and enforceable first-priority security interest in
all of the Eligible Leases and/or Eligible Containers to be acquired with the
proceeds of such Credit Loan.   

Section 5.5         Copies of Purchase
Documentation, Invoices, Bills of Sale and Other Title
Documents  .  With respect to any Containers for which the
manufacturer thereof is owed any payment thereon, the Agent shall have received,
at the request of the Agent, (A) copies of purchase documentation, invoices,
conditional bills of sale and/or releases with respect to (i) that portion of
the Eligible Containers for which the Lenders will pay the purchase price
therefore directly to the applicable manufacturer, (B) such other documentation
as the Agent or any Lender may request to establish the then Fair Market Value
and Net Book Value of each such Container, (C) wire transfer directions for each
of the manufacturers of the Containers setting forth the locations to which the
Agent and the Lenders should remit payment of the invoices referred to in clause
(A), and (D) written authorization from the Borrower to remit all or a portion
of the Credit Loan proceeds in satisfaction of the unpaid invoices referred to
in clause (A) above.   

SECTION 6.        AFFIRMATIVE
COVENANTS.    

Each
of the Parent Guarantor and the Borrower (except as expressly noted below)
covenant and agree that, so long as any amounts are owing with respect to the
Notes or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement or the Commitments (or any portion
thereof) remain in effect, the Parent Guarantor and the Borrower shall, and to
the extent applicable, shall cause each of their Subsidiaries to:   

Section 6.1         Punctual
Payment  .  Duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid the
principal and interest on the Notes and all fees and other amounts from time to
time owing hereunder, all in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the
Notes.   

Section 6.2         Location of
Office  .  Maintain its chief executive office and principal
place of business at (A) in the case of the Parent Guarantor, 211 College Road
East, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, and (B) in the case of the Borrower, Worthing
Corporate Center, Worthing Main Road, Christ Church, Barbados, or, in either
case, at such other address as the Borrower shall designate in a notice to the
Agent at least sixty (60) days prior to the effective date of such relocation.

Section 6.3         Records and Accounts;
Collateral Tracking System  .  (a) Keep true consolidated
records and books of account in which full, true and correct entries will be
made in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and maintain
adequate accounts and reserves for all taxes (including income taxes), all
depreciation, depletion, obsolescence and amortization of its properties, all
contingencies, and all other reserves; and (b) maintain computerized systems
capable of tracking the Eligible Leases, Eligible Containers and Gross Lease
Revenues on a per unit basis, enabling the Parent Guarantor, the Servicer and
the Borrower at all times to identify the same by owner and lender/lienholder.

Section 6.4         Financial Statements,
Certificates and Information  .  Furnish to the Agent:

(a)      [Reserved];   

(b)      Commencing with
the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, as soon as practicable and, in any
event, within one hundred twenty (120) days after the end of each subsequent
fiscal year (or, with respect to CAI, upon the request of the Agent, but only so
long as CAI is subservicer of any of the Containers) of each of CAI, the Parent
Guarantor and the Borrower, consolidated balance sheets of each of CAI, the
Parent Guarantor, the Borrower and their Subsidiaries, as at the end of such
fiscal year, and consolidated statements of income, cash flows and retained
earnings of each of CAI, the Parent Guarantor, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries
for the fiscal year then ended, each setting forth in comparative form the
figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied
(except, in the case of any such financial statements of the Borrower, such
financial statements will exclude the impact of any allocated purchase price
resulting from the acquisition of containers by the Borrower or any Affiliate of
the Borrower from another Affiliate of the Borrower), accompanied by, in the
case of CAI and the Parent Guarantor, a report and opinion of KPMG LLP (or such
other independent certified public accountants of nationally recognized standing
as are reasonably acceptable to the Lenders), which report and opinion shall
have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and
shall be unqualified as to  going concern  status, scope of audit or
conformity with GAAP;   

(c)      Commencing with
the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, as soon as practicable and, in any
event, within sixty (60) days after the end of each of the first three fiscal
quarters in each fiscal year (or, with respect to CAI, upon the request of the
Agent, but only so long as CAI is subservicer of any of the Containers) of CAI,
the Parent Guarantor and the Borrower consolidated balance sheets of CAI, the
Parent Guarantor, the Borrower and their Subsidiaries as at the end of such
fiscal quarter, and consolidated statements of income and reconciliation of
surplus of CAI, the Parent Guarantor, the Borrower and their Subsidiaries for
the portion of the fiscal year then ended, all in reasonable detail, prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied
(except, in the case of any such financial statements of the Borrower, such
financial statements will exclude the impact of any allocated purchase price
resulting from the acquisition of containers by the Borrower or any Affiliate of
the Borrower from another Affiliate of the Borrower), except for the lack of
footnotes thereto, and certified by the principal financial or principal
accounting officer of CAI, the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower, as the case may
be, but subject to normal, recurring year-end adjustments;   

(d)      Concurrently
with the delivery of (i) each financial statement pursuant to paragraphs (b) and
(c) of this   Section 6.4  , a certificate substantially in the form
of   Exhibit H   (a  Compliance Certificate ), signed on behalf
of the Borrower by its principal financial or principal accounting officer, and
(ii) each financial statement of the Parent Guarantor pursuant to paragraph (b)
of this Section 6.4, a copy of the certification with respect to financial
statements filed by the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of
the Parent Guarantor in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;   

(e)      Promptly upon
receipt thereof, copies of all management letters of substance and other reports
of substance which are submitted to the Borrower or the Parent Guarantor by
their accountants in connection with any annual or interim audit of the books of
the Borrower or the Parent Guarantor made by such accountants;   

(f)      Promptly upon
their becoming available, copies of such other financial statements and reports,
if any, as the Borrower and/or the Parent Guarantor may be required to publicly
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any similar or corresponding
governmental commission, department or agency substituted therefor, or any
similar or corresponding governmental commission, department, board, bureau, or
agency, federal or state;   

(g)      If and when the
Borrower and/or the Parent Guarantor gives or is required to give notice to the
PBGC of any  Reportable Event  (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA)
with respect to any Plan that might constitute grounds for a termination of such
Plan under Title IV of ERISA, or knows that any member of the Controlled Group
or the plan administrator of any Plan has given or is required to give notice of
any such Reportable Event, a copy of the notice of such Reportable Event given
or required to be given to the PBGC;   

(h)      Immediately upon
becoming aware of the existence of any condition or event that constitutes a
Default or a Servicer Default, written notice thereof specifying the nature and
duration thereof and the action being or proposed to be taken with respect
thereto; and   

(i)      With reasonable
promptness, such other data as the Agent or any of the Lenders may reasonably
request.   

Section 6.5         Business and Corporate
Existence  .  Keep in full force and effect its corporate
existence and all rights, licenses, leases and franchises reasonably necessary
to the conduct of its business and comply with (a) all applicable laws and
regulations wherever its business is conducted, (b) the provisions of its
charter documents or by-laws, and (c) all agreements and instruments by which it
or any of its properties may be bound and all applicable decrees, orders and
judgments, in each case in such manner that a Materially Adverse Effect will not
result. The Borrower will comply with its obligations set forth in Section 5.9
of the Security Agreement.   

Section 6.6         Payment of
Taxes  .  Promptly pay and discharge all lawful taxes,
assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon them or upon their
income or profit or upon any property, real, personal or mixed, belonging to
them,  provided  that neither the Parent Guarantor nor any of its
Subsidiaries shall be required to pay any such tax, assessment, charge or levy
if the same shall not at the time be due and payable or can be paid thereafter
without penalty or if the validity thereof shall currently be contested in good
faith by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued and if the Parent Guarantor
or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, shall have set aside on its books
reserves deemed by it adequate with respect to such tax, assessment, charge or
levy;  provided, further  that any proceedings of the type described in the
proviso above could not (A) reasonably be expected to subject the Agent or any
Lender to any civil or criminal penalty or liability, or (B) involve any
significant risk of material loss, sale or forfeiture of all, or any material
portion of, the Collateral.   

Section 6.7       Maintenance of Property . 
The Borrower shall:  

(a)      keep, or cause
to be kept, all of its Containers in good repair and working order (but in no
event in less than the condition as is customary in the container leasing
industry), and make, or cause to be made, all needful and proper repairs,
replacements, additions and improvements thereto as are necessary for the
conduct of its business, and in order to maintain the Containers in accordance
with manufacturer s instructions and in as good an operating condition as
when originally delivered, reasonable wear and tear and causes beyond the
Borrower s control excepted;   

(b)      at all times
use, or cause to be used, the Container in accordance with good operating
practices and shall at all times comply with all loading limitations, handling
procedures and operating instructions prescribed by the manufacturer and the
Agent or any Lender, which include but are not limited to the latest applicable
regulations and recommendations of the International Organization of
Standardization as well as any applicable local regulations, and prevent usage
which may damage or shorten the life of the Container including, without
limitation, excessive impact and unbalanced loading;   

(c)      not knowingly
use the Containers for storage of transportation of contraband or of goods which
may damage the Container including, without limitation, unprotected corrosive
substances, poorly secured materials, or bulk commodities which may corrode,
oxidize, severely dent, puncture, contaminate, stain or damage the Containers;

(d)      cause the
Containers to be identified by appropriate lettering and numbering, which the
Borrower agrees not to change or obliterate, except at the written request of
the Agent or any Lender; the Borrower may, however, add other markings as may be
requested by a Lessee in accordance with the terms of the related Lease;   

(e)     
comply, or cause to be complied, with the International Convention for Safe
Containers (CSC) in all respects including, without limitation, plating,
maintenance, examination, re-examination and marking with re-examination dates
of such Container, such examination, or re-examination, shall be performed in
accordance with the rules and regulations for the Safety Approval of Cargo
Containers of the United States Department of Transportation.   

Section 6.8      
  Insurance  .  (a) Promptly effect and maintain, or cause to
be effected and maintained by each Lessee, with financially sound and reputable companies
satisfactory to the Agent or, consistent with the Servicing Standard, by such Lessee
pursuant to a self-insurance program, insurance policies: (i) insuring such Containers
against loss by fire, explosion, theft or such other casualties as are usually insured
against companies engaged in the same or a similar business and with coverage, and with
respect to any Container in an amount at least equal to the Net Book Value or Finance
Lease Value, as applicable, of such Container, and (ii) insuring the Borrower against
liability for personal injury and property damage liability, caused by, or relating to,
such Container or its use, with such levels of coverage and deductibles that are customary
with industry standards. The Agent and the Lenders reserve the right (but shall not have
the obligation) to obtain (i) at Borrower s expense, insurance with respect to any or
all of the foregoing risks if the Borrower shall fail to obtain such coverage in the
specified amounts, and (ii) at the Lender s expense, additional insurance on its own
behalf with respect to any or all of the foregoing risks (or any other risk). All
insurance maintained by the Borrower for loss or damage of the Containers shall provide
that losses, if any, shall be payable to Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, or its
designee as sole loss payee and Borrower shall utilize its best efforts to have all checks
relating to any such losses delivered promptly to Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders,
or such other person designated by the Agent. The Agent and each Lender shall be named as
an additional insured with respect to all such liability insurance maintained by, or on
behalf of, the Borrower. Borrower shall pay the premiums with respect to all such
insurance and deliver to Agent evidence satisfactory to Agent of such insurance coverage.
The Borrower shall cause to be provided to Agent, not less than fifteen (15) days prior to
the scheduled expiration or lapse of such insurance coverage, evidence satisfactory to
Agent of renewal or replacement coverage. Each insurer shall agree, by endorsement upon
the policy or policies issued by it or by independent instrument furnished to Agent, that
(i) it will give each additional insured and the loss payee thirty (30) days  prior
written notice of the effective date of any material alteration, cancellation or
non-renewal of such policy; (ii) the interest of any named additional insurance or loss
payee other than Borrower shall not be invalidated by any actions, inactions, breach of
warranty or conditions or negligence of Borrower or any other person with respect to such
policy or policies and (iii) it will permit the Agent and/or the Lender(s) to make
payments to effect the continuation of coverage upon notice of cancellation due to
nonpayment of premium.   

(b)      Maintain with
financially sound and reputable insurance companies insurance on all other
properties and assets in at least such amounts and against at least such risks
as are usually insured against in the same general area as that in which the
Borrower is located and by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses.

Section 6.9         Inspection of Properties
and Books  .  Permit the Agent or any Lender, or any of their
designated representatives or agents, at any reasonable time during business
hours and at reasonable intervals of time, and upon reasonable prior written
notice (or, if a Default, a Servicer Default, Early Amortization Event (other
than as a result of clauses (h) and (i) thereof) or an Event of Default shall
have occurred and then be continuing, at any time and without prior notice), to
(a) visit, inspect and appraise the Containers (subject to any lessee s
right to quiet enjoyment therein) and properties of the Borrower and the Parent
Guarantor; (b) examine and make copies of and take abstracts from the books and
records of the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor, including Container purchase
orders and purchase agreements; and (c) discuss the affairs, finances and
accounts of the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor with their appropriate
officers, employees and accountants. The Borrower shall pay for the reasonable
out-of-pocket cost and expense (including, inter alia, travel) of the Agent and,
in the case of clause (ii) below, each Lender in conducting (i) one (1)
such inspection per calendar year, so long as no Default, Servicer Default,
Early Amortization Event or Event of Default has occurred or is then continuing
and (ii) all such inspections, if a Default, a Servicer Default, Early
Amortization Event or an Event of Default has occurred and is then continuing;
provided, however, that the Agent, each Lender and their duly authorized
representatives, attorneys and accountants shall use reasonable commercial
efforts to share information with one another and otherwise cooperate with one
another to limit the number of audits per annum and minimize the expenses
incurred by the Servicer in connection with any audits or inspections hereunder.

Section 6.10         Licenses and
Permits  .  Cause all Containers which, under applicable Law, is
required to be registered, to be properly registered in the name of the
Borrower. If at any time while any of the Notes are outstanding or the
Commitments (or any portion thereof) remain in effect, any authorization,
consent, approval, permit or license from any Governmental Authority shall
become necessary or required in order that the Borrower may fulfill any of its
obligations hereunder, the Borrower shall immediately take or cause to be taken
all steps reasonably necessary to obtain such authorization, consent, approval,
permit or license and furnish the Agent with evidence thereof.   

Section 6.11         Notice of Material
Claims and Litigation  .  Promptly notify the Agent and each
Lender of the commencement of any claims (other than claims under a policy of
insurance in amounts which, together with any interest accrued thereon, do not
exceed the face value of such policy), actions, suits, proceedings or
investigations of any kind pending or threatened against the Parent Guarantor or
any of its Subsidiaries before any court, tribunal or administrative-agency or
board in an amount in excess of $3,000,000, or which, if adversely determined,
would be reasonably likely, either in any case or in the aggregate, to have a
Material Adverse Effect or materially impair the right of the Parent Guarantor
and its Subsidiaries considered as a whole, or the Borrower considered
individually, to carry on their respective businesses substantially as now
conducted, or which question the validity of this Agreement, any Note or the
Security Documents or any action taken or to be taken pursuant hereto or
thereto.   

Section 6.12         Further
Assurances  .  Cooperate with the Agent and the Lenders and take
such further actions and execute such further instruments and agreements as the
Agent may reasonably request to carry out to the Lenders  satisfaction the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.

Section 6.13         Pension
Plans  .  To the extent applicable, the Parent Guarantor and its
Subsidiaries shall:   

(a)      Fund any
Guaranteed Pension Plan as required by the provisions of Section 302 of ERISA
and Section 412 of the Code, and make all contributions to a Multiemployer Plan
required pursuant to any applicable collective bargaining agreement.   

(b)      Furnish promptly
to the Agent a copy of any notice of termination of a Guaranteed Pension Plan
required to be sent to the PBGC and a copy of any report or demand sent or
received by or with respect to a Guaranteed Pension Plan pursuant to
  4041, 4041A, 4042, 4043, 4062, 4063, 4065, 4066 or 4068 of ERISA or
under subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.   

(c)      Furnish promptly
to the Agent a copy of all Forms 5500, Forms 5500-C and/or Forms 5500-R relating
to a Guaranteed Pension Plan, together with all attachments thereto, including
any actuarial statement relating to a Guaranteed Pension Plan required to be
submitted under   103 (d) of ERISA.   

(d)      Cause any
Guaranteed Pension Plan to pay all benefits when due.   

(e)      Furnish the
Agent with copies of any request for waiver from the funding standards or
extension of the amortization periods required by Section 303 and 304 of ERISA
or Section 412 of the Code, with respect to any Guaranteed Pension Plan no later
than the date on which the request is submitted to the Department of Labor or
the United States Internal Revenue Service, as the case may be.   

(f)      Promptly notify
the Agent of any  complete withdrawal ,  partial withdrawal 
or  reorganization  with respect to any Multiemployer Plan as such
terms are defined in ERISA.   

(g)      With respect to
any Guaranteed Pension Plan, promptly notify the Agent upon the occurrence of
any  Reportable Event  as defined in ERISA.   

Section 6.14       Environmental and Safety
Matters .    

(a)      Immediately
report to Agent and each Lender upon becoming aware thereof (a) the introduction
of any Hazardous Material onto any facility owned or operated by the Parent
Guarantor or its Subsidiaries or any if the introduction thereof reasonably
could be expected to have a Materially Adverse Effect and (b) the initiation of
any action, suit, proceeding, investigation or regulatory action against the
Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiary or in connection with any such
facility relating to any Release of Hazardous Materials if such could reasonably
be expected to have a Materially Adverse Effect.   

(b)      Immediately
deliver to Agent and each Lender copies of (a) all reports (other than routine
reports regularly submitted in the ordinary course of business) submitted to any
Governmental Authority by the Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries in
connection with either the presence of Hazardous Materials at any facility owned
or operated by the Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or any other
environmental matter relating to such facility, and (b) all reports, notices,
and correspondence transmitted to the Parent Guarantor or its Subsidiaries by
any Governmental Authority in connection with either the presence of any
Hazardous Materials at or near any such facility or any other environmental
matter relating to such facility.   

(c)      Except for
Hazardous Materials that the Parent Guarantor or its Subsidiaries uses or stores
or that a lessee of the Parent Guarantor or its Subsidiaries uses, stores or
transports in the ordinary course of its business and in compliance with all
applicable Laws, keep all of its properties or assets free of Hazardous
Materials. The Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries shall comply with and use
its best efforts to ensure compliance by all tenants and subtenants with all
Environmental Laws and all Laws relating to occupational safety or health and
shall obtain and comply with, and use its best efforts to ensure that all
tenants and subtenants obtain and comply with, any and all approvals,
registrations or permits required thereunder. The Parent Guarantor and its
Subsidiaries shall conduct and complete all investigations, studies, sampling
and testing, and all remedial, removal, and other action necessary to clean up
and remove all Hazardous Materials, on, from or affecting any of its properties
or assets as required by all applicable Laws, except as such laws, ordinances,
rules, regulations, orders or directives may be contested by the Parent
Guarantor and its Subsidiaries in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for
which adequate reserves have been established in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.   

(d)      Defend,
indemnify, and hold harmless the Agent, each Lender, each Credit Support Party
(to the extent they have funded a Credit Loan previously held by a Conduit
Lender) and each of their respective directors, officers, employees, affiliates,
representatives and agents (each an  Indemnified Party ) from and against
any and all penalties, fines, liabilities, damages, costs, or expenses of
whatever kind or nature asserted against such Indemnified Party (unless
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified
Party), arising out of, or in any way related to: (a) the Release or threatened
Release of any Hazardous Materials on, at or from any property at any time
owned, operated or occupied by the Parent Guarantor or its Subsidiaries; (b) any
personal injury (including wrongful death) or property damage (real or personal)
arising out of or related to such Hazardous Materials; (c) any lawsuit brought
or threatened, settlement reached, or government order relating to such
Hazardous Materials, and/or (d) any violation of Laws which are based upon or in
any way related to such Hazardous Materials or to any environmental matter,
including reasonable attorney and consultant fees, investigation and laboratory
fees, court costs, and litigation expenses actually incurred.   

Section 6.15         Payment of
Wages  .  Comply at all times with the United States Fair Labor
Standards Act, as amended, including the provisions of such Act relating to the
payment of minimum and overtime wages as the same may become due from time to
time, if and to the extent that non-compliance could reasonably be expected to
have a Materially Adverse Effect.   

Section 6.16         Notice of
Default  .  Promptly, upon becoming aware thereof, give written
notice to the Agent of: (a) the occurrence of any Default, Servicer Default or
Event of Default, (b) any litigation or proceeding affecting the Parent
Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their properties or assets which,
if adversely determined, might have a Materially Adverse Effect, (c) any dispute
between the Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries and any Governmental
Authority that would be reasonably expected to materially interfere with their
normal business operations, and (d) any Materially Adverse Effect.   

Section 6.17         OFAC .
 The Borrower shall ensure that no item of Container pledged as Collateral
pursuant to the terms of the Security Agreement shall be traded, located,
operated or used, directly or indirectly, in a Prohibited Jurisdiction or by a
Prohibited Person, and no Lessee or any sublessee shall be a Prohibited Person
or organized in a Prohibited Jurisdiction.   

Section 6.18         Possession of Eligible
Container  . The Borrower will at all times maintain possession of the
Eligible Containers, except (i) for such time as such Eligible Containers is in
the possession of a Lessee pursuant to the terms of a Lease, or (ii) for
temporary delivery thereof to depot owners and other Persons for repairs and
maintenance made in the ordinary course of business.   

Section 6.19         Interest Rate Hedge
Agreements  . (a) The Borrower will, by not later than the dates set forth
in Section 6.19(b) hereof, enter into and thereafter maintain (or will cause to
be entered into and maintained) Interest Rate Hedge Agreements with Eligible
Interest Rate Hedge Providers to hedge its exposure to Finance Leases and Term
Leases. The notional balances of any Interest Rate Hedge Agreements entered into
with respect to Finance Leases shall amortize in a manner consistent with the
remaining rental payment on such Finance Leases. The notional balance of all
Interest Rate Hedge Agreements entered into with respect to Term Leases shall
amortize at an annual rate reasonably consistent with the depreciation rate
associated with the Containers then subject to such Term Leases. The required
notional balances of such Interest Rate Hedge Agreements shall be as follows
(the  Hedging Requirements ):   

(i)      with respect to
Finance Leases, at least ninety percent (90%) and not more than one hundred
percent (100%) of the portion of the Aggregate Note Principal Balance which
finances the Finance Leases. The portion of the Aggregate Note Principal Balance
which finances the Finance Leases is determined by the product of (A) the sum of
the Aggregate Finance Lease Value and (B) 75.00% (if the Aggregate Class B Note
Principal Balance has been reduced to zero) or ninety percent (90%) (if the
Aggregate Class B Note Principal Balance is greater than zero);    

(ii)      with respect to
Term Leases, at least seventy percent (70%) and not more than one hundred
percent (100%) of the portion of the Aggregate Note Principal Balance which
finances the Term Leases. The portion of the Aggregate Note Principal Balance
which finances the Term Leases is determined by the product of (A) the sum of
the Aggregate Net Book Value and (B) 75.00% (if the Aggregate Class B Note
Principal Balance has been reduced to zero) or ninety percent (90%) (if the
Aggregate Class B Note Principal Balance is greater than zero).    

(b)      Upon the
acquisition by the Borrower of either a Finance Lease or a Term Leases, then,
within thirty (30) days after the date of such acquisition, the Borrower shall
enter into additional Interest Rate Hedge Agreements in a notional amount such
that, after giving effect thereto, the Hedging Requirements will be satisfied;
provided, however, that with respect to those Finance Leases and/or Term Leases
acquired by the Borrower during the period commencing on the Closing Date to and
including April 20, 2006, the Borrower shall not be required to comply with the
Hedging Requirements until the close of business on April 20, 2006 (without
giving effect to the thirty (30) day period set forth in Section 6.19(a) above).

(c)       If the Borrower
or Servicer, on behalf of Borrower, fails to maintain the Hedging Requirements,
the Agent shall have the right, in its sole discretion to direct the Agent, to
enter into Interest Rate Hedge Agreements, caps or collars on the
Borrower s behalf. In the event the Agent enters into an Interest Rate
Hedge Agreement on the Borrower s behalf, the Agent shall promptly send a
copy of any such agreement to the Borrower and may provide the Agent and
Servicer with a written direction to deposit in the Trust Account certain
amounts to purchase, or reimburse the Agent or a third party for purchase, such
Interest Rate Hedge Agreement.   

(d)       As additional
security hereunder, the Borrower hereby assigns to the Agent all right, title
and interest of the Borrower under each Interest Rate Hedge Agreement,
including, but not limited to, all present and future amounts payable by an
Interest Rate Hedge Provider to the Borrower under or in connection with such
Interest Rate Hedge Agreement. The Borrower acknowledges that, as a result of
such assignment, the Borrower may not, without the prior written consent of the
Agent, exercise any rights under any Interest Rate Hedge Agreement that could
reasonably be expected to have a materially adversely effect on the rights of
the Agent and Lender s hereunder, as assignee of the Borrower s rights
under such Interest Rate Hedge Agreement; provided that nothing herein shall
have the effect of releasing the Borrower from any of its obligations under an
Interest Rate Hedge Agreement or be construed as requiring the consent of the
Agent, any Lender or third party beneficiary hereunder for the performance of
the Borrower s obligations thereunder.   

(e)       The Borrower
shall enter into each Interest Rate Hedge Agreement only with an Eligible
Interest Rate Hedge Provider. Each Interest Rate Hedge Agreement shall provide
that if the Eligible Interest Rate Hedge Provider or any party providing credit
support on its behalf suffers an Interest Rate Hedge Provider Minimum Rating
Downgrade Event, the Interest Rate Hedge Provider will be required to post,
within ten (10) Business Days of such Interest Rate Hedge Provider Minimum
Rating Downgrade Event, collateral set forth in the applicable Interest Rate
Hedge Agreement and execute a  Credit Support Annex  in connection
therewith. Failure to post collateral within such time shall constitute a
termination event under the terms of the applicable Interest Rate Hedge
Agreement. Such Interest Rate Hedge Provider may transfer (at its own cost),
with the cooperation of the Borrower and the Servicer, all of its rights and
obligations under its Interest Rate Hedge Agreement to an Eligible Interest Rate
Hedge Provider in accordance with the terms of its Interest Rate Hedge
Agreement. Each Interest Rate Hedge Agreement shall also provide that if the
Interest Rate Hedge Provider (or any party providing credit support identified
in the Interest Rate Hedge Agreement or any credit support annex thereto on its
behalf) suffers an Interest Rate Hedge Provider Required Rating Downgrade Event,
such Interest Rate Hedge Provider will be required to transfer (at its own cost)
all of its rights and obligations under its Interest Rate Hedge Agreement to an
Eligible Interest Rate Hedge Provider not later than thirty (30) Business Days
after the occurrence of the Interest Rate Hedge Provider Required Rating
Downgrade Event. Upon the occurrence of an Interest Rate Hedge Provider Required
Rating Downgrade Event, the Agent shall have the right to direct the Borrower to
terminate the applicable Interest Rate Hedge Agreement. The Borrower may, with
the prior written consent of the Agent, or shall, at the direction of the
Administrative Agent, terminate the Interest Rate Hedge Agreement and
simultaneously enter into a replacement Interest Rate Hedge Agreement in the
event the Interest Rate Hedge Provider fails to post collateral or transfer its
rights and interests under the Interest Rate Hedge Agreement in accordance with
the terms of the Interest Rate Hedge Agreement.   

(f)       The Agent
shall, promptly after any downgrade for which the Interest Rate Hedge Provider
is required to post collateral, establish a single segregated trust account
(with separate subaccounts for each financial institution acting as an Interest
Rate Hedge Provider) in the name of the Agent (collectively, the
 Counterparty Collateral Account ), which shall be held in trust in
the name of the Agent for the benefit of itself and the Lenders and over which
the Agent shall have exclusive control and the sole right of withdrawal.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, investment earnings on
amounts held in the Counterparty Collateral Account shall be remitted to the
applicable Interest Rate Hedge Provider upon its written request and its
representation that the request is in accordance with the terms of the
applicable Interest Rate Hedge Agreement. The Agent shall deposit all collateral
received from an Interest Rate Hedge Provider under an Interest Rate Hedge
Agreement in the Counterparty Collateral Account. Any and all funds at any time
on deposit in, or otherwise held to the credit of, the Counterparty Collateral
Account shall be held in trust by the Agent for the benefit of the secured
parties under this Agreement. The only permitted withdrawal from or application
of funds on deposit in, or otherwise to the credit of the Counterparty
Collateral Account shall be (i) for application to obligations of the applicable
Interest Rate Hedge Provider to the Borrower under its Interest Rate Hedge
Agreement, if such Interest Rate Hedge Agreement becomes subject to early
termination, or (ii) to return collateral or investment earnings to such
Interest Rate Hedge Provider when and as required by such Interest Rate Hedge
Agreement. The Agent shall take all actions necessary to return collateral to
any Interest Rate Hedge Provider as described in the preceding sentence
including, without limitation, issuance of entitlement orders to any Securities
Intermediary (as defined in the UCC). No actions taken under this Section 6.19
shall be at the expense of the Agent.   

(g)       All payments
received from an Interest Rate Hedge Provider shall be deposited by the Borrower
directly into the Trust Account and distributed in accordance with Section
2.18(b) hereof.   

(h)       Any notional
reductions shall be effected over all outstanding transactions under Interest
Rate Hedge Agreements then in effect on a  pro rata  basis pursuant to the
terms of the Interest Rate Hedge Agreements.   

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
Fortis Capital Corp., in its individual capacity on behalf of itself and its
Affiliates, hereby agrees that any Interest Rate Hedge Agreement entered into by
such Person with respect hereto shall be fully assignable by the Borrower upon
the termination of the Security Agreement and the lien created thereunder;
 provided, however , that, after giving effect to such assignment, all of
the following conditions shall be satisfied: (i) the Interest Rate Hedge
Provider shall be secured by the Containers and Related Assets, (ii) the amount
of collateral supporting the obligations to the Interest Rate Hedge Provider
shall not be materially less than the amount of collateral hereunder, (iii) the
priority of payments (whether in a securitization or a secured lending facility)
to the Interest Rate Hedge Provider (both in terms of scheduled payments and
termination payments) shall be on substantially the same terms as the priority
of payments provided for hereunder and (iv) the Interest Rate Hedge
Provider s rights and remedies under any successor transaction document
shall not be materially less than the rights and remedies granted hereunder.

Section 6.20         UNIDROIT
Convention  . The Borrower shall comply with the terms and provisions of
the UNIDROIT Convention on International Interests in Mobile Goods or any other
internationally recognized system for recording interests in or liens against
shipping containers at the time that such convention is adopted by the container
leasing industry.   

Section 6.21         Separate
Identity  . The Borrower will be operated, or will cause itself to be
operated, so that the Borrower will not be  substantively
consolidated  or other analogous theory under any applicable Insolvency Law
with the Parent Guarantor, the Seller, the Servicer or any of their Affiliates.

Section 6.22         Investment
Company  . The Borrower will conduct its operations in a manner which will
not subject it to registration as an  investment company  under the
Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.   

Section 6.23         United States Tax
Election  . The Borrower shall make an election pursuant to Section
301.7701-3 of the Code to be either classified as a partnership or disregarded
as an entity separate from its owner.   

Section 6.24         Independent
Quotaholder  . All of the common quotas of the Borrower will be owned by
an Independent Person.   

Section 6.25      
  Intercreditor Delivery .  The Borrower and Parent Guarantor shall
use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause each lender to Servicer (to
the extent any such indebtedness is secured by containers for which remittances
are sent to the Lockbox Account), Interpool Limited and their Affiliates to
execute a joinder to the Intercreditor and Lockbox Administration Agreement.

Section 6.26         Tax Elections and
Filings  . To the extent that the proceeds of any Credit Loan will be used
to fund, in whole or in part, a direct or indirect dividend or distribution to
Interpool Inc. or any of its Affiliates for which the Parent Guarantor or any of
its Affiliates, as the case may be, has made an election pursuant to Section 965
of the Code with respect to such distribution, each of the Borrower and the
Parent Guarantor hereby covenant and agree that:   

(1)   
    Such dividend or distribution will be
invested in the United States pursuant to a domestic reinvestment plan (a
 Plan ) that:    

(A)   
                  
               has been approved by the president and chief executive officer of the Parent
               Guarantor before the payment of such dividend and has been approved by the board
               of directors of the Parent Guarantor; and    

(B)   
                  
               provides for the reinvestment of such dividend in the United States for one of
               the permitted purposes set forth in Section 965(b)(4)(B) of the Code.    

(2)   
                  
               Any dividend or distribution to the Parent Guarantor of the type described in
               clause (1) above will be reinvested in the United States for one or more of the
               purposes specified in the Plan.    

Section 6.27         Post Closing
Lease  . (a) The Borrower shall deliver to the Agent, by not later than
April 30, 2006, the executed original counterpart of each Post Closing Lease or,
if not delivered by such date, exclude such Post Closing Lease and the related
Containers from the calculation of the Class A Asset Base, the Class B Asset
Base and the Maximum Asset Base.   

(b)      With respect to
each Post Closing Lease for which neither the Seller nor the Servicer has
received at least one rental payment from the related Lessee as of the Closing
Date, the Borrower shall exclude such Post Closing Lease and the related
Containers from the calculation of the Class A Asset Base, the Class B Asset
Base and the Maximum Asset Base if such first rental payment, or an executed
original counterpart of such Post Closing Lease has not been received by
February 21, 2006 or such Post Closing Lease shall otherwise be classified as a
Defaulted Lease.   

   SECTION 7.        NEGATIVE COVENANTS .  

Each
of the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor (except as expressly set forth below)
severally covenant and agree that, so long as any amounts are owing with respect
to the Notes or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement or the Commitments (or any
portion thereof) remain in effect, the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor shall
not and, to the extent expressly set forth below, shall not permit any of their
Subsidiaries, except with the prior written consent of the Agent in each
instance to:   

Section 7.1      
  Liens  .  Create, incur, assume or permit to exist any
Liens on the Collateral, except Permitted Liens.   

Section 7.2         Maximum Funded Debt to
Tangible Net Worth  .  At the end of each fiscal quarter
(measured on the basis of the most recent financial statements delivered
pursuant to Section 6.4 hereof), permit the ratio of the Parent Guarantor s
(i) Funded Debt to (ii) Tangible Net Worth, to exceed the ratio of 4.0 to 1.

Section 7.3         Minimum Tangible Net
Worth  .  At the end of any fiscal quarter (measured on the
basis of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 6.4
hereof), permit the Parent Guarantor s Tangible Net Worth to be less than
Three Hundred Million Dollars ($300,000,000).   

Section 7.4         Fixed Charge Coverage
Ratio  . At the end of any fiscal quarter (measured on the basis of the
most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 6.4 hereof),
permit the Parent Guarantor s ratio of (A) for the rolling four quarter
period ending on the last day of such quarter, the sum of (i) Earnings Available
for Fixed Charges, plus (ii) depreciation to (B) Fixed Charges for such period,
to be less than 1.5 to 1.   

Section 7.5         Additional Financial
Covenants  .  If on or after the Closing Date, the Parent
Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries either incur additional Indebtedness, or
amend the documentation for any Indebtedness outstanding on the Closing Date, so
as to either (i) incorporate additional financial covenants, or (ii) amend
covenants of the type set forth in Section 7.2, 7.3 or 7.4 hereof in such a way
as to make such covenant more restrictive, then the Borrower shall promptly (but
in no event later than ten (10) Business Days thereafter) notify the Agent and
each Lender of such occurrence. If the Majority Lenders so elect, then such
revised and/or additional financial covenants shall automatically be
incorporated by reference into this Agreement without the need for further
action by any party whatsoever. Thereupon, the Agent and each Lender shall have
a separate and independent right to enforce such revised and/or additional
financial covenants.   

Section 7.6     
 Distributions .    

(a)      The Borrower
shall not make any Distributions so long as a Default, an Early Amortization
Event or an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would occur after
giving effect to such Distribution.   

(b)      The Parent
Guarantor shall cause each of Interpool Containers and Interpool Limited to not
make any Distributions to their respective shareholders (including Distributions
to the Parent Guarantor with respect to any preference shares owned by the
Parent Guarantor) for the period commencing on December 31, 2005 and ending on
the date on which the Aggregate Class B Note Principal Balance has been reduced
to zero.   

(c)      The Parent
Guarantor shall not make any Distributions or make tender offers to its
shareholders with the proceeds of any Credit Loan made with respect to the Class
B Notes.   

Section 7.7         Merger, Consolidation or
Sale of Assets, Etc  .  (a) None of the Borrower, the Parent
Guarantor or any Subsidiary of the Parent Guarantor shall become a party to any
merger or consolidation, or take any action looking to the dissolution or
liquidation provided that, so long as no Default or Event of Default shall have
occurred and be continuing or would not result as a result thereof, the
following actions shall be permitted to the extent that the Borrower is not a
party thereto: (A) the merger or consolidation of a Subsidiary (other than the
Borrower) into the Parent Guarantor, or (B) the merger of any Subsidiary (other
than the Borrower) into any other Subsidiary (other than the Borrower) or (C)
any consolidation or merger of the Parent Guarantor for which all of the
following conditions precedent are satisfied:   

(i)      if the Parent
Guarantor is not the surviving entity the person formed by such consolidation or
merger (each such corporation and each such person or entity being hereinafter
called a  Successor ) shall execute and deliver to the Agent and each
Lender (x) an agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the
Lessor containing an assumption by such Successor of the due and punctual
performance of each covenant and condition of the Parent Guarantor under this
Agreement and the Parent Guaranty and (y) an opinion of counsel as to the due
execution, delivery and enforceability of such agreement;    

(ii)      immediately
after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default
(including no breach of the financial covenants set forth in Section 7.2, 7.3,
7.4 or 7.5 hereof) shall have occurred and be continuing, and the Successor
shall have delivered an officer s certificate to such effect;

(iii)      the relevant
Successor is, in the reasonable opinion of each of the Lenders, at least of the
same creditworthiness as the Parent Guarantor immediately prior to such merger
or consolidation and, if not, such Successor provides each of the Lenders with
alternative security acceptable to each of the Lenders; and    

(iv)      after giving
effect to such merger or consolidation, the Successor complies with the then
single obligor credit limitation for each of the Lenders.    

(b)     The Borrower shall not
sell, lease or otherwise dispose of its assets except for (i) sales and
dispositions made in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.12 hereof and
(ii) leases of Container entered into the ordinary course of business;
 provided, however , that the lease of all, or substantially all, of the
Containers by the Borrower to an Affiliate of the Parent Guarantor or to a
single Lessee will violate this Section 7.12(b).  

(c)     So long as CAI is
subservicer, the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries shall not dispose of its
investment in CAI as in effect on the Closing Date without the prior written
consent of the Agent (acting at the direction of all of the Lenders), such
consent not to be unreasonably withheld. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing
in this Agreement shall prevent the Parent Guarantor or any Subsidiary from
selling or disposing of investments (other than the stock of or other ownership
interests in CAI), including, securities which are  margin securities 
or  margin stock , as such terms are used in Regulations U and X of
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, for fair value in bona
fide transactions.   

(d)     The Parent Guarantor
shall at all times directly or indirectly own all of the issued and outstanding
Voting Stock of the Seller and shall directly or indirectly exercise a
controlling influence over the composition of the board of directors of the
Seller or otherwise over the management or policies of the Seller.  

(e)     The Parent Guarantor
shall cause Interpool Containers Limited to not sell, convey, transfer or pledge
any of the Voting Stock of the Borrower (or any beneficial or other interest
therein) without the prior written consent of the Agent (acting at the direction
of the Majority Lenders) in each instance.   

Section 7.8      [Reserved].    

Section 7.9      
  ERISA  .  Permit any Plan maintained by it to (a) engage
in any  prohibited transaction  (as defined in Section 4975 of the
Code) which could reasonably be expected to result in material liability for
excise taxes or fiduciary liability under Section 406 of ERISA, (b) incur any
 accumulated funding deficiency  (as defined in Section 302 of ERISA)
whether or not waived, or (c) terminate any Plan in a manner that could result
in the imposition of a Lien or encumbrance on the assets of the Parent Guarantor
or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to Section 4068 of ERISA.   

Section 7.10         Public Utility Holding
Company  .  Directly or indirectly own, control or hold with
power to vote any  voting security  of an  electric utility
company  or a  gas utility company  or of a  holding
company  holding any  voting security  of either the foregoing,
as such terms are defined in the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.

Section 7.11      
  Transactions with Affiliates  .  The Borrower will not
enter into or permit to exist, directly or indirectly, any transaction with any
Affiliate of the Parent Guarantor or any Subsidiary thereof, except for
transactions made on fair and reasonable terms which are no more favorable to
such Affiliate than would be obtained in a comparable arm s-length
transaction with a person that is not an Affiliate.   

Section 7.12      
  Dispositions of Collateral  .  The Borrower shall not
sell, transfer, exchange or otherwise dispose of any of the Collateral, except:

(i)      in connection
with a sale pursuant to Section 8 hereof;    

(ii)      in connection
with a repurchase or substitution pursuant to Sections 3.03, 3.04 or 3.05 of the
Contribution and Sale Agreement (and, in connection with any such substitution,
subject to the limitations set forth in the Contribution and Sale Agreement);

(iii)      sales of
Containers for sales proceeds of not less than the sum of the Net Book Values of
the Containers that were sold, regardless of whether an Early Amortization
Event, a Default or an Event of Default is then continuing or whether such sales
are considered to have been made in the ordinary course of business; provided
that, (x) the proceeds of such disposition are deposited into the Trust Account,
and (y) after giving effect to such sale or disposition, the Aggregate Note
Principal Balance will not exceed the Maximum Asset Base (calculated after
giving effect to all principal payments made in connection with such sale);

(iv)      sales of
Containers in the ordinary course of business (including any such sales
resulting from the sell/repair decision of the Servicer) regardless of the sales
proceeds realized from such sales so long as a Default, Event of Default or
Early Amortization Event is not then continuing or would result from such sale
of Containers; provided that, (x) the proceeds of such disposition are deposited
into the Trust Account, and (y) after giving effect to such sale or disposition,
the Aggregate Note Principal Balance will not exceed the Maximum Asset Base
(calculated after giving effect to all principal payments made in connection
with such sale);    

(v)      if an Early
Amortization Event is then continuing or would result from such sale of
Containers, sales of Containers in the normal course of business (including any
such sales resulting from the sell/repair decision of the Servicer) so long as
the sum of the Net Book Values of all Containers that were sold for less than
Net Book Value during the four (4) immediately preceding Collection Periods
shall not exceed an amount equal to the product of (x) five percent (5%) and (y)
an amount equal to the quotient of (i) the sum of the aggregate Net Book Values
as of the last day of each of the four (4) immediately preceding Collection
Periods, divided by (ii) four (4); provided that, (x) the proceeds of such
disposition are deposited into the Trust Account, and (y) after giving effect to
such sale or disposition, the Aggregate Note Principal Balance will not exceed
the Maximum Asset Base; and    

(vi)      sales,
transfers or exchanges for which the Agent, acting at the direction of the
Majority Lenders, shall have given its prior written consent.    

Section 7.13         Other
Indebtedness  . The Borrower shall not contract for, create, incur, assume
or suffer to exist any Indebtedness except (i) any Notes issued pursuant to this
Agreement, (ii) obligations incurred pursuant to the terms of the Loan
Documents, (iii) trade payables and expense accruals incurred in the ordinary
course and which are incidental to the purposes permitted pursuant to the
Borrower s charter documents and (iv) Interest Rate Hedge Agreements
required or permitted pursuant to the terms of Section 6.19 hereof.   

Section 7.14         Charter
Documents  . The Borrower will not amend or modify its memorandum of
association or by-laws without the prior written consent of the Agent, acting at
the direction of the Majority Lenders, in each instance.   

Section 7.15         Capital
Expenditures  . The Borrower will not make any expenditure (by long-term
or operating lease or otherwise) for capital assets (both realty and
personalty), except for capital improvements to the containers in the ordinary
course of its business and in accordance with the Servicing Agreement.

Section 7.16         Permitted
Activities  . The Borrower will not engage in any activity or enter into
any transaction except as permitted (i) under its articles of organization as in
effect on the date on which this Agreement is executed and (ii) pursuant to the
terms of the Loan Documents.   

Section 7.17         United States Tax
Election  . The Borrower shall not elect to be classified as an
association under Section 301.7701-3 of the Code.   

Section 7.18         Amendment to or Waiver
of Loan Documents .  The Borrower will not, except as expressly authorized
therein, amend, modify or waive any of its rights under the provisions of any
Loan Document without the prior written consent of the Agent in each instance;
provided, however, the Intercreditor Agreement may be amended from time to time
without the consent of the Agent or any Lender in accordance with the provisions
thereof in order to add additional owners and Lenders thereto.   

Section 7.19         CAI Agreement  .
So long as CAI is a Subservicer of any of the Containers, the Borrower shall not
amend, modify or waive any provision of, or default under, the CAI Agreement
without the prior written consent of the Agent (acting at the direction of the
Majority Lenders) in each instance, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.   

SECTION 8.        EVENTS OF DEFAULT .  

The
occurrence and continuation of any of the following events shall be  Events of
Default  (or, if the giving of notice or lapse of time or both is required, then prior
to such notice and/or lapse of time, the occurrence of such events shall be
 Defaults ):   

(a)      if the Borrower
shall default in the payment (A) on any Payment Date of the Class A Note
Interest Payment payable on such date (after giving effect to any draws on the
Restricted Cash Account), or (B) on the Final Maturity Date of the then unpaid
principal balance of, and accrued interest on, any Note due on such date and all
other amounts owing to such Noteholders pursuant to the terms of the Loan
Documents, and, if such failure results solely from an administrative failure
(other than by the Borrower) in wiring such payments, such condition continues
unremedied for two (2) Business Days; or   

(b)      if the Parent
Guarantor or the Borrower, as the case may be, shall default in the performance
of or compliance with any of the covenants or agreements contained in
  Section 6.21  ,   Section 6.24  ,   Section
7.1   (for Liens in respect of Collateral representing 2% or more of the
Class A Asset Base),   Section 7.2  ,   Section 7.3  ,
  Section 7.4  ,   Section 7.6  ,   Section 7.7  ,
  Section 7.12  ,   Section 7.13  , or   Section
7.14  ; or   

(c)      if the Parent
Guarantor or the Borrower shall default in any material respect in the
performance of or compliance with any term contained in   Section
6.8  ,   Section 6.22  ,   Section 6.25  ,
  Section 7.1   (except as otherwise provided for in this Section 8),
  Section 7.10  ,
  Section 7.11   or   Section 7.16   and such default shall
not have been remedied within ten (10) Business Days after notice thereof shall
have been given to the Borrower by the Agent or any Lender; or   

(d)      if the Parent
Guarantor or the Borrower shall default in the performance of, or breach of or
compliance with, any term contained herein (other than those expressly referred
to in this   Section 8  ), or in any of the other Loan Documents which
could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the Agent or the
Lenders, and such default, if capable of cure, shall not have been remedied
within thirty (30) days after the earlier to occur of (A) the date on which an
officer of the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower has actual knowledge thereof and
(B) the date on which notice thereof shall have been sent to the Borrower by the
Agent or any Lender;  provided, however , that an additional thirty (30)
days grace period shall be available for defaults already subject to remedial
action during the initial grace period; or   

(e)      if any
representation or warranty made by any of the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower
herein or in any other Loan Documents or in any other certificates, documents or
agreements executed in connection with the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement shall prove to have been false or incorrect in any material respect on
the date when made or deemed to have been made which could reasonably be
expected to materially and adversely affects the Agent or the Lenders and, if
such breach is capable of cure, such inaccuracy continues unremedied for a
period of thirty (30) days after the earlier to occur of (A) the date that any
officer of the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower, as the case may be, has
knowledge of such inaccuracy or (B) the date on which written notice thereof
requiring the same to be remedied shall have been given to the Parent Guarantor
or the Borrower, as the case may be, by the Agent or any Lender;  provided,
however,  that an additional thirty (30) day grace period shall be available
for defaults already subject to remedial action during the initial grace period;
provided, further, that the representations and warranties set forth in
 Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.12, 3.15, 3.20 and 3.21  of this Agreement shall
not have the benefit of the thirty (30) day cure set forth above; or

(f)      the occurrence
of either of the following:   

(A)    
                  
(i) a default by the Parent Guarantor has occurred and is continuing due to
failure to make any payment when due (beyond the applicable grace period with
respect thereto, if any) with respect to Indebtedness which, individually or in
the aggregate, exceeds Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000), (ii) the Parent
Guarantor shall have notice or actual knowledge of such default and (iii) either
(A) the holder(s) of such Indebtedness have exercised remedies against the
obligor (including limiting borrowings or advances) or have caused the Parent
Guarantor to retain or employ a restructuring or crisis manager or specialist
(other than the Parent Guarantor s independent public accountants or
financial advisors) or (B) such default shall not have been (x) cured or (y)
temporarily waived by the applicable holder(s) of such Indebtedness within
twenty (20) Business Days after the later of such default or the expiration of
any applicable grace period and, in any event, with respect to any waiver, such
default shall not have been permanently waived within ninety (90) days after the
later of such default or the expiration of any applicable grace period; or

(B)    
                  
(i) any default by the Parent Guarantor has occurred and is continuing with
respect to the observance or performance (beyond the applicable grace period
with respect thereto, if any) of any agreement or covenant relating to
Indebtedness, which individually or in the aggregate, exceed Twenty-Five Million
Dollars ($25,000,000) or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing,
securing or relating thereto or any other event or condition shall occur or
condition exist, the effect of which default or other event or condition is to
cause, or permit, the holder or holders of such Indebtedness (or trustee or
agent on behalf of such holders) to cause such Indebtedness to become due prior
to its stated maturity, (ii) the Parent Guarantor shall have notice or actual
knowledge of such default and (iii) either (A) the holder(s) of such
Indebtedness have exercised remedies against the Parent Guarantor (including
limiting borrowings or advances for more than fifteen (15) Business Days) or
have caused the Parent Guarantor to retain or employ a restructuring or crisis
manager or specialist (other than the Parent Guarantor s independent public
accountants or financial advisors), or B) such default shall not have been (x)
cured or (y) temporarily waived by the applicable holder(s) of such Indebtedness
within sixty (60) days after the later of such default or the expiration of any
applicable grace period and, in any event, with respect to any waiver, such
default shall not have been permanently waived within ninety (90) days after the
later of such default or the expiration of any applicable grace period; or

(g)      if the Borrower
or the Parent Guarantor shall (i) fail to pay its debts generally as the same
shall become due, or (ii) apply for or consent to the appointment of, or the
taking of possession by, a receiver, custodian, trustee, liquidator or similar
official of itself or of all or a substantial part of its property, (iii) be
generally not paying its debts as such debts become due, (iv) make a general
assignment for the benefit of its creditors, (v) commence a voluntary case under
the Federal Bankruptcy Code (as now or hereafter in effect), (vi) take any
action or commence any case or proceeding under any law relating to bankruptcy,
insolvency, reorganization, winding-up or composition or adjustment of debts, or
any other law providing for the relief of debtors, (including, without
limitation, any Insolvency Law (as now or hereafter in effect)), (vii) fail to
contest in a timely or appropriate manner, or acquiesce in writing to, any
petition filed against it in an involuntary case under the Federal Bankruptcy
Code or other law, (viii) take any action under the laws of its jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization similar to any of the foregoing, or (ix) take any
corporate action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
or  

(h)      if a proceeding
or case shall be commenced, without the application or consent of the Borrower
or the Parent Guarantor in any court of competent jurisdiction, seeking (i) the
liquidation, reorganization, dissolution, winding up, or composition or
readjustment of its debts, (ii) the appointment of a trustee, receiver,
custodian, liquidator or the like of it or of all or any substantial part of its
assets, or (iii) similar relief in respect of it, under any law relating to
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, winding-up or composition or adjustment
of debts or any other law providing for the relief of debtors (including,
without limitation, any Insolvency Law (as now or hereafter in effect)), and
such proceeding or case shall continue undismissed, or unstayed and in effect,
for a period of sixty (60) days; or if an order for relief shall be entered in
an involuntary case under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, against the Parent
Guarantor or the Borrower; or if action under the laws of the jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization of the Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries
similar to any of the foregoing shall be taken with respect to the Borrower or
any such Subsidiary and shall continue unstayed and in effect for any period of
sixty (60) days; or   

(i)      if a judgment or
order for the payment of money shall be entered against the Parent Guarantor or
any of its Subsidiaries (including the Borrower) by any court, or if a warrant
of attachment or execution or similar process shall be issued or levied against
property of the Parent Guarantor or any such Subsidiary, that in the aggregate
exceeds $5,000,000 in value and such judgment, order, warrant or process shall
continue undischarged, unsatisfied or unstayed for sixty (60) days; or

(j)      if the Parent
Guarantor or any member of the Controlled Group shall fail to pay when due an
amount or amounts aggregating in excess of $3,000,000 that it shall have become
liable to pay to the PBGC or to a Plan under Title IV of ERISA; or if notice of
intent to terminate a Plan or Plans in a  distress situation  under
Section 4041(c) of ERISA shall be filed under Title IV of ERISA by the Parent
Guarantor, any member of the Controlled Group, any plan administrator or any
combination of the foregoing; or if any of such Persons files a notice of intent
to terminate a Plan or Plans pursuant to a  standard  termination that
qualifies as such due to an agreement by the Borrower of any member of the
Controlled Group to contribute additional amounts to such Plan or Plans; or if
the PBGC shall institute proceedings under Title IV of ERISA to terminate or to
cause a trustee to be appointed to administer any such, Plan or Plans or a
proceeding shall be instituted by a fiduciary of any such Plan or Plans against
the Parent Guarantor and such proceedings shall not have been dismissed within
thirty (30) days thereafter; or if a condition shall exist by reason of which
the PBGC would be entitled to obtain a decree adjudicating that any such Plan or
Plans must be terminated; or   

(k)      if any of the
Loan Documents shall for any reason cease to be in full force and effect in all
material respects; or   

(l)      a Change of
Control shall occur without the consent of the Agent and the Majority Lenders;
or   

(m)      all of the
following shall have occurred: (A) a Servicer Default shall have occurred; (B)
the Agent, acting at the direction of the Majority Lenders, shall have elected
to terminate the Servicer; and (C) a replacement servicer shall have not assumed
(or have been prohibited from assuming the obligations of the Servicer), despite
the commercially reasonable efforts of the Agent to locate and qualify a
replacement Servicer, the obligations of the Servicer within one hundred twenty
(120) days thereafter; or   

(n)      the Borrower is
required to register as an  investment company  within the meaning of
the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended; or   

(o)      a Class A
Default Level Asset Base Deficiency continues unremedied for thirty (30) days;
or   

(p)      a default in the
payment of any Agent Fees then due and payable, and the continuation of such
default for more than three (3) Business Days after such amounts shall have
become due and payable; or   

(q)      the failure of
the Agent to have a first priority perfected security interest in the Collateral
(excluding Permitted Liens) for an amount in excess of $500,000, unless cured or
waived by the Agent within fifteen (15) days; or   

(r)      the Parent
Guaranty shall be repudiated by the Parent Guarantor or otherwise terminated
(except in accordance with its terms) or rendered unenforceable prior to its
scheduled expiration or termination date; or   

(s)      the Aggregate
Note Principal Balance exceeds the Maximum Asset Base on any Payment Date.

SECTION 9.        REMEDIES .  

(a)      Upon the
occurrence of an Event of Default of a kind described in   Sections
8(g)   and   (h)  , any unused Commitments shall automatically
terminate and the then unpaid principal balance of, and accrued interest on, all
Notes and all other amounts then payable hereunder, if not already due, shall
immediately become and be due and payable, all without demand or notice to the
Borrower or other formalities, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the
Borrower.   

(b)      Upon the
occurrence of an Event of Default which is not of a kind described in
  Sections 8(g)   and   (h)  , the Agent may, with the
consent of the Majority Lenders, or shall, upon the request of the Majority
Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, terminate any unused Commitments and declare
the then unpaid principal balance of, and accrued interest on, all Notes (or any
portion thereof) and all other amounts owing to the Lenders and the Agent under
this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (or any portion thereof) to be due
and payable forthwith.   

(c)      In the event the
maturity of the Credit Loan shall have been accelerated pursuant to the
foregoing   Sections 9(a)   or   9(b)  , the Borrower will
cause the Gross Lease Revenue paid from and after such time to be paid directly
to the Agent under the Security Agreement, for the benefit of the Lenders and
the Agent.   

(d)      Subject to the
other limitations contained in this   Section 9   concerning the
exercise of remedies, any Lender or the Agent may proceed to protect its rights
by action at law, suit in equity or by any other appropriate measures, whether
for specific performance of any covenant or agreement contained herein or in any
other Loan Document and if the then unpaid principal balance of, and accrued
interest on, all Notes (or any portion thereof) and shall have become due, by
declaration or otherwise, to proceed to enforce the payment thereof or to
enforce any other legal or equitable right of such Person.   

(e)      Upon the consent
of the Majority Lenders, the Agent may, or, upon the request of the Majority
Lenders, the Agent shall, subject in each case to   Section 13.7  ,
proceed to enforce the rights of the Lenders and/or the Agent, and the Lenders
may direct the Agent to enforce the provisions of the Loan Documents authorizing
the sale or disposition of all or any of the property included in the Collateral
and, in its discretion, to exercise all or any of the other legal or equitable
rights or remedies which the Agent may have when the Agent shall have become
entitled to exercise remedies pursuant to the Loan Documents.   

(f)      If the Agent
shall exercise any or all available remedies pursuant to the terms of any Loan
Document, all moneys received by the Agent from the exercise of such remedies
and any other moneys at the time in the possession of the Agent and available
for distribution to the Lenders and/or the Agent shall be applied by the Agent
in the following manner:   

first , in or toward the payment of amounts
owing to the Agent (excluding any amounts payable to Fortis Capital Corp. in its
capacity as a Lender) for fees and disbursements paid or owing by the Agent to
third parties for which the Agent is entitled to reimbursement or
indemnification pursuant to this Agreement; provided, however, that the
aggregate amount paid to the Agent pursuant to this clause  first  shall
not exceed $75,000 in any calendar year without the prior consent of the
Majority Lenders;   

second ,
in or toward the reimbursement of amounts expended by each of the Lenders in accordance
with the provisions of Section 13.7 of this Agreement; and   

third , in or toward the payment of the amounts
set forth in clause (III) of Section 2.18(b) hereof.   

(g)      This Agreement
and each other Loan Document may be enforced against the Borrower and the Parent
Guarantor by the Agent as agent of each of the Lenders, if so instructed,
without the necessity of joining any or all of them as parties in the
enforcement proceedings.   

(h)      All of the
amounts to be paid to the Agent by the Borrower pursuant to   Section
9(c)   and all interest and other amounts accrued thereon, shall be held
as cash security in a cash collateral account (the    Cash Collateral
Account   ), to be applied upon the Agent s becoming entitled to
exercise remedies pursuant to any of the Loan Documents, for the benefit of the
Lenders and the Agent, against the Obligations in such manner as shall be
provided in   Section 9(f)   of this Agreement or in such other
provisions of this Agreement as may be applicable or as the Agent shall
otherwise, with the consent of the Majority Lenders, determine. The Cash
Collateral Account shall be maintained in the name of, and under the sole
dominion and control of, the Agent, and the Borrower hereby pledges to the
Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, and grants to the Agent, for the benefit
of the Lenders a security interest in, as security for the Obligations, any such
Cash Collateral Account and all amounts from time to time held therein,
including all interest and other amounts accrued thereon.   

(i)      As a separate
stipulation independent from anything else herein contained, the Agent is hereby
authorized, without notice to or any consent of the Borrower and without
prejudice to any other right or remedy which the Agent might have from time to
time or at any time or times while an Event of Default exists, without
restrictions, to debit all or any of the Cash Collateral Account and
appropriate, set-off or apply all or any part of the sums standing to the credit
thereto towards the payment or discharge of any of the Obligations in accordance
with the provisions of Section 9(f) hereof, and for the purposes of such
appropriation or application, to transfer the whole or any part of the sums
standing to the credit of the Cash Collateral Account to any of the offices of
the Agent in any country whatsoever.   

(j)      The arrangements
regarding all of or any part of the Cash Collateral Account shall not constitute
a debt of the Agent due or payable to the Borrower and, accordingly, the
Borrower shall at no time be entitled to withdraw any sum standing to its credit
in the Cash Collateral Account until all of the Obligations have been paid in
full.   

(k)      The Agent shall
be permitted to invest from time to time any amounts on deposit in the Cash
Collateral Account in certificates of deposit of prime commercial banks (having
a maturity of fewer than 30 days). Upon the request of the Borrower, such
amounts may be invested in other securities issued by any commercial bank
acceptable to Majority Lenders in the ordinary course of its business;
 provided  that all actions shall have been taken, and all such documents
in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent, including an opinion
of counsel, shall have been delivered to the Agent as it, in its sole
discretion, shall deem reasonably necessary or advisable in order to assure the
Agent that it, on behalf of the Lenders, shall have a duly perfected,
first-priority lien, charge and security interest in and to such securities and
the proceeds thereof.   

   SECTION 10.        NOTICE
AND WAIVERS OF DEFAULT .  

Section 10.1         Notice of
Default  .  If any Lender shall give any notice or take any
other action in respect of a claimed Default (whether or not constituting an
Event of Default) under this Agreement, the Borrower shall forthwith give
written notice thereof to the Agent, describing the notice or action and the
nature of the claimed Default.   

Section 10.2         Waivers of
Default  .  Any Default or Event of Default may be waived as
provided in  Section 20 . The Agent shall notify the Borrower in writing of
any waiver granted hereunder. Any Default or Event of Default so waived shall be
deemed to have been cured and to be not continuing and to not have occurred for
purposes of the Loan Documents, and upon such waiver the Borrower, and each of
the Lenders shall be restored to their respective positions prior to the
existence of the Default or Event of Default, whether or not acceleration of the
maturity of the Notes shall have occurred pursuant to
 Section 9 . No such waiver shall extend to or affect any subsequent or other Default
or Event of Default or impair any rights consequent thereon. Notwithstanding anything in
this  Section 10  to the contrary, the Agent and the Lenders shall not be in any way
obligated or required to grant any waiver and the decision to grant any waiver shall be in
the sole discretion of the Lenders.   

   SECTION 11.        SET OFF .  

In
addition to, and not in limitation of, any rights granted by applicable law, and
regardless of the adequacy of any collateral, during the continuance of an Event of
Default, any deposits or other sums credited by or due from any Lender to the Parent
Guarantor or the Borrower may, without notice to the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower
(which is hereby expressly waived), be set off against any and all liabilities, direct or
indirect, absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter rising,
of the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower to such Lender. Each Lender agrees with the other
Lenders that if an amount to be set off is to be applied to any Indebtedness of the Parent
Guarantor or the Borrower to any such Lender, whether Indebtedness evidenced by any of the
Notes or due under this Agreement or otherwise arising, such amount shall be applied
ratably to all such indebtedness (except to the extent not permitted by the terms of any
agreement or instrument evidencing the same). Each Lender further agrees with the other
Lenders that if such Lender shall both (a) receive from either the Parent Guarantor or the
Borrower or from any other source whatsoever, whether by voluntary payment, exercise of
the right of set-off, counterclaim, cross action, or enforcement of any claim evidenced by
the Notes, this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or by proof thereof in bankruptcy,
reorganization, liquidation, receivership or similar proceedings, or otherwise, and (b)
retain and apply to the payment of the amounts owing with respect to the Notes or of any
amounts due to any such Lender under this Agreement or any other Loan Document any amount
which is in excess of its ratable portion of the payments received by all of the Lenders,
then such Lender shall make such disposition and arrangements with the other Lenders with
respect to such excess, either by way of distribution until the amount of such excess has
been exhausted, assignment of claims, subrogation or otherwise, as shall result in each
such Lender receiving in respect of its Notes and the amounts due any such Lender under
this Agreement or any other Loan Document its ratable share of all such payments.   

Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Section 11, any set-off rights exercisable by the Agent or any
Lender hereunder against the Parent Guarantor or any of its property shall be subject to
the Aggregate Maximum Guaranteed Payment (as such term is defined in the Parent Guaranty).   

   SECTION 12.        SECURITY AND DISCHARGE .  

(a)      The Obligations
shall be secured by the Parent Guaranty and the Security Agreement. The
execution and delivery of the Parent Guaranty and each of the Security Documents
shall constitute a condition precedent to the execution and delivery of this
Agreement.   

(b)     
           Full Discharge .   

(i)      Subject to
Section 9 of the Security Agreement, upon payment in full of the principal of
and interest on all Notes issued hereunder and all other amounts owing to the
Agent, the Lender or to any person under this Credit Agreement and all
Commitments shall have been terminated, this Credit Agreement and the Security
Agreement shall be discharged and the security interest of the Agent in the
Containers and the Related Assets shall be terminated.    

(ii)      In connection
with the discharge of this Credit Agreement and the release of the Collateral,
the Agent shall, at the expense of the Borrower, promptly after request therefor
by the Borrower, remit to the Borrower the then remaining items of the
Collateral and execute and deliver to the Borrower or authorize the filing by
the Borrower of any financing statements prepared by the Borrower evidencing
such discharge and release.    

(c)       Partial
Discharge . Upon any prepayment of the Notes in accordance with this
Agreement, at the request of the Borrower, the Agent shall remit to the Borrower
appropriate documentation evidencing the partial release of Collateral, so long
as (w) the requested release would not give rise to a Default, an Early
Amortization Event, a Servicer Default or an Event of Default, (x) the requested
release would not result in either a Class A Asset Base Deficiency or a Class B
Asset Base Deficiency, (y) a Default, an Early Amortization Event, a Servicer
Default or an Event of Default is not then continuing, and (z) the Borrower
shall use no adverse selection procedures in selecting the Collateral to be
released, and the Agent shall authorize the filing by the Borrower of any
financing statements prepared by the Borrower evidencing such partial discharge
and release.   

   SECTION 13.        THE AGENT .  

Section 13.1      
  Appointment  .  Each Lender hereby irrevocably designates
and appoints Fortis Capital Corp. as the Agent for such Person under this
Agreement, and each of the other Loan Documents, and each Lender hereby
irrevocably authorizes Fortis Capital Corp., as the Agent for such Lender, to
execute amendments to the Loan Documents (to the extent that such amendment has
been approved by the requisite number of Lenders in accordance with the
provisions of the Loan Documents) and to take such action on its behalf under
the provisions of the Loan Documents and to exercise such powers and perform
such duties as are expressly delegated to the Agent by the terms thereof,
together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto including,
without limitation, the receipt from a Lender and remittance to the Borrower of
any Credit Loan to be advanced by such Credit Lender in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.1 hereof. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary
elsewhere in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, the Agent shall not have
any duties or responsibilities except those expressly set forth herein or
therein, or any fiduciary relationship with any Lender, and no implied
covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall
be read into this Agreement or any other Loan Document or otherwise exist
against the Agent.   

Section 13.2         Delegation of
Duties  .  The Agent may execute any of its duties under this
Agreement or the other Loan Documents by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact
and shall be entitled to advice of counsel concerning all matters pertaining to
such duties. The Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct
of any agents or attorneys-in-fact selected by it in good faith.   

Section 13.3         Exculpatory
Provisions  .  Neither the Agent nor any shareholders, officers,
directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates of the Agent shall
be (a) liable for any action lawfully taken or omitted to be taken in good faith
by it or such Person under or in connection with this Agreement or any other
Loan Document (except for its or such Person s own gross negligence or
willful misconduct or, in the case of the Agent, simple negligence in the
handling of money or funds received by the Agent in accordance with the terms of
the Loan Documents), or (b) responsible in any manner to any of the Lenders for
any recitals, statements, representations or warranties made by the Parent
Guarantor or the Borrower or any officer thereof contained in this Agreement or
any other Loan Document, or by any party in any certificate, report, statement
or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by the Agent under
or in connection with, this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or for the
value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of
this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or for any failure of the Borrower or
the Parent Guarantor to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder. The
Agent shall not be under any obligation to any Lender to ascertain or to inquire
as to the observance or performance of any of the agreements contained or
conditions of, this Agreement or any Loan Document or to inspect the properties,
books or records of the Borrower. The Agent shall not be required to initiate or
conduct any litigation or collection proceedings hereunder, and shall not be
responsible for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it hereunder or under
any other document or instrument referred to or provided for herein or in
connection herewith, except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.
The Agent shall not be deemed to have fiduciary obligation to any of the
Lenders.   

Section 13.4         Reliance by
Agent  .  The Agent shall be entitled to rely, and shall be
fully protected in relying, on any writing, resolution, notice, consent,
certificate, affidavit, letter, cablegram, telegram, telecopy, telex or teletype
message, statement, order or other document or conversation believed by it to be
genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person
or Persons and upon advice and statements of all counsel (including counsel to
the Borrower and/or Parent Guarantor to the extent such counsel so comments in
writing), Independent Accountants and other experts selected by the Agent. The
Agent may deem and treat the named payee of any Note as the owner thereof for
all purposes unless a written notice of assignment, negotiation or transfer
thereof shall have been filed with the Agent. The Agent shall be fully justified
in failing or refusing to take action under this Agreement or any other Loan
Document unless it shall first receive such advice or concurrence of the
Majority Lenders as it deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its
satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense which may
be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action. The
Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from
acting, under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents in accordance with a
request of the Majority Lenders (or such other percentage of the Lenders as
required by the provisions of this Agreement), and such request and any action
taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all Lenders and
all future holders of the Notes.   

Section 13.5         Notice of
Default  .  The Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or
notice of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default hereunder unless
(i) the Agent has received notice from a Lender or the Borrower referring
to this Agreement, describing such Default or Event of Default and stating that
such notice is a  notice of default  or (ii) an officer of the
Agent having responsibility for the transaction set forth in this Agreement
shall have actual knowledge of the occurrence of an Event of Default. In the
event that the Agent receives such a notice or otherwise obtains actual
knowledge of the existence of an Event of Default, the Agent shall give notice
thereof to the Lenders and consult with the Lenders with respect the action to
be taken. The Agent shall take such action with respect to such Default or Event
of Default as shall be reasonably directed by the Majority Lenders or such other
percentage of the Lenders as is expressly set forth in this Agreement, provided
that unless and until the Agent shall have received such directions, the Agent
may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking
such action, with respect to such Default or Event of Default as it shall deem
advisable in the best interests of the Lenders.   

Section 13.6      
  Non-Reliance on Agent and Other Lenders  .  Each Lender
expressly acknowledges that neither the Agent nor any officers, directors,
employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates of the Agent has made any
representations or warranties to it and that no action by the Agent hereinafter
taken, including any review of the affairs of the Borrower or the Parent
Guarantor shall be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by the
Agent to any Lender. Each Lender represents to the Agent that it has,
independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender, and based
on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own
appraisal of and investigation into the business, operations, property,
financial and other condition and credit-worthiness of the Borrower and the
Parent Guarantor and made its own decision to make its Credit Loans hereunder
and enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also represents that it will,
independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender, and based
on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time,
continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or
not taking, or directing, any action under this Agreement or any other Loan
Document, and to make such investigation as it deems necessary to inform itself
as to the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and
credit-worthiness of the Borrower. Except for notices, reports and other
documents expressly required to be furnished to the Lenders by the Agent
hereunder, the Agent shall not have any duty or responsibility to provide any
Lender with any credit or other information concerning the business, operations,
property, financial and other condition or credit-worthiness of the Borrower
which may come into the possession of the Agent or any officers, directors,
employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates of the Agent.   

Section 13.7     
 Indemnification .    

(a)      Each of the
Lenders (or, in the case of a Conduit Lender, its managing agent) agrees to
indemnify the Agent in its capacity as such (to the extent not reimbursed by the
Borrower and without limiting the obligation of the Borrower to do so), ratably
according to the principal balances of their respective Notes on the date on
which indemnification is sought under this Section, from and against any and all
liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits,
costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind whatsoever which may at any time
(including without limitation at any time following the payment of the Notes) be
imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Agent (including any Lender) in
any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement, or any documents
contemplated by or referred to herein, and the transactions contemplated hereby
or thereby or any action taken or omitted by the Agent under or in connection
with any of the foregoing,  provided  that no Lender shall be liable for
the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages,
penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting
from the Agent s gross negligence or willful misconduct or, in the case of
the handling of money or funds received by the Agent in accordance with the
terms of the Loan Documents, simple negligence. The agreements in this
subsection shall survive the payment of the Notes and all other amounts payable
hereunder.   

(b)      The Agent shall
not be required to expend any of its own money to make up the full amount of any
Credit Loan requested by the Borrower hereunder, or otherwise or incur any
expense as a consequence of the failure of any Lender to make available to the
Agent any Credit Loan which the Lenders have become obliged to make hereunder.
If such a failure should occur and the Agent shall nevertheless have advanced
money of its own or incur expense in order to make up the full amount of any
such Credit Loan, it shall be deemed to have done so at the request of any
Lender, which is in default, unless such Lender shall have previously notified
the Agent that it should not make such an advance or incur such an expense to
make good such failure, and in the absence of such prior notice, such Lender
shall be obliged to pay to the Agent on demand the amount expended by the Agent
out of its own funds plus any costs incurred by the Agent to carry such funds
while such Lender is in default to the Agent hereunder, all of which shall
constitute a loan by the Agent to such Lender which shall bear interest from the
date of the advance by the Agent at its cost of funds plus the Class A
Applicable Margin or Class B Applicable Margin, as the case may be, from day to
day on the Credit Loan with respect to which the advance or expenditure was
made. During the continuance of any such default as between the Agent and such
Lender, and notwithstanding anything elsewhere herein to the contrary expressed
or implied, the principal amount of indebtedness in respect of Credit Loans made
by such Lender in default shall be deemed to be reduced, so long as the default
continues, by the amount not remitted by it to the Agent to make up such
Lender s share of the amount of such Credit Loan and such principal amount
and interest thereon shall be deemed assigned to and collectible by the Agent
for its own account for application against the amount of its claim under the
preceding sentence.   

(c)      In the event
that the Agent does not receive from any Lender a payment which such Lender is
required by the terms hereof to make to the Agent and the Agent has made the
amount thereof available to the Borrower, as the intended recipient thereof, if
the Borrower repays the Agent the amount made available to it, the Borrower
shall be subrogated to the Agent s right to recover such amount from any
Lender which failed to make such required payment.   

Section 13.8         Failure to Act  .
  Except for action expressly required of the Agent hereunder, the
Agent shall in all cases be fully justified in failing or refusing to act
hereunder unless it shall receive further assurances to its satisfaction from
the Lenders of their indemnification obligations under  Section 13.7 
against any and all liability and expense that may be incurred by it by reason
of taking or continuing to take any such action.   

Section 13.9         The Agent in Its
Individual Capacity .  The Agent and its Affiliates may make loans to,
accept deposits from and generally engage in any kind of business with the
Borrower, and its Affiliates as though Fortis Capital Corp. were not the Agent
hereunder and Fortis Capital Corp. (any such successor) and its Affiliates may
accept fees and other consideration from the Borrower for services in connection
with this Agreement or otherwise without having to account for the same to the
Lenders. With respect to its Credit Loans made or renewed by it, and any Note
issued to it, the Agent shall have the same rights and powers under this
Agreement as any Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the
Agent, and the terms  Lender  and  Lenders  shall include
the Agent in its individual capacity.   

Section 13.10       Successor Agent .    

(a)      The Person
serving as the Agent under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents may
voluntarily resign as Agent upon thirty (30) days  notice to the Lenders
and the Borrower, or shall resign upon the written request of the Majority
Lenders (which, for this purpose, shall exclude any Credit Loans owing by the
Borrower to the Agent or any of its Affiliates) if the Agent has failed to
comply with the terms of this Agreement, with such written request also being
provided to the Borrower. If the Agent shall resign as Agent under this
Agreement, then the Majority Lenders shall appoint from among the Lenders a
successor agent which successor agent, whereupon such successor agent shall
succeed to the rights, powers and duties of the resigning Agent, and the term
 Agent  shall mean such successor agent effective upon its
appointment, and the former Agent s rights, powers and duties as Agent
shall be terminated, without any other or further act or deed on the part of
such former Agent or any of the parties to this Agreement, or any holders of the
Notes. If a successor Agent is not appointed before the end of such thirty (30)
day notice period, the resigning Agent shall continue to serve as Agent
hereunder for a limited period of time (not to exceed 15 days) beyond such
thirty (30) day notice period;  provided  that (i) the Borrower and the
Lenders diligently attempt to identify and appoint a successor Agent and (ii)
after the expiration of such thirty (30) day period, the Agent may petition a
court of competent jurisdiction to appoint a successor agent from among the
existing Lenders willing to serve in such capacity. No resignation of an Agent
shall become effective until such time as (i) a successor Agent has been
appointed and (ii) the retiring Agent shall have assigned to the successor Agent
all of its interest in the Collateral. After any retiring Agent s
resignation hereunder as Agent, the provisions of this   Section 13  
shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it
while it was the Agent under this Agreement.   

(b)      So long as both
the Class A Notes and the Class B Notes remain unpaid, the Person serving as the
Agent under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall, at the written
request of Class A Lenders representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the
Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balance, resign as the Agent solely with
respect to the Class A Lenders. Thereafter, Class A Lenders representing more
than fifty percent (50%) of the then Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balance
may appoint a different existing Class A Lender (that is not then fulfilling the
role of the Agent) to act as the representative solely of the Class A Lenders.
Upon such appointment, such Person shall act as the representative of the Class
A Lenders and shall be entitled to the protections afforded to the Agent
pursuant to Section 13.   

Section 13.11         Exercise of Remedies
Under Security Documents  .   Unless the Agent shall have
determined that immediate action is desirable in order to protect the interests
of the Lenders, the Agent shall consult with the Lenders before exercising any
remedies under the Security Documents and shall (subject to receiving
indemnification pursuant to
  Section 13.7  ) take such actions with respect thereto as shall be
reasonably directed by the Majority Lenders.   

Section 13.12       Standard of Care .    

In
performing its duties and functions hereunder, the Agent will exercise the same degree of
care which it normally exercises in making and handling loans in which it alone is
interested, but it does not assume further responsibility.   

Section 13.13       Dealing with the Lenders .    

(a)      The Agent may at
all times deal solely with the several Lenders for all purposes of this
Agreement and the protection, enforcement and collection of the Notes, including
the acceptance and reliance upon any certificate, consent or other document of
such Lenders and the division of payments in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement, notwithstanding possession by the Agent of actual knowledge that any
Lender has sold a participation in Credit Loans made or to be made by it
hereunder to another Person.   

(b)      Promptly upon
receipt thereof (or, such other time as shall be set forth in this Agreement or
the other Loan Documents), the Agent shall send to each Lender a copy of all
financial statements, certificates, notices or other reports delivered to the
Agent pursuant to the terms of the Loan Documents.   

Section 13.14       Duties Not to be Increased .    

The
duties and liabilities of the Agent shall not be increased without the written consent of
the Agent.   

Section 13.15       Performance of Obligations .    

The
Agent agrees to perform its obligations set forth in the Servicing Agreement in accordance
with the terms thereof.   

Section 13.16     
 Appointment of a Separate Agent .    

So
long as an Event of Default shall have occurred and then be continuing, Class A Lenders
representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the then Aggregate Class A Note Principal
Balance may appoint an existing Class A Lender (that is not then fulfilling the role of
the Agent) to act as the representative solely of the Class A Lenders. Upon such
appointment, such representative (and not the Agent) shall act as the representative of
the Class A Lenders and shall be entitled to the protections afforded to the Agent
pursuant to Section 13.   

   SECTION 14.      
 EXPENSES AND INDEMNITIES .  

(a)      Whether or not
the transactions contemplated hereby shall be consummated, the Borrower agrees
to pay: (a) the cost of producing and reproducing this Agreement and other
instruments mentioned herein; (b) the reasonable fees, expenses and
disbursements of the Agent and its counsel (as well as any outside counsel for
the Lenders) incurred in connection with the preparation, negotiation and
closing of this Agreement and other instruments mentioned herein, each funding
hereunder, and all amendments, modifications, approvals, consents or waivers
hereto, thereto, hereunder or thereunder, and (c) all reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses (including attorneys  fees and costs) incurred by the Agent and by
each Lender in connection with (i) the enforcement of this Agreement, the Loan
Documents and the Notes against the Borrower and/or the Parent Guarantor or the
administration thereof after the occurrence and during the continuance of a
Default or Event of Default, and (ii) in connection with any workout, amendment,
modification, approval, consent or waiver requested by the Borrower or Parent
Guarantor, litigation, proceeding or dispute (other than one between two or more
Lenders and other than one in which the Borrower commences proceedings against
the Lenders or any Lender and prevails therein), whether arising hereunder or
otherwise, in any way related to the Agent s or any Lender s
relationship with the Borrower hereunder. The amount of all such expenses shall,
if not paid within 30 days of receipt of invoice, until paid, bear interest at
the rate applicable to principal hereunder (including any Default Rate) and be
an obligation secured by any collateral. After the occurrence and during the
continuance of an Event of Default, the Borrower shall pay the costs of any
field audit examinations that the Agent or any Lender may conduct in its
discretion; provided, however, that the Agent, each Lender and their duly
authorized representatives, attorneys and accountants shall use reasonable
commercial efforts to share information with one another and otherwise cooperate
with on another to limit the number of audits per annum and minimize the
expenses incurred by the Servicer in connection with any audits or inspections
hereunder.   

(b)      The Borrower
further agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Indemnified Parties from and
against any and all damages, losses, settlement payments, obligations,
liabilities, claims, actions or causes of action, and reasonable costs and
expenses incurred, suffered, sustained or required to be paid by an Indemnified
Party by reason of, or resulting from the use of the proceeds of any Credit Loan
or any litigation, proceeding, claim or dispute commenced or threatened against
the Agent, or any Lender arising out of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement or any other Loan Document unless such damages, losses, settlement
payments, obligations or liabilities were caused by the gross negligence or
willful misconduct of such Indemnified Party. In any investigation, proceeding
or litigation, or the preparation therefor, the Agent and each Lender shall be
entitled to select its own counsel and, in addition to the foregoing indemnity,
the Borrower agrees to pay promptly the reasonable fees and expenses of such
counsel. The covenants of this   Section 14   shall survive payment or
satisfaction of payment of amounts owing with respect to the Notes.   

(c)      Each of the
Parent Guarantor and the Borrower hereby expressly acknowledges that it has
been, and will continue to be, solely responsible (and without reliance in any
way on the Agent or any Lender) for all tax planning and all consequences
associated with, or that in any way result from, the transactions described in
this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and that it has been advised by
independent professional advisors of its choosing as to such structure and
consequences. Without limiting the foregoing, each of the Borrower and the
Parent Guarantor, on a joint and several basis, agree to indemnify and hold
harmless each of the Indemnified Parties from and against any and all damages,
losses, settlement payments, obligations, liabilities, claims, actions or causes
of action, and reasonable costs and expenses incurred, suffered, sustained or
required to be paid by an Indemnified Party by reason of or resulting from any
litigation, proceeding, claim or dispute commenced or threatened against such
Indemnified Party arising out of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
and the other Loan Documents; provided, however, that nothing in this Section
14(c) shall be interpreted to provide any recourse to the Parent Guarantor for
the credit risk of the lessees under the Leases beyond that level of recourse
set forth in the Parent Guaranty.   

   SECTION 15.      
 SURVIVAL OF COVENANTS, ETC .  

All
covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made herein, in the other Loan
Documents and in any certificates or other papers delivered by or on behalf of the
Borrower and the Parent Guarantor, pursuant hereto shall survive the making by each Lender
of Credit Loans, as herein contemplated and shall continue in full force and effect so
long as amount due under this Agreement or the Notes remains outstanding and unpaid.
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement or implied by law to the contrary, the
indemnification agreements of the Borrower set forth in   Section 2   of
this Agreement shall survive the payment of amounts due under this Agreement or the Notes.
All statements of fact relating to the Borrower contained in any certificate or other
paper delivered to the Agent or to any Lender at any time after the date hereof by or on
behalf of the Borrower pursuant hereto or in connection with the transactions contemplated
hereby shall constitute representations and warranties by the Borrower and the Parent
Guarantor hereunder.   

   SECTION 16.      
 PARTIES IN INTEREST; SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS .  

(a)      Whenever in this
Agreement any of the parties hereto is referred to, such reference shall be
deemed to include the successors and assigns of such party; and all covenants,
promises and agreements by or on behalf of the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor,
and the Servicer, or the Lenders and the Agent shall bind and inure to the
benefit of their respective successors and assigns.   

(b)      Any Lender may
(i) assign to (A) in the case of a Conduit Lender, its Credit Support Party so
long as such Credit Support Party is not a Competitor or a Prohibited
Institution, or (B) one or more Affiliates of the Lender all or a portion, or
(ii) assign to one or more other assignees that is neither a Competitor or a
Prohibited Institution (each, an   Assignee  ) all or a portion
(not less than $15,000,000 original principal amount, or if less than
$15,000,000, such Lender s entire Credit Loan), in each case, of its
interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan
Documents, including all or a portion of such Lender s Credit Loan(s), at
the time made by or owing to it,  provided  that (i) except in the case of
an assignment by a Conduit Lender to its Credit Support Party, the parties to
each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent an instrument of
assignment and acceptance substantially in the form of   Exhibit I  
(an  Assignment and Acceptance ); (ii) such assignment shall not result in
the incurrence of increased costs, expenses or taxes that are otherwise
reimbursable by the Borrower in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents;
and (iii) after giving effect to such assignment the assigning Lender shall
retain (if it retains any portion) a minimum of $15,000,000 original principal
amount of its interests, rights, and obligations under this Agreement and the
other Loan Documents. Upon acceptance and recording in the Register pursuant to
paragraph (d) of this   Section 16  , from and after the effective
date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance: (i) the Assignee (if not
already a Lender hereunder) shall be a party hereto and, to the extent provided
in such Assignment and Acceptance, have the same rights and obligations as a
Lender under this Agreement, and the terms  Lender  and
 Lenders  thereafter shall include such Assignee, and (ii) the
assigning Lender shall be released from any future obligations under this
Agreement with respect to the interest assigned,  provided  that in the
case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of a
Lender s rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall
continue to be entitled to the benefits of the indemnification provisions of
  Sections 2 and 14   hereof, as well as to any fees or amounts
accrued for its account hereunder and not yet paid and shall continue to be
responsible for obligations and liabilities incurred prior to such assignment.
The Borrower shall upon request of the Assignee and delivery of the assigning
Lender s Note execute new Notes in appropriate denominations and class to
evidence the Credit Loans after an assignment and shall deliver such new Notes
to the Assignee and the assigning Lender (to the extent it retains any portion
of the Credit Loans) in exchange for the return of the Notes that previously
evidenced such Credit Loans.   

(c)      [Section
intentionally omitted]   

(d)      The Agent shall
maintain a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register
for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Assignees, and the
principal amount of the Credit Loans owing to each Assignee from time to time
(the  Register ). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive in the
absence of manifest error and the Borrower, each Lender, and any Assignees may
treat each person whose name is recorded in the Register as an Assignee for all
purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by
the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor, the Lenders, and any Assignee, at any
reasonable time upon reasonable prior notice.   

(e)      If, pursuant to
this   Section 16  , any interest in this Agreement is assigned to any
Assignee that is not incorporated or organized under the laws of the United
States or a state thereof, such Assignee shall agree that, if requested in
writing by the Borrower or the Agent, it shall deliver to the Borrower and the
Agent: (i) two valid, duly completed copies of United States Internal Revenue
Service ( IRS ) Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI or 4224 or successor applicable form,
as the case may be, certifying in each case that such Assignee is entitled to
receive payments made under this Agreement and the Notes without deduction or
withholding of any United States federal income taxes, and (ii) a valid, duly
completed IRS Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI or successor applicable form, as the case
may be, to establish an exemption from United States backup withholding tax.
Each Assignee which delivers to the Agent a Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI pursuant to
the preceding sentence further undertakes to deliver to the Borrower and the
Agent two copies of the Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI, or successor applicable forms, or
other manner of certification, as the case may be, on or before the date that
any such form expires or becomes obsolete or otherwise is required to be
resubmitted as a condition to obtaining an exemption from withholding tax or
after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recent form
previously delivered by it to the Borrower and the Agent, and such extensions or
renewals thereof as may reasonably be requested by the Borrower or the Agent,
certifying in the case of a Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI that such Assignee is entitled
to receive payments made under this Agreement and the Notes without deduction or
withholding of any United States federal income taxes, unless any change in
treaty, law or regulation or official interpretation thereof has occurred prior
to the date on which any such delivery would otherwise be required which renders
all such forms inapplicable or which would prevent such Assignee from duly
completing and delivering any such letter or form with respect to it and such
Assignee advises the Agent that it is not capable of receiving payments without
any deduction or withholding of United States federal income tax, and in the
case of a Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI, establishing an exemption from United States
backup withholding tax.   

(f)      Each Lender may
sell to one or more Persons, so long as such Person is not a Competitor or a
Prohibited Institution (each, a  Participant ) a participation of such
Lender s interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the
other Loan Documents (including all or a portion of the Credit Loan(s)),
 provided  that: (i) such Lender shall remain solely responsible for the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, (ii) such Participant shall
be entitled to the benefit of the indemnification and cost protection provisions
in   Section 2   and, if the Borrower shall have been notified by the
Participant that it is a Participant, the right to set off contained in
  Section 11  ; and (iii) the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders
shall continue to deal solely and directly with such selling Lender in
connection with its rights and obligations under this Agreement. All amounts
payable by the Borrower hereunder shall be determined as if that Lender had not
sold such participation. At any time or from time to time, upon written request
to a Lender by the Borrower, such Lender shall provide the Borrower a written
statement of whether it has sold any participation in its interests, rights and
obligations hereunder and, if so, the amount of such participation sold and the
identity of the purchaser or purchasers.   

(g)      Notwithstanding
anything else to the contrary contained herein, no participation or assignment
shall, without the consent of the Borrower, require the Borrower to (i) register
or qualify the Credit Loans, the Notes or any assignments thereof or
participation therein under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Blue
Sky law of any state or (ii) indemnify any Assignee or Participant against (or
protect, defend or keep any such Person harmless from) any indemnification or
cost protection claim pursuant to the provisions of   Sections 2.8, 2.9,
2.16, 2.17    or  14   in excess of the amount that would have
been payable by the Borrower had the assignment or participation, as the case
may be, not occurred.   

(h)      The Borrower
shall not assign, transfer or delegate any of its rights and duties under this
Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Any purported assignment, transfer or
delegation in violation of the prior sentence shall be null and void.

(i)      Any Lender,
Assignee or Participant may at any time pledge or assign all or any portion of
its rights under this Agreement to a Federal Reserve Bank.   

(j)      No Lender may
assign, or sell a participation interest in, any of its rights under this
Agreement, the Notes, or any other Loan Document to the Borrower or any of the
Borrower s Affiliates or to any Prohibited Institution.   

   SECTION 17.      
 NOTICES, ETC .  

Except
as otherwise expressly provided herein, all notices and other communications made or
required to be given pursuant to this Agreement, the Notes, the Security Agreement, Parent
Guaranty, the Performance Guaranty or the Pledge Agreement must be in writing shall be
deemed to have been given: when delivered by hand, two Business Days after being properly
deposited in the mails postage prepaid, when sent by telex, answer-back received, or fax
transmission, or the next Business Day after being delivered to the telegraph company or
overnight courier, addressed to such party at its address indicated below (or at such
other address as any party may from time to time specify by notice to the other parties):   

(c) 
 If to the Lenders, at the addresses set forth below
their signature lines on this Agreement; and 

SECTION 18.        MISCELLANEOUS .  

This
Agreement and the Notes shall be deemed to be contracts under the laws of the
State of New York and shall for all purposes be construed in accordance with and
governed by the laws of said State (including Section 5-1401 and 5-1402 of the
General Obligations Law, but otherwise without giving effect to any conflicts of
laws provisions contained therein). The rights and remedies herein expressed are
cumulative and not exclusive of any other rights which the Agent or any Lender
would otherwise have. Any instrument required by any of the provisions hereof to
be in the form annexed hereto as an exhibit shall be substantially in such form,
with such changes therefrom, if any, as may be approved by the Agent and the
Borrower. The invalidity or unenforceability of any one or more phrases, clauses
or sections of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of
the remaining portions of it. The captions in this Agreement are for convenience
of reference only and shall not define or limit the provisions hereof. This
Agreement and any amendment hereof may be executed in several counterparts and
by each party on a separate counterpart, each of which when so executed and
delivered shall be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one
instrument. In proving this Agreement it shall not be necessary to produce or
account for more than one such counterpart signed by the party against whom
enforcement is sought.   

   SECTION 19.      
 ENTIRE AGREEMENT, ETC .  

This
Agreement, together with the other Loan Documents, expresses the entire
understanding of the parties with respect to the transactions contemplated
hereby. Neither this Agreement nor any term hereof may be changed, waived,
discharged or terminated orally or in writing, except as provided in
  Section 20  .   

   SECTION 20.      
 CONSENTS, AMENDMENTS, WAIVERS, ETC .  

No
amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, the Class A Notes, the
Class B Notes or any other Loan Document, nor consent to any departure by the
Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in
writing and signed by the Agent, the Majority Lenders and Borrower, and such
waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the
specific purpose for which given. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment,
waiver or consent shall, without the prior written consent of each Lender
affected thereby, do any of the following: (i) waive any of the conditions
specified in   Sections 4 or 5  , or any Events of Default set forth
in   Sections 8(g)   or   (h)  ; (ii) subject any of the
Lenders to any additional Obligations including, without limitation, obligating
any Lender to restore its Commitment to make additional Credit Loans following
the termination of its Commitment after the occurrence of either an Event of
Default or any Early Amortization Event; (iii) reduce the principal of or
interest owing on any Note, or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder; (iv)
postpone any date fixed for any payment in respect of, or waive any default in
the payment of any, principal of or interest on any Credit Loans or any fees or
other amounts payable hereunder, (v) change the number of Lenders which shall be
required for the Lenders, or any of them, to take any action hereunder; (vi)
amend any of   Section 2.5  ,   Section 2.7(b)  ,
  Section 2.7(c)  , the subordination provisions set forth in
 Section 2.11  hereof, the relative payment priorities of amounts payable
to the Class A Lenders and the Class B Lenders pursuant to  Section 2.18 
hereof,   Section 16(h)   or this   Section 20  , (vii)
amend the definition of any of the terms  Majority Lenders ,
 Fair Market Value ,  Net Book Value ,  Finance Lease
Value ,  Eligible Container ,  Eligible Lease ,
 Conversion Date ,  Refinancing Event  or any defined term
used in any of the foregoing definitions; (viii) release all or any substantial
part of the Collateral from the Lien of the Security Agreement except in
accordance with the provisions of Section 7.12 hereof; (ix) release either the
Borrower or the Parent Guarantor from its obligations hereunder or under any of
the other Loan Documents; or (xi) permit the creation of any Lien on the
Collateral ranking prior to, or on parity with, the Lien created by the Security
Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing only the prior written consent of the
Agent shall be necessary for the approval of Key Officers. In addition, no
amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in
addition to the Lenders required to take such action, affect the rights or
duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document.   

   SECTION 21.      
 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL .  

THE
AGENT, THE LENDERS, THE BORROWER, AND THE PARENT GUARANTOR AGREE THAT NEITHER OF
THEM NOR ANY ASSIGNEE OR SUCCESSOR SHALL (A) SEEK A JURY TRIAL IN ANY LAWSUIT,
PROCEEDING, COUNTERCLAIM OR ANY OTHER ACTION BASED UPON, OR ARISING OUT OF, THIS
AGREEMENT, ANY LOAN DOCUMENT, ANY COLLATERAL OR THE DEALINGS OR THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN OR AMONG ANY OF THEM, OR (B) SEEK TO CONSOLIDATE ANY SUCH ACTION WITH
ANY OTHER ACTION IN WHICH A JURY TRIAL CANNOT BE OR HAS NOT BEEN WAIVED. THE
PROVISIONS OF THIS PARAGRAPH HAVE BEEN FULLY DISCUSSED BY THE AGENT, THE
LENDERS, THE BORROWER, AND THE PARENT GUARANTOR, AND THESE PROVISIONS SHALL BE
SUBJECT TO NO EXCEPTIONS. NEITHER THE AGENT, ANY LENDER, THE BORROWER, NOR THE
PARENT GUARANTOR HAS AGREED WITH OR REPRESENTED TO ANY OTHER PARTY THAT THE
PROVISIONS OF THIS PARAGRAPH WILL NOT BE FULLY ENFORCED IN ALL INSTANCES.

SECTION 22.      
 SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION; WAIVERS .   

THE
BORROWER AND THE PARENT GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY:   

(a)      SUBMIT FOR
THEMSELVES AND THEIR PROPERTY IN ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING
DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR
RECOGNITION AND ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT IN RESPECT THEREOF, TO THE
NON-EXCLUSIVE GENERAL JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
SITUATED IN NEW YORK COUNTY, THE COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND APPELLATE COURTS FROM ANY THEREOF;

(b)      CONSENT THAT ANY
SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE BROUGHT IN SUCH COURTS, AND WAIVE ANY OBJECTION
THAT THEY MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR
PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT OR THAT SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING WAS BROUGHT IN AN
INCONVENIENT FORUM AND AGREE NOT TO PLEAD OR CLAIM THE SAME;   

(c)      WAIVE PERSONAL
SERVICE OF ANY AND ALL PROCESS UPON EACH OF THEM AND AGREE THAT ALL SUCH SERVICE
OF PROCESS IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE EFFECTED BY MAILING A COPY
THEREOF BY REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED MAIL (OR ANY SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR FORM OF
MAIL), POSTAGE PREPAID, TO THE BORROWER OR THE PARENT GUARANTOR AT THEIR
ADDRESSES SET FORTH IN   SECTION 17   OR AT SUCH OTHER ADDRESS OF
WHICH THE AGENT SHALL HAVE BEEN NOTIFIED PURSUANT THERETO AND THAT SERVICE SO
MADE SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE COMPLETED UPON THE EARLIER OF ACTUAL RECEIPT OR THREE
BUSINESS DAYS AFTER THE SAME SHALL HAVE BEEN POSTED TO THE BORROWER S AND
THE PARENT GUARANTOR S ADDRESS AS SET FORTH IN
            SECTION 17  ;   

(d)      WAIVE ANY BOND
OR SECURITY WHICH MIGHT BE REQUIRED BY ANY COURT PRIOR TO ALLOWING THE AGENT TO
EXERCISE ANY REMEDIES SET FORTH HEREIN OR IN ANY OF THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS;

(e)      AGREE THAT
NOTHING HEREIN SHALL AFFECT THE RIGHT TO EFFECT SERVICE OF PROCESS IN ANY OTHER
MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW OR SHALL LIMIT OR OTHERWISE AFFECT THE RIGHT OF THE
AGENT TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING AGAINST THE BORROWER OR THE PARENT
GUARANTOR OR THEIR PROPERTY IN THE COURTS OF OTHER JURISDICTIONS;   

(f)      THE BORROWER
APPOINTS AND DESIGNATES INTERPOOL, INC., HAVING AN ADDRESS AT 633 THIRD AVENUE,
27TH FLOOR, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10017, ITS TRUE AND LAWFUL ATTORNEY-IN-FACT AND
DULY AUTHORIZED AGENT FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF ACCEPTING SERVICING OF LEGAL
PROCESS AND THE BORROWER AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON SUCH PARTY SHALL
CONSTITUTE PERSONAL SERVICE OF SUCH PROCESS ON THE BORROWER.   

   SECTION 23.        ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS .  

The
Borrower and the Parent Guarantor hereby acknowledges that:   

(a)      it has been
advised by counsel in the negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement
and the other Loan Documents;   

(b)      no Lender has
any fiduciary relationship with or fiduciary duty to the Borrower and/or the
Parent Guarantor arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or any of
the other documents, and the relationship between the Lender, the Borrower, and
the Parent Guarantor in connection herewith or therewith is solely that of
debtor and creditor; and   

(c)      no joint venture
is created hereby or by any other documents or otherwise exists by virtue of the
transactions contemplated hereby between the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor, and
the Lender.   

   SECTION 24.     
 CONFIDENTIALITY .   

The
confidentiality provisions of Section 16 of the Parent Guaranty are hereby incorporated by
reference  mutatis mutandis . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no
limitation is imposed with respect to disclosure of the tax treatment and tax structure of
the transactions contemplated hereby.   

SECTION 25.       CERTAIN SPECIAL
PROVISIONS .    

In
the ease of any Lender which is a commercial paper conduit and executes this Agreement in
such capacity (each, a   Conduit Lender  ), the following special
provisions shall apply:   

(A)  No claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any related
document, agreement or understanding (collectively, the   Operative
Documents  ) or any of the matters contemplated by any thereof shall be
had against the Conduit Lender, nor shall the Conduit Lender have any liability
or obligation under any Operative Document or any of the matters contemplated by
any thereof or in respect of any thereof, except solely to the extent of Excess
Funds, and to the extent not paid from Excess Funds and any obligation of
Conduit Lender shall be deemed no longer outstanding.  Excess Funds 
shall mean all available funds of the Conduit Lender which are in excess of such
portion of those funds as are needed to pay and discharge in full at maturity
all of its debts, duties, liabilities and obligations, including, without
limitation, all commercial paper, due or to become due within 368 days from the
date of the latest maturing commercial paper issued or to be issued by it. In
determining the liability of Conduit Lender in respect of any obligation
( Subject Obligation ) other than the face value of the Commercial
Paper, Conduit Lender is expressly agreed to have no liability of any kind with
respect to any such obligation (and any such obligation shall constitute a
 claim  for purposes of the United States Bankruptcy Code and any
analogous law, domestic or foreign as now or hereafter in effect) except solely
to the extent that the Conduit Lender has Excess Funds which pursuant to its
program collateral agreement are available to satisfy such obligations.

(B)  Each party hereto further irrevocably agrees that it will not initiate
against a Conduit Lender, or join with others in initiating against a Conduit
Lender, any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or analogous proceeding under
any law, domestic or foreign as now or hereafter in effect until the 368th day
following the payment in full at the maturity thereof of all Commercial Paper
issued or to be issued by Conduit Lender and of all its other debts, duties,
liabilities and obligations.   

(C)  No recourse shall be had for the payment of any amount owing in
respect of any obligation of, or claim against, the Conduit Lender arising out
of or based upon any Operative Document against J H Management Corporation or
against any stockholder, employee, officer, director or incorporator of the
Conduit Lender or J H Management Corporation; provided, however, that the
foregoing shall not relieve any such Person or entity from any liability they
might otherwise have arising from his, her or its willful misconduct or
intentional misrepresentation.   

(D)  Except as set forth in Section 16(b), 16(f) or 16(g) hereof, no
provision hereof or of any other Operative Document shall restrict in any way
the ability of the Conduit Lender to transfer its Loans to any Credit Support
Party.   Credit Support Party   means any Person providing
pursuant to any liquidity, asset purchase or other contractual obligation (each,
a   Credit Support Agreement  ) liquidity, credit or cash
collateral support in respect of the commercial paper issued by the Conduit
Lender to fund its Loans.   

(E)  Any action which may be taken by, or notice given by or to, such
Conduit Lender under any of the Operative Documents shall be sufficient and
effective if taken by, or given by or to, the managing agent (the
  Managing Agent  ) in respect of such Conduit Lender executing
this Agreement as such.   

   SECTION 26.       DOLLAR DENOMINATED
TRANSACTION .   

The
parties hereto (A) acknowledge that the matters contemplated by this Agreement are part of
an international financing transaction and (B) hereby agree that (i) specification and
payment of Dollars is of the essence, (ii) Dollars shall be the currency of account in the
case of all obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents unless otherwise
expressly provided herein or therein, (iii) the payment obligations of the parties under
this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be discharged by an amount paid in a
currency or in a place other than that specified with respect to such obligations, whether
pursuant to a judgment or otherwise, except to the extent actually received by the Person
entitled thereto and converted into Dollars by such Person (it being understood and agreed
that, if any transaction party shall so receive an amount in a currency other than
Dollars, it shall (A) if it is not the Person entitled to receive payment, promptly return
the same (in the currency in which received) to the Person from whom it was received or
(B) if it is the Person entitled to receive payment, either, in its sole discretion, (x)
promptly return the same (in the currency in which received) to the Person from whom it
was received or (y) subject to reasonable commercial practices, promptly cause the
conversion of the same into Dollars), (iv) to the extent that the amount so paid on prompt
conversion to Dollars under normal commercial practices does not yield the requisite
amount of Dollars, the obligee of such payment shall have a separate cause of action
against the party obligated to make the relevant payment for the additional amount
necessary to yield the amount due and owing under this Agreement and the other Loan
Documents, (v) if, for the purpose of obtaining a judgment in any court with respect to
any obligation under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, it shall be necessary to
convert to any other currency any amount in Dollars due thereunder and a change shall
occur between the rate of exchange applied in making such conversion and the rate of
exchange prevailing on the date of payment of such judgment, the obligor in respect of
such obligation will pay such additional amounts (if any) as may be necessary to insure
that the amount paid on the date of payment is the amount in such other currency which,
when converted into Dollars and transferred to New York City, New York, in accordance with
normal banking procedures, will result in realization of the amount then due in Dollars
and (vi) any amount due under this paragraph shall be due as a separate debt and shall not
be affected by or merged into any judgment being obtained for any other sum due under or
in respect of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.   

   SECTION 27.     
 LIMITATION ON DAMAGES .   

The
parties hereto agree that in the event of any legal or arbitral action, suit or proceeding
arising out of or relating to the Loan Documents, the Commitments, the Collateral, the use
or contemplated use of proceeds of any Credit Loan, the relationship of the Borrower, the
Parent Guarantor, the Agent, and the Lenders under the Loan Documents or any transaction
contemplated by the Loan Documents, the prevailing party or parties shall not be entitled
to an award of incidental, consequential or punitive damages; provided, however, that in
no event shall attorneys  fees and expenses be considered incidental, consequential
or punitive damages for purposes of this Section 28.   

   SECTION 28.      
 MARCH 15, 2005 CREDIT AGREEMENT .  

Each
of the Lenders, the Agent, and the Parent Guarantor acknowledges that the Third Amended
and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of March 15, 2005 among the Lenders, the Agent,
the Parent Guarantor and Interpool Container Funding, SRL (the  March 15, 2005 Credit
Agreement ), is being prepaid in full and that the Commitments (as such term is
defined in the March 15,2005 Credit Agreement) thereunder are being terminated on the
initial Funding Date under this Agreement, and each of the Lenders hereby waives the
notice requirement set forth in Section 2.7(a) of the March 15, 2005 Credit Agreement.   

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duty
authorized officers as of the day and year first written above.   

Borrower:  
INTERPOOL CONTAINER FUNDING II, SRL 

By:             

Name: 
        Title: 

Agent:  
FORTIS CAPITAL CORP., 
as Agent 
 
By:             

Name: 
        Title: 
 
By:             

Name: 
        Title: 

Parent Guarantor:  
INTERPOOL, INC. 

By:             

Name: 
        Title: 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 12
 interpool-ex1051_030906.htm
 EX-10.51

Exhibit 10.51 

EXECUTION VERSION   

GUARANTY     

THIS
GUARANTY (as amended, modified or supplemented in accordance with the terms
hereof, this   Guaranty  ), dated as of December 21, 2005 (the
 Closing Date ), is made by INTERPOOL, INC., a corporation organized
under the laws of the State of Delaware (together with its successors and its
permitted assigns, the   Parent Guarantor  ), for the benefit of
FORTIS CAPITAL CORP., as agent (in such capacity, the   Agent  )
and each financial institution which is now or may hereafter become a party to
the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2005 (as amended, modified or
supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms, the   Credit
Agreement  ), between Interpool Container Funding II, SRL, Interpool,
Inc., Fortis Capital Corp. and the other financial institutions from time to
time a party thereto (each, a   Lender   and collectively, the
  Lenders  ). The Agent and each Lender are referred to herein
individually as a   Beneficiary   and, collectively, as the
  Beneficiaries  .   

PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS    

WHEREAS , simultaneously with the execution of this Guaranty, Interpool
Container Funding II, SRL, a society with restricted liability organized and
existing under the Societies with Restricted Liabilities Act, 1995-7 of Barbados
(together with its successors and permitted assigns, the  Borrower ),
and various other Persons, are entering into the Credit Agreement pursuant to
which the lenders named therein will make Commitments available to the Borrower;

WHEREAS , it is a condition precedent to the entering into of the
transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement that the Parent Guarantor
shall have executed and delivered this Guaranty;   

WHEREAS , the Parent Guarantor, directly or indirectly, owns all of the
capital stock of the Borrower and will obtain substantial direct and indirect
benefit from the execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement and is willing
to provide this Guaranty on the terms and conditions set forth herein;  

NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the premises and other consideration,
the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged by the Parent
Guarantor, the Parent Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:   

SECTION 1.   Definitions . Capitalized terms used and not
otherwise defined herein (including those used in the preamble) shall have the
meaning assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.  

SECTION 2.   Guaranty .  

(a)  The Parent Guarantor hereby irrevocably, absolutely and
unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and as a guarantor of payment and
performance and not merely as surety or guarantor of collection, to the Agent
and each Lender, (i) the full and prompt payment by the Borrower when due of the
Obligations incurred by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement and the
other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party, strictly in accordance
with the terms of such Loan Documents, and (ii) the full and timely performance
of, and compliance with, each and every duty, agreement, undertaking, indemnity
and obligation of the Borrower under the Loan Documents strictly in accordance
with the terms thereof, in each case, however created, arising or evidenced,
whether direct or indirect, primary or secondary, absolute or contingent, joint
or several and whether now or hereafter existing or due or to become due (such
payment and other obligations described in clauses (i) and (ii) being referred
to herein as the   Liabilities    provided, however , that
the maximum aggregate amount of funds that may be paid by the Parent Guarantor
pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2(a) of this Guaranty (such maximum
aggregate amount, the   Aggregate Maximum Guaranteed Payment  )
through the entire term of this Guaranty, regardless of when claims are made,
whether multiple claims are accumulated or made individually and sequentially,
shall not exceed an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of an amount equal to the
sum, in each case measured as of the date on which a claim is made under this
Guaranty, of (i) the Aggregate Net Book Value and (ii) the Aggregate Finance
Lease Value;  provided, however , that in determining the Aggregate Maximum
Guaranteed Payment payable on any date of determination, credit shall be given
for amounts previously paid by Guarantor to Beneficiaries under this Guaranty in
respect thereof. The Parent Guarantor further acknowledges and agrees that, if a
Servicer Default has occurred and is then continuing, any Beneficiary may (i)
make a demand upon the Parent Guarantor pursuant to the terms of this Guaranty
in an amount not to exceed the Aggregate Maximum Guaranteed Payment and (ii)
apply the proceeds of such demand to reduce the unpaid principal balance of, and
accrued interest on, the loan outstanding under the Credit Agreement. 

(b)  Until such time as the Aggregate Class A Note Principal Balance
has been reduced to zero and the Commitments of all Class A Lenders have been
terminated, no Class B Lenders shall be entitled to demand payments from the
Parent Guarantor pursuant to the terms of this Guaranty. 

(c)  The Parent Guarantor further agrees to pay any and all costs and
expenses (including, without limitation, all reasonable fees and disbursements
of counsel) that may be paid or incurred by the Agent and/or one or more of the
Lenders in enforcing any rights with respect to, or collecting, any or all of
the Liabilities or enforcing any rights with respect to, or collecting against,
the Parent Guarantor hereunder together with interest at the Default Rate
specified in the Credit Agreement from the date when such expenses are so
incurred to the date of actual payment thereof. Any amounts payable by the
Parent Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2(b) shall not be
included in determining whether or not the Aggregate Maximum Guaranteed Payment
has been exceeded. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
liability of the Parent Guarantor hereunder shall extend to all amounts which
constitute part of the Liabilities and would be owed by the Borrower but for the
fact that such amounts are unenforceable or not allowable due to any
circumstance whatsoever or due to the existence of a bankruptcy, suspension of
payments, reorganization or similar proceeding involving the Borrower. 

SECTION 3.   Guaranty Absolute . This Guaranty shall constitute a
guaranty of payment and of performance and not of collection, and the Parent
Guarantor specifically agrees that it shall not be necessary, and that the
Parent Guarantor shall not be entitled to require, before or as a condition of
enforcing the obligations of the Parent Guarantor under this Guaranty or
requiring payment or performance of the Liabilities by the Parent Guarantor
hereunder, or at any time thereafter, that any Person: (i) file suit or proceed
to obtain or assert a claim for personal judgment against the Borrower or any
other Person that may be liable for any Liabilities; (ii) make any other effort
to obtain payment or performance of any Liabilities from the Borrower or any
other Person that may be liable for such Liabilities; (iii) foreclose against or
seek to realize upon the Collateral or any other security now or hereafter
existing for such Liabilities; (iv) exercise or assert any other right or remedy
to which such Person is or may be entitled in connection with any Liabilities or
any security or other guaranty therefor; or (v) assert or file any claim against
the assets of any other Person liable for any Liabilities. Notwithstanding
anything herein to the contrary, no provision of this Guaranty shall require the
Parent Guarantor to pay, perform or discharge any Liabilities prior to the time
such Liabilities are due and payable. When making any demand hereunder against
the Parent Guarantor, none of the Agent or any Lender need make a similar demand
on the Borrower;  provided  that any failure by the Agent or any Lender to
make any such demand or to collect any payments from the Borrower shall not
relieve the Parent Guarantor of its obligations or liabilities hereunder and
shall not impair or affect the rights and remedies, express or implied, or as a
matter of law, of the Agent and/or such Lender against the Parent Guarantor.
Subject to the limitation set forth in Section 2(b) hereof with respect to the
Class B Lenders, the Agent and/or each Lender may in all events pursue its
rights under this Guaranty prior to or simultaneously with pursuing its various
rights referred to in the Credit Agreement, as the Agent and/or such Lender may
determine.   

The
Parent Guarantor agrees that this Guaranty shall be continuing and the Parent
Guarantor guarantees that the Liabilities will be paid and performed strictly in
accordance with the terms of the applicable Loan Document, regardless of any
law, regulation or order now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction
affecting any of such terms or the rights of the Agent and/or the Lenders with
respect thereto. If for any reason the Borrower shall fail to fully and timely
pay or perform and discharge any Liabilities to be paid or performed by the
Borrower (whether affirmative or negative in character), the Parent Guarantor
shall promptly on demand by the Agent and/or any Lender pay or perform or cause
to be paid or performed, as the case may be, such Liabilities up to the
Aggregate Maximum Guaranteed Amount. Each of the obligations of the Parent
Guarantor under this Guaranty is separate and independent of each other
obligation of the Parent Guarantor under this Guaranty and separate and
independent of the Liabilities, and the Parent Guarantor agrees that a separate
action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against the Parent Guarantor to
enforce this Guaranty, irrespective of whether any action is brought against the
Borrower is joined in any such action or actions. The obligations of the Parent
Guarantor shall be continuing and irrevocable, absolute and unconditional,
primary and original and immediate and not contingent and shall remain in full
force and effect without regard to and not be released, discharged or in any way
affected by any circumstance or condition (other than by payment in full of the
Liabilities) including, without limitation, the occurrence of any one or more of
the following:   

(i)  any lack of validity
or enforceability of any of the Liabilities under the Credit Agreement and the
other Loan Documents or any document entered into in connection with the
transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents,
any provision thereof, or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto or
the absence of any action to enforce the same;

(ii)  any failure,
omission, delay or lack on the part of the Agent and/or the Lenders to enforce,
assert or exercise any right, power, privilege or remedy conferred on the Agent
and/or the Lenders in the Credit Agreement, the Security Agreement, this
Guaranty or any other Loan Document, or the inability of the Agent and/or the
Lenders to enforce any provision of the Credit Agreement or any other Loan
Document for any reason, or any other act or omission on the part of the Agent
or any Lender;

(iii)  any change in the
time, manner or place of performance or of payment, or in any other term of, all
or any of the Liabilities, or any other modification, supplement, amendment or
waiver of or any consent to departure from the terms and conditions of any of
the Credit Agreement, any other Loan Document or any document entered into in
connection with the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement or the
other Loan Documents; 

(iv)  any taking,
exchange, release or non-perfection of the Collateral or any other collateral or
security, or any taking, release or amendment or waiver of or consent to
departure from any other guaranty, for all or any of the Liabilities or the
acceptance of any security therefor;

(v)  the waiver by the
Agent and/or any Lender of the performance or observance by the Borrower of any
of the Liabilities, the waiver of any default in the performance or observance
thereof, any extension by the Agent and/or any Lender of the time for payment or
performance and discharge by the Borrower of any Liabilities or any extension,
indulgence or renewal of any Liabilities;

(vi)  any bankruptcy,
suspension of payments, insolvency, sale of assets, winding-up, dissolution,
liquidation, receivership or reorganization of, or similar proceedings
involving, the Borrower or its assets or any resulting release or discharge of
any of the Liabilities;

(vii)  the recovery of any
judgment against any Person or any action to enforce the same;

(viii)  any failure or
delay in the enforcement of the Liabilities of any Person under the Credit
Agreement or any other Loan Document or any document entered into in connection
with the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement or the other Loan
Documents or any provision thereof;

(ix)   any set-off,
counterclaim, deduction, defense, abatement, suspension, deferment, diminution,
recoupment, limitation or termination available with respect to any Liabilities
and, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, irrespective of any other
circumstances that might otherwise limit recourse by or against the Parent
Guarantor or any other Person;

(x)  the obtaining, the
amendment or the release of or consent to any departure from the primary or
secondary obligation of any other Person, in addition to the Parent Guarantor,
with respect to any Liabilities;

(xi)  any compromise,
alteration, amendment, modification, extension, renewal, release or other
change, or waiver, consent or other action, or delay or omission or failure to
act, in respect of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of the Credit
Agreement, any other Loan Document or any document entered into in connection
with the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement or any other Loan
Document, or any other agreement or any related document referred to therein, or
any assignment or transfer of any thereof;

(xii)  any manner of
application of Collateral or Proceeds thereof to all or any of the Liabilities,
or any manner of sale or other disposition of any Collateral, or any furnishing
or acceptance of additional collateral;

(xiii)  any change in
control in the ownership of the Borrower, any change, merger, demerger,
consolidation, restructuring or termination of the corporate structure or
existence of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;

(xiv)  to the fullest
extent permitted by Applicable Law, any other circumstance which might otherwise
constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, a guarantor or surety with
respect to any Liabilities;

(xv)  any default, failure
or delay, whether as a result of actual or alleged force majeure, commercial
impracticability or otherwise, in the performance of the Liabilities, or by any
other act or circumstances which may or might in any manner or to any extent
vary the risk of the Parent Guarantor, or which would otherwise operate as a
discharge of the Parent Guarantor;

(xvi)  the existence of
any other obligation of the Parent Guarantor, or any limitation thereof, in the
Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document;

(xvii)  any regulatory
change or other governmental action (whether or not adverse); or

(xviii)  the partial
payment or performance of the Liabilities (whether as a result of the exercise
of any right, remedy, power or privilege or otherwise) or the invalidity of any
payment for any reason whatsoever.

Should any money due or owing under this Guaranty not be
recoverable from the Parent Guarantor due to any of the matters specified in
clauses (i) through (xviii) above or for any other reason, then, in any such
case, such money shall nevertheless be recoverable from the Parent Guarantor as
though the Parent Guarantor were principal debtor in respect thereof and not
merely a guarantor and shall be paid by the Parent Guarantor forthwith.  

This
Guaranty shall continue to be effective or be automatically reinstated, as the
case may be, if at any time any payment, or any part thereof, of any of the
Liabilities is rescinded or must otherwise be restored or returned by the Agent
and/or any Lender for any reason whatsoever, whether upon the insolvency,
bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization of the Borrower or
otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made, and the Parent
Guarantor agrees that it will indemnify the Agent and each Lender on demand for
all reasonable costs and expenses (including, without limitation, fees and
disbursement of counsel) incurred by any such Person in connection with such
rescission or restoration and any such payments made by the Parent Guarantor
shall not be included in determining whether or not the Aggregate Maximum
Guaranteed Payment has been exceeded. If an event permitting the exercise of
remedies under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document shall at any time
have occurred and be continuing and such exercise, or any consequences thereof
provided in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, shall at such time
be prevented by reason of the pendency against the Borrower of a case or
proceeding under a bankruptcy or insolvency law, the Parent Guarantor agrees
that, for purposes of this Guaranty and its obligations hereunder, amounts
payable under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be deemed
to have been declared in default, with all attendant consequences as provided in
the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents as if such declaration of
default and the consequences thereof had been accomplished in accordance with
the terms of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and the Parent
Guarantor shall forthwith pay any amounts guaranteed hereunder up to the
Aggregate Maximum Guaranteed Amount, without further notice or demand.

SECTION 4.   Waiver . To the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law, the Parent Guarantor hereby expressly and irrevocably waives
diligence, promptness, demand for payment or performance, filing of claims with
any court, any proceeding to enforce any provision of the Loan Documents, notice
of acceptance of and reliance on this Guaranty by the Agent and each Lender,
notice of the creation of any liabilities of Borrower, any requirement that the
Agent or any Lender protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest or
lien on the Collateral or any property subject thereto, any right to require a
proceeding first against the Borrower, whether to marshal any assets or to
exhaust any right or take any action against the Borrower or any other Person or
entity or any collateral or otherwise, any diligence in collection or protection
of or realization upon any Liabilities, any obligation hereunder or any
collateral security for any of the foregoing, any right of protest, presentment,
notice or demand whatsoever, all claims of waiver, release, surrender,
alteration or compromise, and all defenses, set-offs, counterclaims,
recoupments, reductions, limitations, impairments or terminations, whether
arising hereunder or otherwise.   

SECTION 5.   Certain Actions . The Agent and each Lender may,
from time to time at its sole discretion and without notice to Parent Guarantor,
take any or all of the following actions without affecting the obligations of
Parent Guarantor hereunder: (i) retain or obtain a lien upon or a security
interest in any property to secure any of the Liabilities or any obligation
hereunder; (ii) retain or obtain the primary or secondary obligation of any
obligor or obligors, in addition to Parent Guarantor, with respect to any of the
Liabilities or any obligation hereunder; (iii) extend or renew for one or more
periods (regardless of whether longer than the original period), alter or
exchange any of the Liabilities, or release or compromise any obligation of
Parent Guarantor hereunder or any obligation of any nature of any other obligor
(including the Agent) with respect to any of the Liabilities; (iv) release or
fail to perfect any lien upon or security interest in, or impair, surrender,
release or permit any substitution or exchange for, all or any part of any
property securing any of the Liabilities or any obligation hereunder, or extend
or renew for one or more periods (regardless of whether longer than the original
period) or release, compromise, alter or exchange any obligations of any nature
of any obligor with respect to any such property; and (v) resort to Parent
Guarantor for payment of any of the Liabilities up to the Aggregate Maximum
Guaranteed Amount, regardless of whether the Agent or the Lender, as the case
may be, shall have resorted to any property securing any of the Liabilities or
any obligation hereunder or shall have proceeded against any other obligor
primarily or secondarily obligated with respect to any of the Liabilities.  

SECTION 6.   Subrogation . Any amounts received by the Agent or
any Lender from whatsoever source on account of the Liabilities may be applied
by it toward the payment of such of the Liabilities, and in such order of
application, as the Agent or such Lender may from time to time elect. No payment
made by or for the account of Parent Guarantor pursuant to this Guaranty shall
entitle Parent Guarantor by subrogation, indemnity or otherwise to any payment
by the Agent or the Lender, as the case may be, from or out of any property of
such Person, and Parent Guarantor shall not exercise any right or remedy against
the Agent or the Lender, as the case may be, or any property of such Person by
reason of any performance by Parent Guarantor of this Guaranty.   

SECTION 7.   Rights of Third Parties; Set-off . (a) This Guaranty
is made only for the benefit of, and shall be enforceable only by, the Agent and
each Lender, and this Guaranty shall not be construed to create any right in any
Person other than the Agent and each Lender to be a contract in whole or in part
for the benefit of any Person other than the Agent and each Lender.   

(b)  Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default under the Credit
Agreement, the Parent Guarantor hereby irrevocably authorizes the Agent, each
Lender and each of their respective Affiliates, at any time and from time to
time without prior notice to the Parent Guarantor, any such notice being
expressly waived by the Parent Guarantor, to set-off and appropriate, subject to
the limitation for the Aggregate Maximum Guaranteed Payment set forth in Section
2(a) hereof, and apply any and all assets, at any time held or owing by the
Parent Guarantor or any of its Affiliates to, or for the credit of the account
of the Parent Guarantor, or any part thereof in such amounts as the Agent or
such Lender, as the case may be, may elect, against and on account of the
obligations and liabilities of the Parent Guarantor to the Agent and each Lender
hereunder of every nature and description of the Agent and each Lender. The
Agent shall notify the Parent Guarantor promptly of any such set-off and the
application made by the Agent,  provided  that the failure to give such
notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights
of the Agent under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies
(including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) which the Agent and the
Lenders may have. 

SECTION 8.   Representations and Warranties . In addition to the
representations and warranties set forth in the Credit Agreement, the Parent
Guarantor represents and warrants to the Agent and each Lender as of the Closing
Date (unless an earlier date is expressly set forth therein) as follows:  

(a)   Access to Information . Parent Guarantor has and will
continue to have independent means of obtaining information concerning the
Borrower s and the Servicer s affairs, financial condition and
business. None of the Agent or any Lender shall have any duty or responsibility
to provide Parent Guarantor with any credit or other information concerning the
Borrower s or the Servicer s affairs, financial condition or business
which may come into the possession of the Agent or any Lender. 

(b)   Organization and Good Standing . It is a corporation
organized, validly existing and in compliance under the laws of the State of
Delaware, with corporate power and authority to own its properties and to
conduct its business as such properties are presently owned and such business is
presently conducted. 

(c)   Due Qualification . It is duly licensed, qualified and
authorized to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction where the
ownership, leasing or operation of its property or the conduct of its business
requires such licensure or qualification except for failures to be so qualified
which, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to
have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, property, assets,
liabilities, financial condition or prospects of Parent Guarantor. 

(d)   Power and Authority; Due Authorization . It has (i) all
necessary power, authority and legal right to execute, deliver and perform its
obligations under this Guaranty and (ii) duly authorized by all necessary
corporate action such execution, delivery and performance of this
Guaranty. 

(e)   Binding Obligations . This Guaranty constitutes the legal,
valid and binding obligation of Parent Guarantor, enforceable in accordance with
its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of
creditors  rights generally and by general principles of equity, regardless
of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at
law. 

(f)   No Violation . The execution, delivery and performance of
this Guaranty will not (i) conflict with, or result in any breach of any of the
terms and provisions of, or constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time
or both) a default under (A) the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of
Parent Guarantor or (B) any indenture, lease, loan agreement, receivables
purchase agreement, mortgage, deed of trust, or other agreement or instrument to
which Parent Guarantor is a party or by which it or its property is bound, (ii)
result in or require the creation or imposition of any lien upon any of its
properties pursuant to the terms of any such indenture, lease, loan agreement,
receivables purchase agreement, mortgage, deed of trust, or other agreement or
instrument or (iii) violate any law or any order, rule, regulation applicable to
Parent Guarantor of any court or of any federal, state or foreign regulatory
body, administrative agency or other governmental instrumentality having
jurisdiction over Parent Guarantor or any of its properties. 

(g)   Not Insolvent . The execution, delivery and performance by
the Parent Guarantor of this Guaranty will not render the Parent Guarantor
insolvent, nor is it being made in contemplation of the Parent Guarantor s
insolvency; the Parent Guarantor does not, in its reasonable judgment, have an
unreasonably small capital for conducting its business as presently contemplated
by it. 

(h)   Waiver of Immunity . To the extent that the Parent
Guarantor or any of its property is or becomes entitled at any time to any
immunity on the grounds of sovereignty or otherwise from any legal actions,
suits or proceedings, from set-off or counterclaim, from the jurisdiction or
judgment of any competent court, from service of process, from execution of a
judgment, from attachment prior to judgment, from attachment in aid of
execution, or from execution prior to judgment, or other legal process in any
jurisdiction, the Parent Guarantor, for itself and its successors and assigns
and its property, does hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waive, and agrees
not to plead or claim, any such immunity with respect to its obligations,
liabilities or any other matter under or arising out of or in connection with
this Guaranty, and each of the other Loan Documents or the subject matter hereof
or thereof, subject, in each case, to the provisions of each of the Loan
Documents and mandatory requirements of applicable law. 

SECTION 9.   Successors and Assigns .  

(a)  This Guaranty shall be binding upon Parent Guarantor and upon
Parent Guarantor s successors and assigns and all references herein to
Parent Guarantor or the Agent shall be deemed to include any successor or
successors whether immediate or remote, to such Person. Parent Guarantor shall
not assign any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written
consent of the Agent and each Lender. 

(b)  This Guaranty shall inure to the benefit of the Agent, each
Lender and their respective successors and assigns, and all references herein to
the Agent or any Lender shall be deemed to include any successors and assigns of
such Person (whether or not reference in a particular provision is made to such
successors and assigns). 

SECTION 10.   GOVERNING LAW . THIS GUARANTY SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING
SECTION 5-1401 AND 5-1402 OF THE GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT
GIVING EFFECT TO ANY CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES CONTAINED THEREIN. Wherever
possible each provision of this Guaranty shall be interpreted in such manner as
to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this
Guaranty shall be prohibited by or invalid under such law, such provision shall
be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without
invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this
Guaranty.   

SECTION 11.   CONSENT TO JURISDICTION; WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL . THE
AGENT AND EACH LENDER MAY ENFORCE ANY CLAIM ARISING OUT OF THIS GUARANTY AND ANY
OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT TO WHICH THE PARENT GUARANTOR IS A PARTY IN ANY STATE OR
FEDERAL COURT HAVING SUBJECT MATTER JURISDICTION AND LOCATED IN THE STATE AND
COUNTY OF NEW YORK AND WITH RESPECT TO ANY SUCH CLAIM, PARENT GUARANTOR HEREBY
IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF SUCH COURTS. THE PARENT
GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AGREES THAT SUCH LEGAL PROCESS MAY BE SERVED AT ITS
OFFICE AT 633 THIRD AVENUE, 27 TH  FLOOR, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10017. THE
PARENT GUARANTOR SHALL MAINTAIN SUCH OFFICE UNTIL ALL AMOUNTS PAYABLE UNDER THIS
AGREEMENT SHALL HAVE BEEN PAID IN FULL OR, IF SUCH OFFICE IS CLOSED BEFORE SUCH
TIME, THE PARENT GUARANTOR SHALL IMMEDIATELY DESIGNATE AND APPOINT A PROCESS
AGENT AND SHALL PROMPTLY DELIVER TO AGENT AND EACH LENDER EVIDENCE IN WRITING OF
SUCH PROCESS AGENT S ACCEPTANCE OF SUCH APPOINTMENT. THE PARENT GUARANTOR
AGREES THAT SUCH SERVICE, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, (I) SHALL
BE DEEMED IN EVERY RESPECT EFFECTIVE SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON IT IN ANY SUCH
SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING AND (II) SHALL BE TAKEN AND HELD TO BE VALID PERSONAL
SERVICE UPON AND PERSONAL DELIVERY TO IT. NOTHING HEREIN CONTAINED SHALL
PRECLUDE THE AGENT OR ANY LENDER FROM BRINGING AN ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN
RESPECT HEREOF IN ANY OTHER COUNTRY, STATE OR PLACE HAVING JURISDICTION OVER
SUCH ACTION. PARENT GUARANTOR IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT
PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING
OF THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT
LOCATED IN THE STATE AND COUNTY OF NEW YORK AND ANY CLAIM THAT ANY SUCH SUIT,
ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH COURT HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN AN INCONVENIENT
FORUM. PARENT GUARANTOR HEREBY EXPRESSLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN
ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING TO ENFORCE OR DEFEND ANY RIGHTS UNDER THIS GUARANTY OR
UNDER ANY AMENDMENT, INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT DELIVERED OR WHICH MAY IN
THE FUTURE BE DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR ARISING FROM ANY RELATIONSHIP
EXISTING IN CONNECTION WITH THIS GUARANTY, AND AGREES THAT ANY SUCH ACTION OR
PROCEEDING SHALL BE TRIED BEFORE A COURT AND NOT BEFORE A JURY.   

SECTION 12.  Notices . All notices, demands or requests given pursuant to
this Agreement shall be in writing personally delivered, or sent by facsimile
(with subsequent telephone confirmation of receipt thereof) or sent by
internationally recognized overnight courier service, to the following
addresses:   

To Lenders: 
 At the respective addresses set forth in the Credit Agreement 

Notice shall be effective and deemed received (a) two (2) days after being
delivered to the courier service, if sent by courier, (b) upon receipt of
confirmation of transmission, if sent by telecopy, or (c) when delivered,
if delivered by hand. Either party may alter the address to which communications
are to be sent by such change of address in conformity with the provisions of
this Section 12 for giving notice and by otherwise complying with any applicable
terms of this Guaranty.   

SECTION 13.   Amendments and Waivers . No amendment, waiver or
other modification of any provision of this Guaranty shall be effective without
the written agreement of the Parent Guarantor, the Agent and the Lenders. Any
waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the
specific purpose for which given.   

SECTION 14.   Severability; Integration . In case any provision
in or obligation under this Guaranty shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable
in any jurisdiction, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining
provisions or obligations, or of such provision or obligation in any other
jurisdiction, shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. This
Guaranty contains the final and complete integration of all prior expressions by
the Parent Guarantor hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall
constitute the entire agreement of the Parent Guarantor hereto with respect to
the subject matter hereof, superseding all prior oral or written understandings.

SECTION 15.   Headings and Exhibits . The headings herein are for
purposes of references only and shall not otherwise affect the meaning or
interpretation of any provision hereof. The schedules, exhibits and annexes (if
any) attached hereto and referred to herein shall constitute a part of this
Guaranty and are incorporated into this Guaranty for all purposes.   

SECTION 16.   Confidentiality .  

(a)  Each of the Agent, the Lenders (and, if applicable, their
respective Credit Support Parties) and the Parent Guarantor shall maintain and
shall cause each of its employees and officers to maintain the confidentiality
of this Guaranty and all information with respect to the other parties,
including all information regarding the business of the Parent Guarantor and its
businesses obtained by it or them in connection with the structuring,
negotiating and execution of the transactions contemplated herein and the other
Loan Documents, except that each such party and its officers and employees may
(i) disclose such information to its external accountants, auditors, regulators,
attorneys, investors, potential investors and the agents of such Persons
(  Excepted Persons    provided, however , that each
Excepted Person shall, as a condition to any such disclosure, agree for the
benefit of the Agent, the Lenders and the Parent Guarantor that such information
shall be used solely in connection with such Excepted Person s evaluation
of, or relationship with, the Parent Guarantor and its Affiliates and shall
agree to keep such information confidential, (ii) disclose the existence of the
Guaranty and the Loan Documents, and the participation of such Lenders (and, if
applicable, their respective Credit Support Parties) in the transaction
evidenced thereby, but not the financial terms thereof, (iii) disclose such
information as is required by Applicable Law, and (iv) disclose the Guaranty and
the other Loan Documents and such information in any suit, action, proceeding or
investigation (whether in law or in equity or pursuant to arbitration) involving
any of the Loan Documents for the purpose of defending itself, reducing its
liability, or protecting or exercising any of its claims, rights, remedies or
interests under or in connection with any of the Loan Documents. It is
understood that the financial terms of the Loan Documents that may not be
disclosed pursuant to the prohibition contained in clause (iii) above except in
compliance with this Section 16(a) include, without limitation, all fees and
other pricing terms and all Events of Default and priority of payment
provisions. 

(b)  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Parent
Guarantor hereby consents to the disclosure of any nonpublic information with
respect to it (i) to the Agent or the Lenders (and, if applicable, their
respective Credit Support Parties) by each other, (ii) by the Agent and the
Lenders (and, if applicable, their respective Credit Support Parties) to any
prospective or actual assignee, participant or pledgee of any of them (including
any potential participant in a refinancing of the transaction set forth in the
Loan Documents) provided such Person agrees to hold such information
confidential pursuant to the terms of this Guaranty, or (iii) by the Agent and
the Lenders (and, if applicable, their respective Credit Support Parties) to any
rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of a surety, guaranty or
credit or liquidity enhancement to the Lenders (and, if applicable, their
respective Credit Support Parties) and to any officers, directors, employees,
agents, outside accountants and attorneys of any of the foregoing, provided each
such Person is informed of the confidential nature of such information and such
Person has a need to know such information and agrees to hold such information
confidential. In addition, the Lenders and the Agent may disclose any such
nonpublic information as required pursuant to any law, rule, regulation,
direction, request or order of any judicial, administrative or regulatory
authority or proceedings (whether or not having the force or effect of
law). 

(c)  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the foregoing
shall not be construed to prohibit (i) disclosure of any and all information
that is or becomes publicly known (and the Parent Guarantor hereby acknowledges
that its Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended December 31, 2005 will
include a disclosure concerning the existence of the transaction contemplated by
the Loan Documents); (ii) disclosure of any and all information (A) if required
to do so by any Applicable Law, (B) to any Governmental Authority having or
claiming authority to regulate or oversee any aspects of the Agent s, the
Lenders , or the Parent Guarantor s business or that of their
Affiliates, (C) pursuant to any subpoena, civil investigative demand or similar
demand or request of any court, regulatory authority, arbitrator or arbitration
to which the Agent, the Lenders or the Parent Guarantor or an officer, director,
employer, shareholder, owner, member, partner, agent, attorney, employee or
affiliate of any of the foregoing is a party, (D) in any preliminary or final
offering circular, registration statement or contract or other document approved
in writing in advance by the Parent Guarantor, (E) to any Affiliate, independent
or internal auditor, agent, employee or attorney of the agent, the Lenders or
the Parent Guarantor advise such recipient of the confidential nature of the
information being disclosed and such Person agrees to be bound by the
confidentiality provisions set forth herein; or (F) in any sales and/or
marketing material prepared by any Lender or its Credit Support Party so long as
such disclosure does not include any disclosure regarding the financial terms of
the Loan Documents including, without limitation, all fees and other pricing
terms and all Events of Default and priority of payment provisions, or (iii) any
other disclosure authorized by the Parent Guarantor, such authorization not to
be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

SECTION 17.   Disclosure of Tax Treatment of Transaction .
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any Loan
Document, all Persons may disclose to any and all Persons, without limitation of
any kind, the federal income tax treatment or tax structure of any of the
transactions contemplated by this Guaranty, the Loan Documents or any other
related document, any fact relevant to understanding the federal tax treatment
of such transactions and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other
tax analyses) relating to such federal income tax treatment.   

SECTION 18.   Termination . Subject to the provisions of the
final paragraph of Section 3 hereof, this Guaranty shall terminate upon the
earlier to occur of (i) discharge of the Credit Agreement and (ii) payment in
full of the Liabilities.   

[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, this Guaranty has been executed and delivered by Parent
Guarantor s duly authorized officer as of the date first written above.

INTERPOOL, INC. 

By:             

Name: 
        Title: 

Accepted and Agreed: 
 
FORTIS CAPITAL CORP., in its 
capacity as Agent and as Lender under the 
Credit Agreement 

By:             

Name: 
        Title: 
 
By:             

Name: 
        Title: 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 13
 interpool-ex1052_030906.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.52

Exhibit 10.52 

EXECUTION COPY   

CREDIT AGREEMENT    

dated as of December 21, 2005  

among  

INTERPOOL CONTAINERS LIMITED,   
as the Borrower  

INTERPOOL, INC.,   
as the Parent Guarantor  

INTERPOOL LIMITED,    

DVB BANK N.V.,   
as the Agent  

and  

THE LENDERS NAMED HEREIN    

DVB Bank N.V., 
Arranger  

TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Page   

SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS; RULES OF INTERPRETATION 
 1 

2.9     Additional Costs and Expenses; Reserve Charge; Capital Requirements 
 24 

SECTION 3. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES  
 30 

3.1     Corporate Existence and Good Standing, Etc 
 30 

3.2     Corporate Power; Consents; Absence of Conflict with Other Agreements, Etc 
 30 

3.8     Compliance with Other Instruments, Laws, Etc 
 31 

3.12     Patents, Copyrights, Permits, Trademarks, Licenses and Leases 
 32 

SECTION 5. SUBSTITUTION IN CONNECTION WITH AN EVENT OF
LOSS 
 37 

SECTION 6. AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS 
 37 

6.3     Records and Accounts; Collateral Tracking System 
 37 

6.4     Financial Statements, Certificates and Information 
 38 

6.5     With reasonable promptness, such other data as the Agent or any of the
Lenders (acting through the Agent 
           so long as no Event of Default is continuing)
may reasonably request 
 39 

6.10     Inspection of Properties and Books; Containers Monitoring System 
 40 

6.18     Distributions by Interpool Containers Funding II, SRL 
 43 

7.7     Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets, Etc 
 44 

SECTION 17. PARTIES IN INTEREST; SUCCESSORS AND
ASSIGNS 
 58 

SECTION 23. SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION; WAIVERS 
 63 

ANNEXES, EXHIBITS AND SCHEDULES    

Exhibit A 
 Form of Note 

Exhibit B 
 Form of Notice of Borrowing 

Exhibit C 
 Form of Notice of Assignment 

Exhibit D 
 Form of Compliance Certificate 

Exhibit E 
 Form of Assignment and Acceptance 

Exhibit F 
 Form of Security Agreement 

Exhibit G 
 Form of Parent Guaranty 

Exhibit H 
 Form of Borrowing Base Certificate 

Exhibit I 
 Form of Account Control Agreement 

Schedule 1 
 Payment Details 

Schedule 2 
 Funding Commitments; Pro Rata Share 

Schedule 3 
 Tranche A Amortization Schedule 

Schedule 4 
 Tranche B Amortization Schedule 

Schedule 5 
 Borrowing Base Schedule 

[Credit Agreement]   

CREDIT AGREEMENT    

THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT , dated as of December 21, 2005, is among
 INTERPOOL CONTAINERS LIMITED , a company organized under the laws of
Barbados (together with its successors and permitted assigns, the
 Borrower ),  INTERPOOL, INC. , a corporation organized under the laws
of the State of Delaware (together with its successors and permitted assigns,
the  Parent Guarantor ),  INTERPOOL LIMITED , a company organized
under the laws of Barbados (together with its successors and permitted assigns,
 Interpool Limited ), the banks and other financial institutions whose signatures
appear at the end of this Agreement or that join this Agreement as a Lender party from
time to time (each individually, a  Lender  and collectively, the
 Lenders ) and  DVB BANK N.V. , as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such
capacity, the  Agent ).   

WHEREAS 
the Lenders wish to establish a secured credit facility which provides for
credit loans to the Borrower on a single-draw term loan basis in an aggregate
principal amount up to $250,718,387.86.   

NOW
THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY DECLARED AND AGREED AS FOLLOWS :   

Section 1.      
 Definitions; Rules of Interpretation .   

1.1  Definitions . The following terms shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them below in this Section 1 or in the provisions
of this Agreement referred to below:   

Account
Control Agreement  . The Pledge Agreement, between the Borrower, the Agent
and ING Bank N.V., as the Account Bank, substantially in the form of  Exhibit
I  hereto.   

Affiliate  . With respect to any specified Person, any other Person
(i) which directly or indirectly controls, or whose directors or officers
directly or indirectly control, or is controlled by, or is under common control
with, such specified Person, (ii) which beneficially owns or holds, or
whose directors or officers beneficially own or hold, 5% or more of any class of
the voting stock (or, in the case of an entity that is not a corporation, 5% of
the equity interest) of such specified Person, or (iii) 5% or more of the
voting stock (or, in the case of an entity that is not a corporation, 5% of the
equity interest) of which is owned or held by such specified Person. The term
 control  means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power
to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person,
whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise;
and the terms  controlling  and  controlled  have meanings
correlative to the foregoing.   

Agent  . DVB Bank N.V., acting in the capacity of administrative
agent for itself and the other Lenders under this Agreement, and any other
banking institution succeeding to and for the time being acting in such
capacity.   

Agent s
Jurisdiction  . Initially, Rotterdam, The Netherlands or, with notice to
the other parties, such other jurisdiction from which the Agent shall manage
this transaction.   

Aggregate
Net Present Value  . As of any date of determination, an amount equal to
the sum of the then Net Present Values of all Eligible Leases then pledged on a
first priority and perfected basis by the Borrower to the Agent pursuant to the
terms of the Security Agreement and the other Loan Documents.   

Aggregate
Note Principal Balance  . As of any date of determination, an amount equal
to the sum of the then unpaid principal balances of all Notes.   

Agreement  . This Credit Agreement, together with all Exhibits and Schedules hereto, as
originally executed, or if amended or supplemented from time to time, as so
amended or supplemented.   

Applicable
Margin  . For any Interest Period and in respect of the Credit Loans of
any Tranche, (i) in the case of Tranche A Loans, 1.65% per annum and (ii) in the
case of Tranche B Loans (x) prior to the Term-Out Period, 3.50% per annum and
(y) during the Term-Out Period, 5.00% per annum.   

Applicable
Rate  . For any Interest Period and Credit Loan of any Tranche, (i) in the
case of Tranche A Loans, 6.365% per annum (the  Fixed Rate ) and (ii) in
the case of Tranche B Loans, the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period plus
the Applicable Margin. The Fixed Rate shall be a single fixed rate of interest
established by each of the Lenders in accordance with market practice by
effecting an interest rate swap transaction (the
 Swap Transaction ) with a third party swap counterparty (which may be the  swap
desk  of a Lender(s) or through a  swap agent ) (the  Swap
Counterparty ) pursuant to which on each Payment Date (A) such Lender will pay to
the Swap Counterparty an amount equal to interest on a notional amount equal to the
balance of such Lender s Tranche A Notes scheduled to be outstanding as at the first
day of the Interest Period ending on such Payment Date at the  fixed rate  as so
established (interest being calculated on a bond basis) and (B) the Swap Counterparty
will pay to such Lender an amount equal to interest on such notional amount at a rate
equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period plus the Applicable Margin
(calculated on a actual/360 day basis). The Agent shall coordinate the Swap Transactions
of each Lender to ensure consistency and compliance with market practice. The fixed rate
as so determined shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Swap Transaction shall be
subject to the protections afforded each Lender under Sections 2.9 and 2.17 hereof
(with the terms  Credit Loans  and  Notes  of any Lender being deemed
to include a reference to such Lender s Swap Transaction).   

Arranger  . DVB Bank N.V., and its successors and permitted assigns.

Assignee  . As defined in Section 17.   

Assignment and Assumption  . As defined in Section 17(b).  

Authorized
Officer  . Any person holding the title of Chairman, Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Operating Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer, Controller
or Treasurer (or other officer performing the functions thereof).   

Available Commitment  . $250,718,387.86.   

Base Rate  . For any Tranche, the higher of (i) the Prime Rate and
(ii) the Federal Funds Effective Rate.  

Borrower  .
Interpool Containers Limited, together with its successors and permitted
assigns.  

Borrowing  .The borrowing on the Closing Date of the Credit Loans by
the Borrower.  

Borrowing
Base  . The Borrowing Base as of the relevant Payment Date that is
specified in  Schedule 5 .  

Borrowing
Base Certificate  . A certificate, substantially in the form of Exhibit
H.  

Business
Day  . Any day other than (i) a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or
other day on which banks in New York, New York are required or permitted by law
to close, or (ii) in respect of any Interest Period, any borrowing
hereunder, or any payment or prepayment of interest of and/or principal of any
Credit Loan, or any notice in respect of the foregoing, a day in which dealings
in Dollars are not effected in London, England, and a day that is a legal
holiday in the Agent s Jurisdiction.  

Capitalized
Lease Obligations  . All obligations of the Parent Guarantor and its
Subsidiaries under Capitalized Leases, as reflected on the consolidated balance
sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its consolidated subsidiaries from time to
time delivered pursuant to Section 6.4(a) or (b) hereof.  

Capitalized
Leases  . Any lease agreement pursuant to which the Parent Guarantor or
any of its Subsidiaries is the lessee and the lessee s obligations under
which are required to be reflected as liabilities on the consolidated balance
sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its consolidated subsidiaries from time to
time delivered pursuant to Section 6.4(a) or (b) hereof.  

Casualty
Item  . An item of Eligible Equipment that the Borrower has actual
knowledge that it has become the subject of an Event of Loss and has not been
subject to a substitution in accordance with the related Lease.  

Casualty
Payment Amount  . With respect to each Casualty Item as at any date of
determination, an amount equal to the Net Present Value of such Casualty Item as
at such date.  

Closing
Date  . The Business Day on which the parties hereto shall have executed
and delivered this Agreement and on which the Credit Loans are made
hereunder.  

Code  . The United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the
rules and regulations promulgated hereunder, in each case, as amended from time
to time.  

              Collateral  .
In respect of the Borrower, this term shall have the meaning set forth in the
Security Agreement.  

Collateral
Account  . The "Collateral Account" established under the Security
Agreement.  

Commitment  . As defined in Section 2.1(d).   

Competitor  . Any Person engaged, or having an Affiliate engaged, as
an active trade or business, in the container leasing industry; provided,
however, that in no event shall any insurance company, bank, bank holding
company, savings institution or trust company, fraternal benefit society,
pension, retirement or profit sharing trust or fund, or any collateralized bond
obligation fund or similar fund (or any trustee of any such fund) or any holder
of any obligations of any such fund (solely as a result of being such a holder)
be deemed to be a Competitor.  

Compliance Certificate  .  As defined in Section 4(n).  

Consolidated  . As applied to any term used in this Agreement, the
relevant figures for the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated
basis determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Container  .        Any new or
used container owned by the Borrower and leased to a Lessee under a Finance
Lease.   

Controlled
Group  . All trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under
common control that, together with the Borrower, are treated as a single
employer under Section 414(b) or 414(c) of the Code or Section 4001 of
ERISA.  

Corporation  . Any or all of the following, as the context may
require, corporations, limited partnerships, limited liability companies,
limited liability partnerships, joint stock associations and business
trusts.  

Credit
Loan(s)  . As defined in Section 2.1.  

Current Maturities  . As of any date of determination, the sum of all current
maturities of long-term Indebtedness and, without duplication of the foregoing,
Capitalized Lease Obligations, appearing on the consolidated balance sheet of
the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries from time to time delivered pursuant
to Section 6.4(a) or (b) hereof.  

Default(s)  . As defined in Section 8.  

Default
Rate  . In respect of any principal of any Credit Loan or any other amount
under this Agreement that is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by
acceleration, by optional or mandatory prepayment or otherwise), a rate per
annum during the period from and including the due date to but excluding the
date on which such amount is paid in full equal to (A) in the case of Tranche A
Loans, 2% plus the higher of (x) , the Fixed Rate or (y) the Eurodollar Rate
plus the Applicable Margin or (B) in the case of Tranche B Loans, 2% plus the
Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin.  

Defaulted
Lease  . Any Lease (i) in which the Agent, for the benefit of the
Lenders, has a security interest and (ii) for which (A) a rental
payment owing thereunder is more than (x) 90 days delinquent (measured from its
contractual due date), or (B) the related Lessee is in default under any
other provision of such Lease not dealt with in clause (A) and any
applicable grace and/or cure period set forth in such Lease has expired and, in
the case of this clause (B), the lessor has given notice to such Lessee that
such Lease is in default.  

Derivatives
Obligations  . All obligations of any Person in respect of any rate swap
transaction, basis swap, forward rate transaction, commodity swap, commodity
option, equity swap or equity index swap, equity option or equity index option,
bond option, interest rate option, foreign exchange transaction, cap
transaction, floor transaction, collar transaction, currency swap transaction,
cross-currency rate swap transaction, currency option or any other similar
transaction (including any option with respect to any of the foregoing
transactions) or any combination of the foregoing transactions.  

Distributions  .        For any
period of measurement with respect to any Corporation, any of the following:
(a) the declaration or payment of any dividend or distribution on or in
respect of shares of any class of capital stock or other ownership interests of
such Corporation, except dividends payable solely in shares of such
Corporation s common stock or other ownership interests having rights
similar to common stock; and (b) any other loan, dividend or distribution
for any purpose from such Corporation (however characterized), including
inter-company loans and guarantees, to or for the benefit of any or all of its
shareholders, whether paid on or in respect of shares of any class of the
capital stock or other ownership interests of such Corporation or otherwise.

Dollars   and   $  . Dollars or such coin or currency of
the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal funds for
the payment of public and private debts in the United States of America.

DVB  .        DVB Bank N.V.

Earnings
Available for Fixed Charges  . For any rolling four quarter period, the
sum of Fixed Charges for such period plus Net Income for such period (adjusted
to account for the impact of any non-cash fair value adjustment for the 2004
warrants) before income taxes plus interest expenses for such period relating to
(A) the Parent Guarantor s 9-7/8% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest
Debentures due 2027 and the related 9-7/8% Capital Securities of Interpool
Capital on the consolidated balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries, and (B) the 9.25% Convertible Redeemable Junior
Subordinated Debentures due 2022 on the consolidated balance sheet of the Parent
Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries and (C) any future subordinated debt
of Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries.  

Eligible
Equipment  . Any Container which, as of any date of determination complies
with all of the following criteria:   

(i) the Borrower
holds legal and beneficial title thereto;   

(ii) to the
Borrower s knowledge, it is in good working condition and good working
order;   

(iii) it is not then
the subject of an Event of Loss (or an event which, with notice and/or lapse of
time, would constitute an Event of Loss);   

(iv) it is subject to no Liens except the Lien of the Security Agreement, any
related Eligible Lease and other Permitted Liens;   

(v) the Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, has a first priority, perfected
security interest given by the Borrower to the extent of its interest therein;

(vi) it complies
with applicable industry standards including, without limitation, to the extent
they may apply, The Customs Convention on Containers, The International
Convention for Safe Containers and the International Organization for
Standardization, including, without limitation, as to plating, maintenance,
examination, re-examination and marking with re-examination dates, such
examination, or re-examination, being performed, to the extent it may apply, in
accordance with the rules and regulations for the Safety Approval of Cargo
Containers of the United States Department of Transportation;   

(vii) the Agent
shall have received the documentation required to determine Net Present
Value;  

(viii) it is not
traded, located, operated or used, directly or indirectly, in a Prohibited
Jurisdiction or by a Prohibited Person, and no Lessee or any sublessee thereof
is a Prohibited Person or organized in a Prohibited Jurisdiction;  

(ix) it is in the
possession of the Borrower, except (w) for such time as it is in the
possession of a Lessee pursuant to the terms of a Lease, (x) for such time as it
is in transit to the Borrower, (y) for temporary delivery thereof to depot
owners and other Persons for repairs and maintenance made in the ordinary course
of business or (z) as otherwise permitted under any Lease;

(x) it has not been
altered or otherwise (without the prior written consent of the Agent, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), other than such alterations or
modifications required by Section 6.7(a) or required (or permitted to be
effected) in accordance with the terms of any applicable Lease;

(xi) the Borrower
has made, or cause to be made, all needful and proper repairs, replacements,
additions and improvements thereto as are necessary for the conduct of its
business, and in order to maintain it in accordance with manufacturer s
specifications and recommendations and in as good an operating condition as when
originally delivered, reasonable wear and tear and causes beyond the
Borrower s control excepted;  

(xii) it is used in
accordance with good operating practices and complies with all loading
limitations, handling procedures and operating instructions prescribed by the
manufacturer, which include, to the extent applicable, any regulations and
recommendations of the International Organization of Standardization as well as
any applicable local regulations, and it is not used in a manner which may
damage or shorten its life, including, without limitation, excessive impact and
unbalanced loading;  

(xiii) it is not
knowingly used for storage of transportation of contraband or of goods which may
damage it, including, without limitation, unprotected corrosive substances,
poorly secured materials, or bulk commodities which may corrode, oxidize,
severely dent, puncture, contaminate, stain or damage it; and

(xiv) it is
identified by appropriate lettering and numbering.   

Eligible
Lease  . Any Lease that as of any date of determination meets all of the
following characteristics:   

(i)  Finance
Lease . Such Lease provides for fixed (not floating) rental payments and is a
Finance Lease.  

(ii)  No
Defaulted Lease . Such Lease is not a Defaulted Lease;

(iii)  Valid
Contracts . Such Lease is a legal, valid and binding full recourse payment
obligation of the related Lessee enforceable in accordance with its terms
(except as may be limited by applicable insolvency, bankruptcy, moratorium,
reorganization, or other similar laws affecting enforceability of
creditors  rights generally and the availability of equitable remedies) and
is in full force and effect and has not been satisfied, subordinated or
rescinded;  

(iv)  Absolute
Obligations . The related Lessee s obligations under such Lease are
 hell or high water  obligations that are, among other
characteristics, non-cancelable, unconditional and not subject to any right of
set-off, rescission, counterclaim, off-set, reduction or recoupment during the
non-cancelable term of such Lease;  

(v)  Taxes;
Maintenance; Insurance . Such Lease contains provisions requiring the related
Lessee to pay all sales, use, excise, rental, property or similar taxes imposed
on or with respect to the Equipment and to assume all risk of loss or
malfunction of the related Equipment and such Lease requires the related Lessee,
at its own expense, to maintain the Equipment in good and workable order and to
obtain and maintain liability insurance and physical damage insurance on the
Equipment subject thereto;  

(vi)  No
Violation . The pledge of the Borrower s right, title and interest in
and to such Lease and the related Equipment will not violate the terms or
provisions of such Lease;  

(vii)
 Insolvency . The related Lessee is not subject to bankruptcy or other
insolvency proceedings;  

(viii)  U.S.
Dollars . All payments owing under such Lease are required to be made in
Dollars;  

(ix)
 Acceleration . Such Lease provides for the acceleration of all rental
payments thereunder upon default by the Lessee;  

(x)  Event of
Loss . Such Lease requires that in the event of an event of loss (as defined
in such Lease) in respect of any Container, the related Lessee must take one of
the following actions: (a) restore or repair the affected Equipment to good
repair, condition and working order or replace the Equipment with like
equipment of the same or later model in good repair, condition and working
order, or (b) make a lump sum payment relating to such Container in an
amount not less than the Net Present Value thereof, or (c) continue to make
contract payments on its regularly scheduled basis despite the occurrence of an
event of loss; and  

(xi)  Partial
Pledges . No portion of such Lease or the Containers subject to such Lease
is, on such date, pledged to a third party.   

Equipment  . All of the Containers identified on Schedule 1 to the
Security Agreement Supplement, and any Substitute Equipment.  

Equity
Interests  . With respect to any Person, any and all shares, partnership,
membership, trust and other interests, participations or other equivalents
(however designated) of equity ownership interests of such Person.  

ERISA  .
The United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and the rules
and regulations thereunder, collectively, as the same may be amended from time
to time.  

Eurodollar
Rate  . With respect to any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum
determined pursuant to the following formula:   

Eurodollar Rate = 
  LIBOR  
1-Eurodollar Reserve Percentage 

The Eurodollar Rate
shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.   

Eurodollar
Rate Basis  . Any Credit Loan for which the rate of interest applicable
thereto is being determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate.   

Eurodollar
Reserve Percentage  . For any day, that percentage (expressed as a
decimal) which is in effect from time to time under Regulation D, as such
regulation may be amended from time to time or any successor regulation, as the
maximum reserve requirement (including any basic, supplemental, emergency,
special, or marginal reserves) applicable with respect to Eurocurrency
liabilities as that term is defined in Regulation D (or against any other
category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the
interest rate of Credit Loans on Eurodollar Rate Basis is determined), whether
or not any Lender has any Eurocurrency liabilities subject to such reserve
requirement at that time. Credit Loans on a Eurodollar Rate Basis shall be
deemed to constitute Eurocurrency liabilities and as such shall be deemed
subject to reserve requirements without benefits of credits for proration,
exceptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender.

Event of Default  .  As defined in Section 8.  

Event of
Loss  . With respect to any item of Equipment, any of the following events
or conditions:  

(i) total loss or
destruction thereof;  

(ii) theft or
disappearance thereof without recovery within sixty (60) days after such theft
or disappearance becomes known to the Borrower;  

(iii) damage
rendering such Equipment unfit for normal use and, in the judgment of the
Borrower, beyond repair at reasonable cost;  

(iv) any
condemnation, seizure, forced sale or other taking of title to or use of any
such Equipment;  

(v) if such
Equipment is then subject to the terms of a Lease, such item of Equipment shall
have been deemed under the terms of such Lease to have suffered an Event of Loss
(howsoever described), including but not limited to an Event of Loss that allows
the Lessee to continue to make contract payments on its regularly scheduled
basis despite the occurrence of said Event of Loss; or

(vi) such item of
Equipment is located in a Prohibited Jurisdiction.

Federal Funds
Effective Rate  . An interest rate per annum equal to the sum of
(i) one half of one percent (.5%) and (ii) the rate set forth for such
date opposite the caption  Federal Funds (Effective)  in the weekly
statistical release designated as  H.15 (519) , or any successor
publication published by the United States Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a
Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions
received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing
selected by it.  

Fee Letter  . The
letter dated December 21, 2005 between the Parent Guarantor and DVB.  

Finance
Lease  . A Lease that is classified under GAAP as a finance lease and that
is classified as such on the consolidated balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor
and its consolidated subsidiaries from time to time delivered pursuant to
Section 6.4(a) or (b) hereof.  

Fixed
Charges  . For any rolling four quarter period, the sum of interest
expense (as determined in accordance with GAAP) of the Parent Guarantor and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries (excluding interest expense for such period with
respect to (A) the Parent Guarantor s 9-7/8% Junior Subordinated Deferrable
Interest Debentures due 2027 and the related 9-7/8% Capital Securities of
Interpool Capital on the consolidated balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and
its Consolidated Subsidiaries, and (B) the amount representing the 9.25%
Convertible Redeemable Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2022 on the
consolidated balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries and (C) any future subordinated debt of Parent Guarantor and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries), plus obligations of Parent Guarantor and its
Consolidated Subsidiaries as a lessee for lease rentals on long term leases (as
determined in accordance with GAAP) for such period.  

Funded
Debt  . All indebtedness for borrowed money with recourse to Parent
Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, or any of them, including purchase
money mortgages, capitalized leases, conditional sales contracts and similar
title retention debt instruments, (excluding any current maturities portion of
such indebtedness that becomes due within 12 months from the date of calculation
thereof). The calculation of Funded Debt shall include all Funded Debt of Parent
Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries which appears in the Parent
Guarantor s consolidated financial statements, plus any liabilities which
would otherwise be classified as Funded Debt of any other Person (if such Person
was a Consolidated Subsidiary), which has been guaranteed by Parent Guarantor
and its Consolidated Subsidiaries or any of them, either jointly or severally.
Funded Debt shall exclude (A) the amount representing the Parent
Guarantor s 9-7/8% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due
2027 and the related 9-7/8% Capital Securities of Interpool Capital on the
consolidated balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial
statements are available, (B) the amount representing the 9.25% Convertible
Redeemable Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2022 on the consolidated balance
sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the most
recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are available and
(C) any future subordinated debt of Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries.  

Funding
Losses  . As defined in Section 2.16.  

Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles   or   GAAP  . Accounting
principles which are (i) consistent with the principles promulgated or
adopted from time to time by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and its
predecessors, (ii) generally accepted in the United States of America, and
(iii) such that a certified public accountant would, insofar as the use of
accounting principles is pertinent, be in a position to deliver an unqualified
opinion as to financial statements in which such principles have been properly
applied.  

Governmental
Authority  . Any government or political subdivision or any agency,
authority, bureau, central bank, commission, department or instrumentality of
either, or any court, tribunal, grand jury or arbitrator, in each case whether
foreign or domestic.  

Guarantees  .
By any Person means all obligations (other than endorsements in the ordinary
course of business of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection) of such
Person guaranteeing, or in effect guaranteeing, any Indebtedness, dividend or
other obligation of any other Person (the  primary obligor ) in any manner,
whether directly or indirectly, including all obligations incurred through an
agreement, contingent or otherwise, by such Person: (a) to purchase such
Indebtedness or obligation or any property or assets constituting security
therefor, (b) to advance or supply funds (i) for the purchase or
payment of such Indebtedness or obligation, or (ii) to maintain working
capital or any other balance sheet condition or otherwise to advance or to make
available funds for the purchase or payment of such Indebtedness or obligation,
(c) to lease property or to purchase securities or other property or
services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or
obligation of the ability of the primary obligor to make payment of the
Indebtedness or obligation, or (d) otherwise to assure the owner of the
Indebtedness or obligation of the primary obligor against loss in respect
thereof. For the purposes of all computations made under this Agreement, a
Guaranty in respect of any Indebtedness for borrowed money shall be deemed to be
Indebtedness equal to the principal amount of such Indebtedness for borrowed
money which has been guaranteed, and a Guaranty in respect of any other
obligation or liability or any dividend shall be deemed to be Indebtedness equal
to the maximum aggregate amount of such obligation, liability or dividend.

Indebtedness  .
For any Person, all obligations, contingent or otherwise, that in accordance
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles should be classified on such
Person s balance sheet as liabilities, or to which reference should be made
by footnotes thereto, including in any event and whether so classified, all:
(a) obligations created, issued or incurred by such Person for borrowed
money (whether by loan, the issuance and sale of debt securities or the sale of
property to another Person subject to an agreement, contingent or otherwise, to
repurchase such property from such Person); (b) obligations of such Person
to pay the deferred purchase or acquisition price of property or services, other
than trade accounts payable (other than for borrowed money) arising, and accrued
expenses incurred, in the ordinary course of business so long as such trade
accounts payable are payable within 90 days of the date the respective
goods are delivered or the respective services are rendered;
(c) indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on the property of such
Person, whether or not the respective indebtedness so secured has been assumed
by such Person; (d) obligations of such Person in respect of letters of
credit or similar instruments issued or accepted by banks and other financial
institutions for the account of such Person; (e) Capitalized Lease
Obligations of such Person; (f) the net amount of any mark to market
exposure under Derivatives Obligations of such Person; (g) without
duplication, obligations of such Person under Guarantees of Indebtedness of
others; and (h) all preferred stock issued by such Person and required by
the terms thereof to be redeemed, or for which mandatory sinking fund payments
are due, by a fixed date (but only to the extent such fixed date occurs prior to
June 30, 2010).  

Indemnified
Party  . As defined in Section 6.14(d).  

Intercreditor
Agreement  . That certain Intercreditor and Lockbox Administration
Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2005, among Interpool Container Funding,
SRL, Interpool Containers Limited, U.S. Bank National Association, as lockbox
administrator, DVB Bank N.V., Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. and such other
equipment owners and equipment lenders named therein or as may become a party
from time to time, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented in
accordance with its terms, including as supplemented by the execution of any
joinder agreement.  

Intercreditor
Documents  . The Intercreditor Agreement and the Lockbox Agreement.  

Intermediary  .        PNC Bank,
National Association.  

Interest
Period  . With respect of any Credit Loan, the period commencing on (i)
initially, the Closing Date thereof and (ii) thereafter, any Payment Date to
(but excluding) the next following Payment Date (or, if applicable, the Maturity
Date).  

Investment  . The purchase
or acquisition of any share of capital stock, partnership or limited liability
company interest, evidence of indebtedness or other equity security of any other
Person; any loan, advance or extension of credit to, or contribution to the
capital of, any other Person, other than extensions of credit resulting from the
sale of goods (where the Borrower retains title to, or a security interest in,
any Equipment sold) or rendering of services in the ordinary course of the
Borrower s business; any real estate held for sale or investment; any
commodities futures contracts held other than in connection with bona fide
hedging transactions; any other investment in any other Person; and the making
of any commitment or acquisition of any option to make any such Investment.  

Law  .
Any law (including common law), constitution, statute, treaty, convention,
regulation, rule, ordinance, order, injunction, writ, decree or award of any
Governmental Authority.  

Lease  .
All leases or contracts for use or hire of the Equipment by a Lessee and the
Borrower (or one of its Affiliates acting as agent for the Borrower) as lessor,
to the extent such leases or contracts relate to such Equipment.  

Lease
Income  . For any period of determination an amount equal to the sum of
(i) all rentals, insurance proceeds and other monies which are payable to
the Borrower under, or in respect of, a Lease of Equipment and which relate to
such Equipment, and (ii) all other rent, hire, requisition hire, and other
earnings, payments, damages and monies whatsoever payable to the Borrower, or to
which the Borrower is at any time entitled by law or contract, in respect of any
such Equipment, including, without limitation, any moneys received by the
Borrower in connection with the exercise of any purchase option by a
Lessee.  

Lender(s)  . Individually,
each of the banks or financial institutions signatory hereto, and each of their
respective successors and permitted assigns and collectively, all such banks or
other financial institutions and their respective successors and permitted
assigns.   

Lessee  . A person that is contractually obligated to make rental
and other payments under a Lease, including any guarantor of such obligations.

Lessee Default
Amount  . With respect to a Defaulted Lease, as at any date of
determination, an amount equal to the aggregate Net Present Value of all
Equipment then subject to such Defaulted Lease.  

Lessee Early
Termination Amount  . With respect to a Lessee Terminated Lease, as at any
date of determination, an amount equal to the aggregate Net Present Value of all
Equipment then subject to such Lessee Terminated Lease.  

Lessee
Terminated Lease  . A Lease that is pledged to the Agent, on behalf of the
Lenders, for which the related Lessee has exercised a contractual right to
terminate such Lease, including a termination in connection with the exercise of
a purchase option set forth in such Lease, prior to expiration of the stated
term thereof upon payment in full of the termination fee set forth in such
Lease.  

LIBOR  .
For any Interest Period and Credit Loan, (a) in respect of the initial
Interest Period for any Borrowing or if such Interest Period is for a period of
other than three months (as would be the case for the Interest Period ending on
the Maturity Date, Lender s cost of funds for such period and
(b) otherwise, the rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the
nearest 1/100 of 1%) appearing on Telerate Page 3750 (or any successor
page) as the London LIBOR for deposits in Dollars at approximately
11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such
Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period. If for any reason
such rate is not available, the term  LIBOR  means, for any Credit
Loan for any Interest Period therefor, the rate (rounded upward, if necessary,
to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point), determined on the
basis of the offered rates for deposits in Dollars for a period of three months
which are offered by four major banks, as selected by the Agent, in the London
interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time, on the day that
is two (2) Business Days preceding the first day of such Interest Period. The
principal London office of each of such four major London banks will be
requested to provide a quotation of its Dollar deposit offered rate. If at least
two such quotations are provided, the rate for that date will be the arithmetic
mean of the quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided as requested,
the rate for that date will be determined on the basis of the rates quoted for
loans in Dollars to leading European banks (as selected by the Agent) for a
period of three months offered by major banks in New York City at
approximately 11:00 a.m. New York City time, on the day that is two
Business Days preceding the first day of such Interest Period. In the event that
the Agent is unable to obtain any such quotation as provided above, it will be
deemed that the Eurodollar Rate for such Credit Loan cannot be determined, and
the  Eurodollar Rate  shall be the Base Rate for so long as such
condition continues.  

Lien  .Any mortgage, pledge, security interest, lien or other charge or encumbrance,
including the lien or retained security title of a conditional vendor, upon or
with respect to any property or assets.  

Loan Documents  .
This Agreement, the Notes, the Security Documents, the Parent Guaranty, the Fee
Letter, the Intercreditor Documents and all other instruments and agreements
required to be executed and delivered by the Borrower or the Parent Guarantor,
in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.  

Lockbox
Agreement  . That certain Lockbox Agreement, dated as of November 30,
2005, among Interpool Container Funding, SRL, Interpool Contains Limited, U.S.
Bank National Association, as lockbox administrator, the Agent, Fortis Bank
(Nederland) N.V., PNC Bank, National Association and such other equipment owners
and equipment lenders named therein or as may become a party from time to time,
as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented in accordance with
its terms, including as supplemented by the execution of any joinder
agreement.  

Majority
Lenders  . Lenders holding more than 50% of the Credit Loans.  

Materially
Adverse Effect  . Any change in the financial condition of the Parent
Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or of the Borrower considered
individually, which could reasonably be expected to have a materially adverse
effect upon the respective ability of the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower to
perform any obligations under this Agreement or under any other Loan Document to
which it is a party, or any act, omission, event or undertaking which could
reasonable be expected to have a materially adverse effect upon the legality,
validity, binding effect, enforceability or admissibility into evidence of any
Loan Document or the ability of the Agent to enforce any rights or remedies
under or in connection with any Loan Document in any material respect whether
resulting from any single act, omission, event, or undertaking, together with
other such acts, omissions, events or undertakings.  

Maturity
Date  . For any Tranche: (i) in the case of the Tranche A Loans, December
21, 2010 and (ii) in the case of the Tranche B Loans, December 21, 2006 unless
the Term-Out Option shall have been duly elected, in which case December 22,
2008.  

Maximum
Amount  . As defined in Section 2.1(a).  

Monitoring
System  . As defined in Section 6.3.  

Net
Income  . For any fiscal period of the Parent Guarantor, the consolidated
net income of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such
period determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles.  

Net Present
Value  . As of any date of determination with respect to an item of
Eligible Equipment and the associated Lease, an amount equal to the net present
value of the scheduled rental payments from and after such date of calculation
due under such Lease in respect of such Equipment and any purchase price payable
by the Lessee under such Lease upon the exercise of a purchase option thereunder
with respect to such Equipment, in each case discounted at 7.913% per annum (on
the basis of a year of 360 days and actual number of days elapsed).  

Note  .
A Tranche A Note or a Tranche B Note.  

Notice of
Assignment  . In respect of any Lease subject to a Security Agreement, a
notice of assignment, duly completed (or delivered in blank) in a manner
satisfactory to the Agent for the purposes of the Security Agreement, in
substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit C.  

Notice of
Borrowing  . A certificate, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto,
executed by the Borrower.  

Obligations  . All indebtedness, obligations and liabilities of the
Borrower and the Parent Guarantor to the Agent, and/or the Lenders existing on
the date of this Agreement or arising thereafter, whether direct or indirect,
joint or several, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, liquidated or
unliquidated, secured or unsecured, arising by contract, operation of law or
otherwise under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan
Documents.  

Officers'
Certificate  . A certificate signed on behalf of a corporation by an
Authorized Officer.  

Parent
Guarantor  . Interpool, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of
the State of Delaware, and its successors and permitted assigns.  

Parent
Guaranty  . The Guaranty of the Parent Guarantor substantially in the form
of Exhibit G, as the same may be amended, supplemented, restated, replaced or
otherwise modified from time to time.  

Participant(s)  . As defined in Section 17(f).  

Payment
Date  . The Payment Date shall be (a) for the Tranche A Loans, each date
specified in Schedule 3 in the column headed "Payment Date"; or (b) for the
Tranche B Loans, each date specified in Schedule 4 in the column headed "Payment
Date".  

PBGC  .
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation created by ERISA or any governmental
authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation.  

Permitted
Liens  . With respect to any item of Collateral, any or all of the
following: (i) with respect to an item of Equipment, Liens for taxes not yet
delinquent or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings
and for the payment of which adequate reserves are maintained; (ii) with respect
to an item of Equipment, carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics, or other like
Liens arising in the ordinary course of business and relating to amounts not yet
due or which shall not have been overdue for a period of more than sixty days or
which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for the
payment of which adequate reserves are maintained; provided, however, in no
event shall any such contest result in the loss of the affected item of
Equipment; (iii) with respect to any item of Equipment, Leases entered into in
the ordinary course of business providing for the leasing of such Equipment;
(iv) with respect to any item of Equipment then on lease to a Lessee, any
purchase option in favor of such lessee that is set forth in such Lease; (v)
with respect to an item of Equipment, Liens permitted by the applicable Lease to
the extent not covered by any of the preceding clauses; and (vi) Liens created
by the Security Agreements; provided that (A) any proceedings of the type
described in clauses (i) and (ii) above could not reasonably be expected to
subject the Agent or any Lender to any civil or criminal penalty or liability or
involve any significant risk of material loss, sale or forfeiture of all, or any
material portion of, the Collateral and (B) any Lien of the type described in
clause (ii) shall no longer be a "Permitted" Lien if the lienor shall have filed
a lien of record in respect of the related obligation any time after such amount
shall be past due.  

Person  . An individual, any partnership, a corporation, a joint
venture, a trust, an unincorporated organization, or a government or any agency
or political subdivision thereof.  

Plan  .
At any time, an employee pension or other benefit plan that is subject to Title
IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the
Code and is either (a) maintained by the Borrower or any member of the
Controlled Group for employees of the Borrower or any member of the Controlled
Group, or (b) if such Plan is established, maintained pursuant to a collective
bargaining agreement or any other arrangement under which more than one employer
makes contributions and to which the Borrower or any member of the Controlled
Group is then making or accruing an obligation to make contributions or has
within the preceding five Plan years made contributions.  

Prepayment
Tolerance  . As defined in Section 2.7(b) hereof.  

Prime
Rate  . The prime or base rate of interest announced from time to time by
Citibank, N.A.  

Pro
Rata  . For any Lender, its proportionate share based on the percentage
set opposite its name on Schedule 2 hereto.  

Proceeds  . The meaning assigned to such term under the UCC.  

Prohibited
Institution  . Any institution designated by the Borrower as a "prohibited
institution" in a side letter delivered to the Agent; provided, however, that:
(i) no more than five (5) institutions may be listed at any one time as a
"prohibited institution", (ii) such prohibited institution may only be an
institution at which the Borrower or its Affiliates maintains a bank account,
and (iii) designations may only be made prospectively.  

Prohibited
Jurisdiction  . Any country or jurisdiction, (a) from time to time, that
is subject of a prohibition order (or any similar order or directive), sanctions
or restrictions promulgated or administered by the Office of Foreign Assets
Control of the United States Treasury Department and (b) in which, or for which,
a Lender or any assignee thereof is otherwise prohibited or restricted on the
Closing Date and as disclosed in writing to the Borrower, under laws,
regulations, sanctions or restrictions applicable to it or its business, from
extending credit, transferring property or assets, engaging in or facilitating
trade or other economic activity, or otherwise doing business.  

Prohibited
Person  . Any Person appearing on the Specially Designated Nationals List
compiled and disseminated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United
States Treasury Department, as the same may be amended from time to
time.  

Register  . As defined in Section 17(c).  

Regulation D,
U and X  . Regulations D, U and X, respectively, of the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.  

Scheduled
Principal Payment  . For the Tranche A Notes, an amount, for any Payment
Date, equal to the amount set forth for such Payment Date on Schedule 3;
provided that such Schedule 3 shall be subject to amendment and replacement as
provided in Section 2.7(e). For the Tranche B Notes, an amount, for any Payment
Date, equal to the amount set forth for such Payment Date on Schedule 4 and, if
the Term-Out Option shall have been effected, the installments specified in
Section 2.3(b); provided that such Schedule 4 shall be subject to amendment and
replacement as provided in Section 2.7(e).  

Security Agreement  . The Security Agreement, between the Borrower and the Agent substantially in the form
of Exhibit F hereto.  

Security
Agreement Supplement  . A supplement to the Security Agreement in
substantially the form of Exhibit A to the Security Agreement.  

Security
Documents  . The Security Agreement, each Security Agreement Supplement,
the Account Control Agreement, the UCC Financing Statements and the Statement of
Charge filed with the Corporate Affairs Registry in Barbados.  

Servicing
Agreement  . The Servicing Agreement that has or will be entered into
between the Borrower, as Servicer, and Interpool Container Funding II, SRL, as
Purchaser.  

Specified
Indebtedness  . Any Indebtedness of the type described in clauses (a),
(b), (c), (d), (e) and (g) of the definition thereof; provided that any
Guarantee referred to such clause (g) shall relate only to Indebtedness of the
type described in clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of such definition.  

Subsidiary  . Any present or future Corporation a majority of whose
Voting Stock shall at the time be owned directly or indirectly or can otherwise
be controlled by the Parent Guarantor and/or by one or more of the Subsidiaries
of the Parent Guarantor.  

Substitute
Equipment  . As defined in Section 5.  

Tangible Net
Worth  . As of any date of determination the amount equal to (A) the
amount of stockholders equity and warrant liability of the Parent Guarantor and
its Consolidated Subsidiaries appearing in the consolidated financial statements
of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the most
recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are available and
prepared in accordance with GAAP, less (B) trademarks, goodwill, covenants not
to compete and all other assets classified as intangible assets determined in
accordance with GAAP, plus (C) the amount representing the Parent Guarantor's
9-7/8% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2027 and the
related 9-7/8% Capital Securities of Interpool Capital on the consolidated
balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of
the most recently ended fiscal quarter for which financial statements are
available, plus (D) the amount representing the 9.25% Convertible Redeemable
Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2022 on the consolidated balance sheet of the
Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the most recently ended
fiscal quarter for which financial statements are available plus, (E) any future
subordinated debt of Parent Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, plus
(or minus) (F) any adjustments to the accounts of the Parent Guarantor, both
positive and negative, that results from SFAS 133/138. In this regard, "SFAS
133/138" means, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 -
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" and Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 138 - "Accounting for Certain Derivative
Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities, an amendment to FASB Statement No.
133" issued by the Financial Accounting Standard Board, as such pronouncement
may be amended from time to time.  

Taxes  . Any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts,
duties, fees, assessments, deductions, withholdings or other charges of whatever
nature, including gross receipts, excise, property, sales, transfer, license,
payroll, social security and franchise taxes now or hereafter imposed or levied
by the United States of America, or any state, local or foreign government or by
any department, agency or other political subdivision or taxing authority
thereof and all interest, penalties, additions to tax or similar liabilities
with respect thereto.  

Term-Out
Option  . Is the right of the Borrower to term-out the Tranche B Loans as
provided in Section 2.18 hereof.  

Term-Out
Period  . The period from December 22, 2006 to December 22, 2008.  

Total
Assets  . As of any date of determination, the consolidated assets of the
Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, as reflected on a consolidated balance
sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP.  

Tranche  . Either a Tranche A Loan or a Tranche B Loan, or relating
to either thereof.  

Tranche A
Loan  . As defined in Section 2.1(b).  

Tranche A
Note  . A Note issued as "Tranche A" in accordance with Section 2.1(a) and
any such note issued in exchange or replacement therefor pursuant to Section
17(b).  

Tranche B
Loan  . As defined in Section 2.1(b).  

Tranche B
Note  . A Note issued as "Tranche B" in accordance with Section 2.1(a) and
any such note issued in exchange or replacement therefor pursuant to Section
17(b).  

UCC   or
  Uniform Commercial Code  . The Uniform Commercial Code as the same may be
in effect in the State of New York on the date hereof; provided, however, that
in the event that by reason of mandatory provisions of law, any or all of the
attachment, perfection or priority of Agent's security interest in any
Collateral is governed by the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in a
jurisdiction other than the State of New York, the term UCC shall mean the
Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in such other jurisdiction for purposes of
the provisions hereof relating to such attachment, perfection of priority and
for purposes of definitions related to such provisions.  

UCC Financing
Statements  . UCC Financing Statements naming the Borrower as debtor and
the Agent as secured party and filed or to be filed in the office of the
Secretary of State of the State of New Jersey, the Recorder of Deeds for the
District of Columbia and other locations from time to time with respect to the
Collateral.  

Voting
Stock  . With respect to any Corporation, its capital stock of any class
having ordinary voting power for the election of the members of the board of
directors or other governing body of such Corporation (other than stock having
such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency).  

1.2  Rules of
Interpretation .  

(a) All terms in this Agreement, the Exhibits and Schedules hereto shall have
the same defined meanings when used in any other Loan Documents, unless the
context shall require otherwise.  

(b) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all financial and accounting
terms not specifically defined or specified herein shall have the meanings
generally attributed to such terms under Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles, including applicable statements and interpretations issued by the
Financial Accounting Standards Board and bulletins, opinions, interpretations
and statements issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
or its committees, and all financial and accounting calculations referred to
herein shall, to the extent applicable, be made in accordance with Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles, and by reference to the most recently delivered
financial statements of the Parent Guarantor furnished in accordance with
Section 6.4 hereof.  

(c) All personal pronouns used in this Agreement, whether used in the masculine,
feminine or neuter gender, shall include all other genders; the singular shall
include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular.  

(d) The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import
when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to
any particular provisions of this Agreement.  

(e) The preamble hereto is part of this Agreement. Titles of Sections in this
Agreement are for convenience only, do not constitute part of this Agreement and
neither limit nor amplify the provisions of this Agreement, and all references
in this Agreement to Sections, Subsections, paragraphs, clauses, subclauses,
Schedules or Exhibits shall refer to the corresponding Section, Subsection,
paragraph, clause, subclause, Schedule or Exhibit attached to this Agreement,
unless specific reference is made to the articles, sections or other
subdivisions or divisions of such Schedule or Exhibit to or in another document
or instrument.  

(f)      Each definition of a document in this Agreement shall include such document as amended, modified,
supplemented, restated, renewed or extended from time to time.  

(g)      Except where specifically restricted, reference to a party in a Loan Document includes that party and
its successors and assigns permitted hereunder or under such Loan Document.  

(h)      Unless otherwise specifically stated, whenever a time is referred to in this Agreement or in any other
Loan Document, such time shall be the local time in the city in which the Agent is headquartered.  

(i)      Any list in this Agreement of one or more items preceded by the words "include" or "including" shall not
be deemed limited to the stated items but shall be deemed without limitation.  

(j)      Whenever this Agreement makes reference to a party's knowledge, such knowledge shall refer to the actual
knowledge of an Authorized Officer of such party, without having made a special inquiry.  

Section
2.        The Credit Loans .  

2.1  The Credit
Loans .  

(a) Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower shall be entitled
to borrow from the Lenders on the Closing Date loans in respect of the Equipment
and Leases (the  Credit Loans ). The maximum amount of Credit Loans that may be
borrowed on the Closing Date shall not exceed the lesser of (i) the Borrowing
Base and (ii) the Available Commitment (the  Maximum Amount ).  

(b)      The Credit Loans will be in two tranches:   "Tranche A Loans"   will equal 85% of the Maximum Amount and
 "Tranche B Loans"  will equal 15% of the Maximum Amount. The Tranche A Loans and Tranche B Loans will have the
characteristics identified herein.  

(c)      Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, on the Closing Date each Lender will fund its Pro Rata
portion of the Credit Loans of the Tranche(s) of which it has a Commitment.  

(d)      The obligation of each Lender to make Credit Loans as provided in this Section 2.1 (for any Lender, its
 Commitment ) shall expire, and shall be of no further effect, on the Closing Date. The Commitments of each Lender
in respect of each Tranche is set forth on Schedule 2.  

(e)      Any Borrowing by the Borrower of a Credit Loan shall require at least three Business Day's prior written
notice of such Borrowing to the Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders thereof), which notice shall be in
the form of a Notice of Borrowing.  

2.2  The
Notes . The obligation of the Borrower to repay the Credit Loans and to pay
interest thereon and other sums which may become payable with respect thereto
shall be evidenced by promissory notes issued by the Borrower substantially in
the form of Exhibit A hereto, duly completed and executed by the Borrower. Each
such Note shall be designated as having been delivered in connection with a
particular Tranche (a "Tranche A Note" or a "Tranche B Note," as the case may
be). Each such Note issued to any Lender shall be in an amount equal to its
Commitment for the applicable Tranche.  

2.3  Principal
Payments on the Notes .  

(a)  Tranche A Loans . On each Payment Date, the Borrower shall pay to the
Agent for account of each holder of a Tranche A Note an amount equal to the
Scheduled Principal Payment due in respect of the Tranche A Loans.  

(b)  Tranche B Loans . Unless the Term-Out Option shall have been elected
and effected, on each Payment Date, the Borrower shall pay to the Agent for
account of each holder of a Tranche B Note an amount equal to the Scheduled
Principal Payment due in respect of the Tranche B Loans. If the Term-Out Option
shall have been elected and effected, during the Term-Out Period, the balloon
element of the Scheduled Principal Payment that was otherwise due on December
21, 2006, (and not the regular amortization element of the Scheduled Principal
Payment due in respect of the Tranche B Note on December 21, 2006, which will be
payable as a Scheduled Principal Payment on December 21, 2006 in any event),
(the  Tranche B Balloon ) shall instead be payable in 24 equal monthly
installments, the first of which shall be payable on December 22, 2006.  

(c) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account
or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting
from each Credit Loan made by such Lender to the Borrower, including the amounts
of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender by or for account of
the Borrower from time to time hereunder.  

(d)      The Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Credit Loan made
hereunder to the Borrower and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or
interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the
amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for account of the Lenders and each Lender's
share thereof.  

(e) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (c) or (d)
of this Section shall be
 prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein;  provided   that the failure
of any Lender or the Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the
obligation of the Borrower to repay the Credit Loans borrowed by it in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement.  

2.4  Interest on
the Credit Loans .  

(a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent for account of the Lenders on each
Payment Date interest on the outstanding principal amount of each Credit Loan
made to it at the Applicable Rate for the Interest Period ending on such Payment
Date (calculated on the basis of a year of 360 days and actual number of days
elapsed).  

(b) In no event shall the interest charged with respect to a Credit Loan exceed
the maximum amount permitted by applicable law. If at any time the interest rate
charged with respect to a Credit Loan exceeds the maximum rate permitted by
applicable law, the rate of interest to accrue pursuant to such Credit Loan
shall be limited to the maximum rate permitted by applicable law, but any
subsequent reductions in Eurodollar Rate shall not reduce the interest to accrue
on such Credit Loan below the maximum amount permitted by applicable law until
the total amount of interest accrued on such Credit Loan equals the amount of
interest that would have accrued if a varying rate per annum equal to the
interest rate had at all times been in effect. If the total amount of interest
paid or accrued on the Credit Loans under the foregoing provisions is less than
the total amount of interest that would have accrued if the interest rate had at
all times been in effect, the Borrower agrees to pay to the affected Lender(s)
an amount equal to the difference between (a) the lesser of (i) the amount of
interest that would have accrued if the maximum rate permitted by applicable law
had at all times been in effect, or (ii) the amount of interest that would have
accrued if the interest rate had at all times been in effect, and (b) the amount
of interest accrued in accordance with the other provisions of this
Agreement.  

(c) All computations of interest hereunder shall be made on the basis of a year
of 360 days and actual number of days elapsed. Each overdue amount payable to
the Agent or the Lenders under this Agreement or any Note, whether of principal,
interest, Funding Losses, or otherwise, as applicable, shall, to the extent
permitted by applicable law, bear interest from the due date thereof to the date
such amount is paid in full (whether before or after judgment) at the Default
Rate from time to time in effect, compounded daily and payable by the applicable
Borrower(s) upon demand by the Agent or any Lender at any time and from time to
time.  

2.5  Available
Commitments . The Available Commitment shall be terminated automatically on
the Closing Date upon the borrowing of the Credit Loans. The Available
Commitment once terminated may not be reinstated.  

2.6  Fees .
The Borrower shall pay (i) the fees specified in the Fee Letter as and when due;
and (ii) the Agent's fee of $20,000 per annum payable in arrears on each
anniversary of the Closing Date.  

2.7
 Prepayments .  

(a)  Voluntary Prepayment . Upon not less than ten Business Days' prior
written notice to the Agent, the Borrower may at any time prepay in whole, or in
part (in minimum increments of $3,000,000 and multiples thereof), the then
unpaid principal amount of the Credit Loans borrowed by it. The Credit Loans
shall not otherwise be subject to voluntary prepayment . In connection with any
prepayment made in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.7(a), the
Borrower shall be required to pay, contemporaneously with such prepayment, an
amount equal to the sum of (i) accrued interest on the principal balance being
prepaid, calculated through the date of such prepayment, and (ii) any Funding
Losses incurred as the result of such prepayment.  

(b)  Mandatory Prepayments for Event of Loss . Subject to Section 5.1, on
each Payment Date, the Borrower shall make a mandatory prepayment of the Notes
in an amount equal to the amount (if any) equal to the sum of the Casualty
Payment Amounts for all items of Equipment that became a Casualty Item in the
third preceding calendar month; provided, however, that if the amount (when
added to any prepayment amount due under Section 2.7(c)) of any such prepayment
due on any Payment Date would be less than $1,000,000 (the  "Prepayment
Tolerance" ), then such prepayment shall be deferred until such later Payment
Date as the aggregate amounts owing by the Borrower pursuant to this Section
2.7(b) and Section 2.7(c) would exceed the Prepayment Tolerance. The amount of a
prepayment made in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.7(b) shall
be applied to reduce the unpaid principal balance of the Notes on a pro rata
basis, calculated based on the then unpaid principal balance of all Notes. Any
prepayment of the Notes of any Tranche made in accordance with the provisions of
this Section 2.7(b) shall reduce future Scheduled Principal Payments relating to
such Tranche pro rata. In connection with any prepayment made in accordance with
the provisions of this Section 2.7(b), the Borrower shall be required to pay,
contemporaneously with such prepayment, an amount equal to the sum of (i)
accrued interest on the principal balance being prepaid, calculated through the
date of such prepayment, and (ii) any Funding Losses incurred as the result of
such prepayment.  

(c)  Mandatory Prepayments for Lessee Defaults . On each Payment Date, the
Borrower shall make a mandatory prepayment of the Notes in an amount equal to
the sum of the Lessee Default Amounts for all Leases that were initially
classified as a Defaulted Lease in the third preceding calendar month and
continue to be Defaulted Leases; provided, however, that if the Prepayment
Tolerance level is not met, then such prepayment shall be deferred until such
later Payment Date as the aggregate amounts owing by the Borrower pursuant to
Section 2.7(b) and this Section 2.7(c) would exceed the Prepayment Tolerance.
The amount of a prepayment made in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 2.7(c) shall be applied to reduce the unpaid principal balance of the
Notes on a pro rata basis, calculated based on the then unpaid principal balance
of all Notes. Any prepayment of the Notes of any Tranche made in accordance with
the provisions of this Section 2.7(c) shall reduce future Scheduled Principal
Payments relating to such Tranche  pro rata . In connection with any
prepayment made in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.7(c), the
Borrower shall be required to pay, contemporaneously with such prepayment, an
amount equal to the sum of (i) accrued interest on the principal balance being
prepaid, calculated through the date of such prepayment, and (ii) any Funding
Losses incurred as the result of such prepayment.  

(d)  Mandatory Prepayments for Lessee Early Terminations . On each Payment
Date, the Borrower shall make a mandatory prepayment of the Notes in an amount
equal to the amount (if any) by which the sum of the Lessee Early Termination
Amounts for all Lessee Terminated Leases for Leases that were terminated by the
Lessee in the third preceding calendar month. The amount of a prepayment made in
accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.7(d) shall be applied to reduce
the unpaid principal balance of Notes on a  pro rata  basis, calculated
based on the then unpaid principal balance of all Notes. Any prepayment of the
Notes of any Tranche made in accordance with the provisions of this Section
2.7(d) shall reduce future Scheduled Principal Payments of the related Tranche
 pro rata . In connection with any prepayment made in accordance with the
provisions of this Section 2.7(d), the Borrower shall be required to pay,
contemporaneously with such prepayment, an amount equal to the sum of (i)
accrued interest on the principal balance being prepaid, calculated through the
date of such prepayment, and (ii) any Funding Losses incurred as the result of
such prepayment.  

(e)  Revised Schedule . In respect of each Credit Loan affected by a
prepayment of the related Notes in accordance with this Section 2.7, the Agent
will, to the extent necessary, recalculate the amounts set forth in Schedules 3
and 4 to reflect a prepayment of such Notes, which recalculated amounts shall be
furnished by the Agent to the Borrower and each Lender, and which shall be
conclusive absent manifest error.  

(f)  General Provisions . The Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of
any notice of prepayment (and the contents thereof) received by it. The amount
of a partial prepayment made in accordance with the provisions of this Section
2.7 shall be applied to reduce the unpaid principal balance of the Credit Loans
on a  pro rata  basis, calculated based on the then unpaid principal
balance of all such Notes. In connection with any prepayment made in accordance
with the provisions of this Section 2.7, the Borrower shall be required to pay,
contemporaneously with such prepayment, an amount equal to the sum of (i)
accrued interest on the principal balance being prepaid, calculated through the
date of such prepayment, and (ii) any Funding Losses incurred as the result of
such prepayment.  

(g)  Releases . Following any prepayment contemplated by clauses (b), (c)
and (d) above, the Borrower may request the Agent to release from the Lien of
the Security Agreement the Containers and Leases relating to such prepayment,
and the Agent shall promptly execute and deliver such instruments as the
Borrower shall deliver to it evidencing such release.  

2.8  Illegality
or Impossibility . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if
on any date: (a) the introduction of, change in, or change in the interpretation
by any central bank or other Governmental Authority of, any Law or regulation
applicable to any Lender shall make it unlawful, or any central bank or other
governmental authority having jurisdiction thereof shall assert that it is
unlawful for any Lender to permit a Credit Loan to be loaned on a Eurodollar
Rate Basis in accordance with the provisions hereof, or (b) if any Lender shall
reasonably determine that: (i) by reason of circumstances affecting the
Eurodollar interbank market, adequate and reasonable methods do not exist for
ascertaining the Eurodollar Rate which would otherwise be applicable during any
Interest Period, (ii) deposits of Dollars in the relevant amount and for the
relevant Interest Period are not available to such Lender in the Eurodollar
interbank market, or (iii) the Eurodollar Rate does not or will not accurately
reflect the cost to such Lender of maintaining any Credit Loan on a Eurodollar
Rate Basis during any Interest Period, then such affected Lender shall promptly
give facsimile or other written notice of such determination to the Agent, and
the Agent shall promptly give facsimile or other written notice of such
determination to the Borrower (which notice shall be conclusive and binding upon
the Borrower) and to the other Lenders. Upon such notification by the Agent, the
obligation of the affected Lender(s) to lend or maintain any Credit Loan on the
applicable Eurodollar Rate Basis shall be suspended until the affected Lender
determines that such circumstances no longer exist and the Credit Loans held by
the affected Lenders shall thereupon bear interest at the Base Rate. Upon such
notification and suspension by the Agent, the Borrower may prepay immediately
the affected Credit Loans borrowed by it in full without penalty or premium;
 provided, however  that the Borrower shall pay all of the following: (i)
any Funding Losses, (ii) accrued interest on the principal balance being
prepaid, calculated through the date of such prepayment and (iii) any additional
amounts or fees payable to each of the Lenders pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement.  

2.9  Additional
Costs and Expenses; Reserve Charge; Capital Requirements .  

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if after the date
hereof the enactment of, change in or change in the interpretation of any Law
(which expression, as used herein, includes statutes, rules and regulations
thereunder and interpretations thereof by any competent court or by any
governmental or other regulatory body or official charged with the
administration or interpretation thereof, and requests, directives, instructions
and notices at any time or from time to time hereafter made upon or otherwise
issued to any Lender by any central bank or other fiscal, monetary or other
authority, whether or not having the force of law) shall: (i) subject any Lender
to any tax, levy, impost, duty, charge, fee, deduction or withholding of any
nature with respect to this Agreement or with respect to maintaining any Credit
Loan on a Eurodollar Rate Basis (except for Taxes on the overall net income of
such Lender or any franchise Taxes in lieu thereof); or (ii) materially change
the basis of taxation of payments to any Lender of the principal of, interest or
any other amounts payable by the Borrower while a Credit Loan is on a Eurodollar
Rate Basis; or (iii) impose or increase or render applicable any special deposit
or reserve or similar requirements against assets held by, or deposits in or for
the respective accounts of, or loans (including the Credit Loans) made by or
commitments (including the Commitment) of any Lender; or (iv) impose on any
Lender any other conditions or requirements with respect to this Agreement, and
the result of any of the foregoing is: (A) to increase the cost to such Lender
of maintaining its Commitment or a Credit Loan on a Eurodollar Rate Basis; or
(B) to reduce the amount of principal, interest or other amount payable to such
Lender hereunder; or (C) to require such Lender to make any payment or to forego
any interest or other sum payable hereunder, the amount of which payment or
foregone interest or other sum is calculated by reference to the gross amount of
any sum receivable or deemed received by the Agent from the Borrower hereunder,
then, and in each such case, such Lender shall promptly after its determination
of such occurrence give notice thereof to the Agent, and thereafter the Agent
shall promptly give notice thereof to the Borrower, and the Borrower shall, upon
demand made by the Agent (following notice thereof from the affected Lender to
the Agent) at any time and from time to time as often as the occasion therefor
may arise, pay to the Agent such additional amounts as will be sufficient, in
the reasonable judgment of the affected Lender, to compensate such Lender for
such additional costs, reduction, payment or foregone interest or other
amount.  

(b) If any Lender shall have determined that: (i) the adoption of or change
after the date hereof in any Law, rule, regulation or guideline regarding
capital requirements for banks or bank holding companies, or any change after
the date hereof in the interpretation or administration thereof by any
Governmental Authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the
interpretation or administration thereof, (ii) the implementation after the date
hereof of any Law, rule, regulation or guideline regarding capital requirements
implementing the capital adequacy framework agreement commonly known as Basle
II, or (iii) compliance by such Lender or its parent bank holding company with
any guideline, request or directive of such entity issued after the date hereof
regarding capital adequacy (whether or not having the force of law) has or would
have the effect of reducing the return on such Lender's or such holding
company's capital as a consequence of the Commitment of such Lender or any
Credit Loan made by such Lender pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to a
level below that which such Lender could have achieved (taking into
consideration such Lender's policies with respect to capital adequacy
immediately before such adoption, change or compliance, or implementation, and
assuming that such Lender's capital was fully utilized prior to such adoption,
change or compliance) but for such adoption, change or compliance, then (A) such
Lender shall promptly after its determination of such occurrence give notice
thereof to the Agent, and thereafter the Agent shall promptly give notice
thereof to the Borrower; and (B) the Borrower shall promptly pay to the Agent
(and in any event within ten (10) Business Days after demand) for the respective
account(s) of the affected Lender(s), as an additional fee such amount as each
affected Lender(s) shall have certified to the Agent to be the amount that will
compensate it for such reduction, provided however, that if an affected Lender
fails to notify the Borrower of such additional costs, reductions, foregone
interest or other amounts within ninety (90) days after such Lender obtains
actual notice that such amounts have been or will be incurred, then such Lender
should only be entitled to payment of such costs, reductions or other amounts
incurred from and after the date 90 days prior to the date on which the affected
Lender gives such notice.  

(c) In lieu of paying any amount specified by the preceding paragraphs (a) and
(b), the Borrower shall have the option to prepay immediately the Credit Loan
borrowed by it in full (together with accrued interest thereon) without penalty
or premium except for (i) any Funding Losses that may become due and payable as
a consequence of such prepayment, (ii) accrued interest on the principal balance
being prepaid, calculated through the date of such prepayment and (iii) any
additional amounts or fees payable to each of the Lenders pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.9(b) or (c) that were not eliminated by virtue of such
prepayment.  

2.10  The Agent's
or Lender's Certificates . A certificate signed by the Agent or any Lender
setting forth any additional amount required to be paid by the Borrower to the
Agent pursuant to the provisions of any of Sections 2.8, 2.9 or 2.17 shall be
delivered by the Agent to the Borrower in connection with each demand made at
any time upon the Borrower under any of such sections. Each such certificate
shall set forth the nature of the occurrence giving rise to such compensation,
the additional amount or amounts to be paid to it hereunder and the method by
which such amounts were determined, which may include any reasonable averaging
and attribution methods. Each such certificate shall, absent manifest error, be
deemed true and correct evidence of the additional amount required to be paid by
the Borrower to the Agent. A claim by the Agent for all or any part of any
additional amount required to be paid by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions
of any of Sections 2.8, 2.9 and 2.17 may be made before and/or after the end of
the Interest Period to which such claim relates or during which such claim has
arisen and before and/or after any repayment or prepayment of any amount owed
hereunder to which such claim relates.  

2.11      Pro Rata Treatment .  Except as expressly set forth herein, principal and interest payments and amounts
received in payment of the Notes for any reason and from any source shall be applied  pro rata  among the Lenders
in accordance with the proportion of outstanding Credit Loans made by each Lender to all outstanding Credit
Loans.  All other payments, including commitment fees, received by the Agent from, or on behalf of, the Borrower
hereunder shall, unless specifically attributable to the Agent or a Lender or otherwise provided herein, be
applied on a  pro rata  basis among the Lenders based upon the proportion of outstanding Credit Loans of each
Lender to the Aggregate Note Principal Balance.  

2.12  Receipt and
Disbursement of Funds . (a) Upon receipt of a Notice of Borrowing, the
Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the contents thereof
and of such Lender's share (if any) of such Borrowing and such Notice of
Borrowing shall not thereafter be revocable by the Borrower furnishing such
notice.  

(b) Not later than 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the date of the Borrowing,
each Lender participating therein shall make available its share of such
Borrowing, in U.S. Dollars in funds immediately available in New York City, to
the Administrative Agent for account of the applicable Borrower, at the Agent's
account specified on Schedule 1 (or to such other account as the Agent shall
advise the Lenders in writing). Unless the Agent determines that any applicable
condition specified in Section 4 has not been satisfied, the Agent will make the
funds so received from the Lenders available to the Borrower by depositing the
same, in immediately available funds, in an account of the Borrower designated
by the Borrower.  

(c) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the time
of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Agent such
Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made
such share available to the Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance
with subsection (b) of this Section and the Agent may, in reliance upon such
assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower on such date a
corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so
made such share available to the Agent, such Lender and the Borrower severally
agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount
together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made
available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the
Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, a rate per annum equal
to the higher of the Federal Funds effective Rate and the interest rate
applicable thereto pursuant to Section 2.4(a) and (ii) in the case of such
Lender, the Federal Funds Effective Rate. If such Lender shall repay to the
Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such
Lender's Credit Loan included in such Borrowing for purposes of this
Agreement.  

2.13  Form and
Terms of Payment . All payments made by the Borrower hereunder in respect of
any Credit Loan borrowed by it, including principal, interest, Funding Losses,
commitment fees and any other obligations of the Borrower, shall be made to the
Agent for account of the Lenders to the bank and account number specified for
the Agent on Schedule 1 hereto or such other account as the Agent shall specify.
All payments shall be made in immediately available and freely transferable
funds and, in the case of payments of principal of and interest payable on any
Payment Date, by 12:00 Noon, New York time (each such payment made after such
time on such due date to be deemed to have been made on the next succeeding
Business Day). Any payment due hereunder or under any other Loan Document that
falls due on a day that is not a Business Day shall be rescheduled to the next
succeeding Business Day and interest and fees shall continue to accrue to such
next succeeding Business Day. The Agent shall pay to each Lender any amounts
received by the Agent for account of such Lender promptly to the bank and
account number specified for such Lender on Schedule 1 hereto or such other
account as such Lender shall specify.  

2.14
 Obligations . (a) The failure of any Lender to make any Credit Loan to be
made by it on the date specified therefor shall not relieve any other Lender of
its obligation to make its Loan on such date, but neither any Lender nor the
Agent shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make a Loan to
be made by such other Lender, and no Lender shall have any obligation to the
Agent or any other Lender for the failure by such Lender to make any Credit Loan
required to be made by such Lender. The amounts payable by the Borrower at any
time hereunder to each Lender shall be a separate and independent debt and each
Lender shall be entitled to protect and enforce its rights arising out of this
Agreement, and it shall not be necessary for any other Lender or the Agent to
consent to, or be joined as an additional party in, any proceedings for such
purposes.  

(b) [RESERVED]  

(c) Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, each Lender
shall be entitled to fund and maintain its funding of all or any part of the
Credit Loan in any manner it sees fit, it being understood, however, that for
purposes of this Agreement, all determinations hereunder shall be made as if
such Lender had actually funded and maintained each Credit Loan made on or
converted to a Eurodollar Rate Basis during the Interest Period for such Credit
Loan through the purchase of deposits having a term corresponding to such
Interest Period and bearing an interest rate equal to the applicable Eurodollar
Rate in the case of a Credit Loan made on a Eurodollar Rate Basis.  

2.15  Replacement
of an Affected Lender . (a) If no Default or Event of Default then exists or
is continuing and if (i) as the result of the application of Section 2.8, the
obligation of one or more (but not all) of the Lenders to permit a Credit Loan
to be loaned on a Eurodollar Rate Basis is suspended for more than thirty (30)
days, (ii) as the result of the application of Section 2.9, one or more (but not
all) of Lenders which has caused the Agent to notify the Borrower of increased
capital requirements and the affected Lender(s) are unable to agree on an
adjustment to the compensation payable to such Lender within the specified 30
day period, or (iii) the Borrower must make a payment pursuant to Section 2.17
with respect to such Lender, then, in each such case, during a period of thirty
(30) days thereafter, the Borrower, by notice to the Agent and the Lenders, may
elect to cause such affected Lender to assign its interest hereunder and in its
Credit Loans to one or more of the other Lenders (if any such Lender so desires
to accept such an assignment), or to another financial institution selected by
the Borrower and acceptable to the Agent, any such assignment to be effected in
accordance with Section 17.  

(b) In the event any Lender does not consent (or fails to respond) to a proposed
amendment, modification or waiver to any provision of this Agreement or any
other Loan Document requested by the Borrower, the Borrower may, at its sole
expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Agent, require such
Lender to transfer and assign, without recourse, all of its interests, rights
and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such
assigned obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts
such assignment); provided that: (i) such replaced Lender shall have received
payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Credit Loans,
accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it
hereunder and under the other Loan Documents from the assignee (to the extent of
such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in
the case of all other amounts), and (ii) such assignment does not conflict with
Applicable Law.  

2.16  Funding Losses . The Borrower shall compensate each Lender, upon
request (which request shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis for
requesting such amounts), for all losses, expenses and liabilities (including
any loss or cost (including interest paid) incurred by such Lender (i) in
liquidating or employing deposits required to fund or maintain its Credit Loan
on a Eurodollar Rate Basis and any interest paid by such Lender to lenders of
funds borrowed by it to make or carry its Credit Loan on a Eurodollar Rate and
(ii) in the case of Tranche A Loans, any loss or cost in terminating or
otherwise unwinding such Lender's Swap Transaction (as defined in the definition
of Applicable Rate)) which such Lender may sustain: (a) if for any reason a
Credit Loan to be borrowed by the Borrower does not occur on a date specified
therefor in a Notice of Borrowing; (b) if any repayment of a Credit Loan
borrowed by the Borrower (including repayments following acceleration of the
Credit Loans due to an Event of Default or any mandatory or voluntary
prepayment) occurs on a day other than a Payment Date and, in the case of any
Tranche A Loan, if any such repayment occurs on a day other than the day
scheduled therefor; (c) if any prepayment of any Credit Loan borrowed by the
Borrower is not made on any date specified in a notice of prepayment given by
the Borrower; or (d) as a consequence of any failure by the Borrower to repay a
Credit Loan when required by the terms of this Agreement or the Notes
(collectively,  Funding Losses ). The Borrower shall pay such amount upon
presentation by the affected Lenders of a certificate pursuant to Section 2.10
setting forth the amount and such calculation thereof pursuant
hereto.  

2.17  Payments Free and Clear of Taxes .  

(a) All payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts under this
Agreement, the Notes or any other Loan Document or otherwise paid or payable to
Agent (as used in this Section 2.17,  Payments ) shall be made free and
clear of, and without deduction by reason of, Taxes, all of which shall be paid
by the Borrower for its own account not later than the date when due. If the
Borrower is required by law or regulation to deduct or withhold any Taxes from
any Payment, it shall: (a) make such deduction or withholding; (b) pay the
amount so deducted or withheld to the appropriate taxing authority not later
than the date when due; (c) deliver to Agent, promptly and in any event within
fifteen (15) days after the date on which such Taxes become due, original tax
receipts and other evidence satisfactory to Agent of the payment when due of the
full amount of such Taxes; and (d) pay to Agent forthwith upon any request by
Agent therefor from time to time, such additional amounts as may be necessary so
that each Lender receives, free and clear of all Taxes, the full amount of such
Payment stated to be due under this Agreement, the Notes or any other Loan
Document as if no such deduction or withholding had been made. The Borrower
agrees to indemnify each Lender and the Agent for the full amount of Taxes
(except for Taxes on the overall net income of such Lender or the Agent or any
franchise Taxes in lieu thereof) paid by such Lender or the Agent, as the case
may be, and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising
therefrom or with respect thereto without duplication of any amounts paid by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 2.9(a).  

(b) From time to time, if requested in writing by the Borrower or the Agent,
each Lender listed on the signature pages hereof, and on or prior to the date on
which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, organized under the
laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States (but only so long as such
Lender remains lawfully able to do so), shall provide the Borrower and the Agent
with (i) United States Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) Form W-8BEN or
W-8ECI or any successor form prescribed by the IRS, certifying that such Lender
is entitled to benefits under an income tax treaty to which the United States is
a party which reduces the rate of withholding tax on payments of interest or
certifying that the income receivable pursuant to this Agreement is effectively
connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States, and (ii)
any other form or certificate required by any taxing authority (including any
certificate required by Sections 871(h) and 881(c) of the Code), certifying that
such Lender is entitled to an exemption from or a reduced rate of tax on
payments pursuant to this Agreement or any of the other Loan
Documents.  

(c) For any period with respect to which a Lender has failed to provide the
Borrower and the Agent with the appropriate form pursuant to Section 2.17(b)
(unless such failure is due to a change in treaty, law, or regulation occurring
subsequent to the date on which a form originally was required to be provided),
such Lender shall not be entitled to any "gross-up" of Taxes or indemnification
under Section 2.17(a) with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States;
 provided, however , that should a Lender, which is otherwise exempt from
or subject to a reduced rate of withholding tax, become subject to Taxes because
of its failure to deliver a form required hereunder, the Borrower shall take
such steps as such Lender shall reasonably request to assist such Lender to
recover such Taxes.  

2.18  Term-Out
Option . The Borrower may exercise a one time option to term-out the Tranche
B Loans scheduled to be outstanding on December 21, 2006 (after giving effect to
any prepayments applicable thereto) by providing notice of such election to the
Agent (who shall promptly thereafter notify the Lenders thereof) not less than
30 days nor more than 60 days prior to December 21, 2006. If the Borrower
exercises the term-out option contained in this Section 2.18, then the
provisions in this Agreement relating to "Term-Out Period" and "Term-Out Option"
shall be applicable to the Credit Loans. The Borrower's right to exercise the
option provided in this Section 2.18 is subject to there being no Default at the
time of the exercise thereof or on December 21, 2006.  

Section 3 .      Representations and Warranties .  Each of the Parent Guarantor, the Borrower and Interpool
Limited severally represents (in respect of themselves only) to the Agent and the Lenders that as of the Closing
Date:  

3.1  Corporate
Existence and Good Standing, Etc .  

(a) Each of the Parent Guarantor, the Borrower and Interpool Limited is a
corporation validly organized and existing and in good standing under the laws
of the jurisdictions in which it is incorporated, and each has corporate power
to own its property and conduct its business as presently conducted by it;
and  

(b) In all jurisdictions where the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower owns real
property or maintains plants or warehouses, it is either qualified to do
business and in good standing or such qualification can readily be obtained
without substantial penalty; and the failure to qualify in jurisdictions where
the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower have not done so will have no Materially
Adverse Effect.  

3.2  Corporate
Power; Consents; Absence of Conflict with Other Agreements, Etc .  

(a) The execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents by the
Borrower, the Parent Guarantor and Interpool Limited and the borrowings and
transactions contemplated hereby and thereby:  

(i) are within
their respective corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary
corporate action;  

(ii) do not require any approval or consent of, or filing (other than such
filings as may be required to perfect or maintain the Agent's Lien under the
Security Documents) with, any governmental agency or authority, and do not and
will not contravene any provision of Law or the terms of their respective
charter documents or bylaws or any amendment thereof; and  

(iii) will not conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of or
default under, or the creation of any Lien under, any indenture, agreement,
lease, instrument or undertaking to which the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor or
Interpool Limited is a party or by which any of them or any of their properties
are bound.   

(b) Each of the Loan Documents executed by the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor or
Interpool Limited is and will be a valid and legally binding obligation of the
Borrower, the Parent Guarantor or Interpool Limited, as the case may be,
enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.  

(c) This Agreement and the other Loan Documents have been duly executed and
delivered by the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor and/or Interpool Limited, as the
case may be.  

3.3  Title to
Properties . As of December 31, 2003, the Parent Guarantor and each of its
Subsidiaries owned all of its respective assets reflected in the consolidated
balance sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as of December 31,
2003. Neither the Parent Guarantor nor the Borrower is insolvent (as defined in
Section 101(29) of Title 11 of the United States Code) and will not be rendered
so insolvent as a result of the transactions contemplated hereby or referred to
herein.  

3.4  Financial Statements . The Lenders have been furnished with the Parent
Guarantor's consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2004, and its
consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for the
fiscal year then ended, and related footnotes, audited by KPMG LLP. The Parent
Guarantor has furnished the Agent and the Lenders with its unaudited
consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2005 and its unaudited
consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flow for the
fiscal quarter then ended, certified by the principal financial or principal
accounting officer of the Parent Guarantor but subject, however, to normal,
recurring adjustments.  

3.5  No Material
Changes, Etc . There have occurred no changes in the condition (financial or
otherwise), operations, assets, income, or business of the Parent Guarantor and
its Subsidiaries as shown on or reflected in the information reported on the
Parent Guarantor's SEC Form 10-Q issued in respect of the fiscal quarter ended
September 30, 2005, the effect of which individually or in the aggregate has had
a Materially Adverse Effect.  

3.6
 Litigation . There are no actions, suits, proceedings or investigations of
any kind pending or, to the knowledge of the Parent Guarantor or any of its
Subsidiaries, threatened against the Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries
before any court, tribunal or administrative agency or board which, if
determined adversely, are reasonably likely to, either in any case or in the
aggregate, have a Materially Adverse Effect, or materially impair the rights of
the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries to carry on their businesses
substantially as now conducted, or result in any substantial liability not
adequately covered by insurance, or which question the validity of this
Agreement or the Notes or any action taken or to be taken pursuant hereto or
thereto.  

3.7  No
Materially Adverse Contracts, Etc . Neither the Parent Guarantor nor any of
its Subsidiaries is subject to any charter, corporate or other legal
restriction, or any judgment, decree, order, rule or regulation which in the
judgment of the Parent Guarantor's officers has or is expected in the future to
have a Materially Adverse Effect.  

3.8  Compliance
with Other Instruments, Laws, Etc . Neither the Parent Guarantor nor any of
its Subsidiaries is violating any provision of its respective charter documents
or bylaws or any agreement or instrument by which it or any of its properties
may be bound or any decree, order, judgment, or, to the knowledge of the Parent
Guarantor's officers, any statute, license, rule or regulation, in a manner
which could result in the imposition of substantial penalties or which could
have a Materially Adverse Effect.  

3.9  Tax
Status . The Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries (a) made or filed all Tax
returns, reports and declarations required by any jurisdiction to which any of
them are subject in all cases in which the failure to do so may result in the
imposition of substantial penalties or which could have a Materially Adverse
Effect, (b) paid all Taxes and other governmental assessments and charges that
are material in amount and required to be paid, except those being contested in
good faith, by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued, and (c) set aside on
their books provisions reasonably adequate for the payment of all Taxes for
periods subsequent to the periods to which such returns, reports or declarations
apply. There are no unpaid taxes in any material amount claimed to be due from
the Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries by the taxing authority of any
jurisdiction, and the officers of the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor know of
no basis for any such claim.  

3.10  Compliance
with ERISA . To the extent required, the Parent Guarantor, its Subsidiaries
and each member of the Controlled Group have fulfilled their obligations under
the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan
and are in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provision of
ERISA and the Code, and have not incurred any liability to the PBGC or a Plan
under Title IV of ERISA; and no "prohibited transaction" or "reportable event"
(as such terms are defined in ERISA) has occurred with respect to any Plan which
could reasonably be expected to result in material liability for excise
taxes.  

3.11  No
Default . No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing under
this Agreement or any other Loan Document.  

3.12  Patents,
Copyrights, Permits, Trademarks, Licenses and Leases . The Parent Guarantor
and its Subsidiaries each has rights with respect to all of their respective
material patents, trademarks, permits, service marks, trade names, copyrights
and licenses, necessary for the present conduct of its business, the absence of
which would result in a Materially Adverse Effect.  

3.13  Use of
Proceeds . The proceeds of the Credit Loan made hereunder will be used by the
Borrower to refinance the Equipment. The Borrower is the ultimate beneficiary of
this Agreement and the Credit Loans to be received hereunder. No portion of any
Credit Loan is to be used, for the "purpose of purchasing or carrying" any
"margin stock" as such terms are used in Regulations U and X of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as amended and the Borrower is not
engaged in the business of extending credit to others for such
purpose.  

3.14
 Capitalization . The Borrower and Interpool Limited are each Subsidiaries
of the Parent Guarantor. The Parent Guarantor owns 100% of the issued and
outstanding shares of common Voting Stock of the Borrower (approximately 10% of
capitalization). The Parent Guarantor owns 100% of the common Voting Stock of
Interpool Limited (100% of capitalization) and Interpool Limited owns 100% of
the preferred Voting Stock of the Borrower (approximately 90% of
capitalization). The Borrower owns 100% of the Voting Stock of Interpool
Container Funding II, SRL.  

3.15  Holding
Company and Investment Company Acts . Neither the Parent Guarantor nor any of
its Subsidiaries is a "holding company" or a "subsidiary company" of a "holding
company" or an "affiliate" of a "holding company", as such terms are defined in
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935; nor is it a "registered
investment company", or an "affiliated company" or a "principal underwriter" of
a "registered investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment
Company Act of 1940, as amended.  

3.16
 Disclosure . None of the reports, financial statements, certificates or
other information furnished by or on behalf of the Parent Guarantor or any of
its Subsidiaries to the Agent and the Lenders in connection herewith contains
any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact
necessary in order to make the statements contained therein, in light of the
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. There is no fact known
to either the Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries which has or is
expected to have a Materially Adverse Effect, except as has been disclosed
previously to the Agent in writing.  

3.17  Title to
Lease and Equipment; Monitoring System . With respect to each Lease and item
of Equipment that becomes, or is intended to become, subject to the lien of the
Security Agreements, the Borrower has good and valid legal and beneficial title
to, and is the lawful owner of, all such Leases and Equipment, free and clear of
all Liens whatsoever, except for Permitted Liens. The Parent Guarantor has good
and valid legal and beneficial title to the Monitoring System, free and clear of
Liens except Permitted Liens.  

3.18  Borrowing
for Own Benefit . The Borrower confirms that the Credit Loans borrowed by it
will be used for the purposes set forth in Section 3.13 hereof, are being
borrowed exclusively for its own account (within the meaning of paragraph 8 of
the German Money Laundering Act) and the use of such Credit Loans will comply
with all applicable laws, including money laundering laws.  

Section 4. 
 Conditions to Closing . The obligation of the Lenders to advance the
Credit Loans on the Closing Date shall be subject to the prior or simultaneous
satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:  

(a)  Delivery of Loan Documents . Each of this Credit Agreement, the
Security Documents, the Parent Guaranty and the Intercreditor Documents shall
have been duly and properly authorized, executed and delivered by the respective
parties thereto and shall be in full force and effect on and as of the Closing
Date. Executed original counterparts of such documents, as executed and
delivered by the respective parties thereto, shall have been delivered to the
Agent.  

(b)  Delivery of Charter and Other Documents . The Agent, on behalf of the
Lenders, shall have received from the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor and
Interpool Limited copies, certified by the respective Authorized Officer or
assistant secretary of each to be true and complete as of the Closing Date, of
each of (a) its charter or other incorporation documents as in effect on such
date, (b) its by-laws as in effect on such date, (c) resolutions authorizing its
execution and delivery of each of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, its
performance of all of its agreements and obligations under each of such
documents and the borrowings and other transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, and (d) an incumbency certificate giving the name and bearing a
specimen signature of each individual who shall be authorized to sign, in its
name and on its behalf, each of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, to
make application for the Credit Loans, and to give notices and to take other
action on its behalf under the Loan Documents to which it is a party.  

(c)  Acceptance of Agent . Interpool, Inc., the agent for service of
process designated in Section 11 of the Parent Guaranty and Section 23(f), has
accepted such appointment and has delivered evidence of such appointment to the
Agent.  

(d)  Collateral Account . The Collateral Account shall have been
established with the Intermediary, and the Agent shall have on-line access to
account statements and account activity in respect thereof.  

(e)  Request for Funds . The Borrower shall have given to the Agent a
completed Notice of Borrowing, substantially in the form of  Exhibit B 
hereto.  

(f)  Representations and Warranties . The representations and warranties of
the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor and Interpool Limited contained in Section 3
and the other Loan Documents in connection herewith on or after the date hereof
shall have been materially correct when made and shall be deemed to be repeated
at and as of the Closing Date, and such representations and warranties shall be
materially correct at and as of the Closing Date.  

(g)  Performance; No Default . Each of the Borrower and the Parent
Guarantor shall have performed and complied in all material respects with all
terms and conditions herein or in the other Loan Documents required to be
performed or complied with by it prior to or at the time of the Closing Date,
and no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and is
continuing.  

(h)  Delivery of Officer's Certificate . The Agent and each of the Lenders
shall have received an Officer's Certificate dated as of the Closing Date, in
form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent, in which the Borrower
shall represent and warrant to the Lenders that the conditions precedent set
forth in Sections 4(f), 4(g), 4(l), 4(t) (to the Borrower's knowledge in the
case of Sections 4(t)(ii)(y) and(iii)) and 4(u) were satisfied at and as of the
Closing Date.  

(i)  Legality; Consents . The making of the Credit Loan to be made on the
Closing Date shall not contravene any Law, regulation, decree or order binding
on the Borrower and all necessary consents in connection with the transactions
contemplated in this Agreement and all other Loan Documents and all instruments
incidental hereto and thereto have been obtained and the Agent, on behalf of
each of the Lenders, shall have received all such certified or copies of all
such instruments and documents as the Agent shall have reasonably
requested.  

(j)  Delivery of Certain Documents . The Notes evidencing the Credit Loans
to be made on the Closing Date and the Security Agreement Supplement for the
Closing Date shall have each been duly and properly authorized, executed and
delivered by the respective parties thereto and shall be in full force and
effect on and as of the Closing Date. The executed original counterpart of such
Notes shall be delivered to the Lenders named as payee thereof and executed
original counterparts of such Security Agreement Supplement, as executed and
delivered by the respective parties thereto, shall have been delivered to the
Agent. The attachments to the Security Agreement Supplement shall be completed
as follows:  

(i) in the case of Schedule 1 (Equipment), there shall be listed the containers
constituting the Eligible Equipment relating to the Leases referred to in clause
(ii) below; and   

(ii) in the case of Schedule 2 (Leases), there shall be listed the leases
intended to be covered thereby on the Closing Date.   

(k)  Opinions of the Borrower's, Parent Guarantor's, Interpool Limited's and
Agent's Counsel . The Agent and the Lenders, shall have received from (i)
Kathleen Francis, Esq., U.S. counsel to the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor and
Interpool Limited, (ii) Lex Caribe, Barbados counsel to the Borrower, the Parent
Guarantor and Interpool Limited, and (iii) Vedder, Price, Kaufman   Kammholz,
P.C., special New York counsel to the Agent, favorable opinions of counsel in
form, scope and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent, each such
opinion addressed to the Agent and the Lenders and dated the Closing
Date.  

(l)  Security Documents . Subject only to the execution of this Agreement,
the application or delivery of the proceeds of the Credit Loan to be made on the
Closing Date hereunder, the Security Documents and the UCC Financing Statements
and other documents in respect thereto as necessary to enable the Agent to
perfect a legal, valid and enforceable first-priority security interest in all
of the Collateral intended to be conveyed on the Closing Date, shall have been
duly executed by the Borrower, and duly filed or recorded, as applicable, in all
appropriate filing offices or other locations necessary for the perfection of
such security interests, subject only to Permitted Liens not of record, and all
other actions necessary for the perfection of such interests shall have been
completed to the satisfaction of the Agent and its counsel.  

(m)  Proceedings and Documents . All proceedings in connection with the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement to be consummated on the Closing
Date and all documents incident thereto shall be reasonably satisfactory in
substance and in form to the Lenders and the Agent and the Agent's special
counsel, and the Agent, on behalf of the Lenders, and such counsel shall have
received all information and such counterpart originals or certified or other
copies of such documents as the Lenders, the Agent or such counsel may
reasonably request.  

(n)  Compliance Certificate . To the extent the Borrower has produced the
requisite financial statements by the Closing Date to enable it to so prepare
such certificate, the Agent and each of the Lenders shall have received a
Certificate, substantially in the form of  Exhibit D  (a  Compliance Certificate ),
duly executed by an Authorized Officer of the Borrower.  

(o)  No Material Adverse Changes, Etc . No event shall have occurred or
shall result after giving effect to the funding contemplated hereunder that may
cause a Materially Adverse Effect. There shall not have occurred any material
adverse change, including in governmental regulations, and other Laws or
policies, affecting the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower.  

(p)  Evidence of Insurance . Evidence of insurance complying with the
requirements of Section 6.8 for the Equipment to be financed on the Closing
Date, in scope, form and substance customary with industry standards, and naming
the Agent as an additional insured and/or loss payee, and stating that such
insurance shall not be canceled or revised without at least 30 days' prior
written notice by the insurer to the Agent.  

(q)  Litigation . As of the date of the Closing Date, there shall be no
actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to either the Parent Guarantor or its
Subsidiaries' knowledge, threatened against either the Parent Guarantor or its
Subsidiaries or which could be reasonably be expected to have a Materially
Adverse Effect.  

(r)  Fees . The Borrower shall have paid the fees for the Closing Date
referred to in Section 2.6.  

(s)  Copies of Purchase Documentation, Invoices, Bills of Sale and Other Title
Documents . The Agent and each of the Lenders shall have received copies of
purchase documentation, invoices, bills of sale and other evidence of payment
indicating that the manufacturers and/or sellers of the Equipment listed in
Schedule 1, and identified as having been purchased in 2005 therein, to the
Security Agreement Supplement delivered on the Closing Date (the "Closing Date
Equipment") have received payment in full of the cost thereof.  

(t)  No Defaults; Absence of Material Adverse Change; etc .  

(i) No Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and then be continuing or
would result from the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents.  

(ii) No change in the financial condition of (x) any of the Parent Guarantor,
the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries or (y) any Lessee, which
would materially and adversely affect the Borrower's ability to perform their
obligations under the Loan Documents.  

(iii) The Equipment is in good working order and no Event of Loss has occurred
with respect to any item of Equipment.  

(iv) The Borrower is a Subsidiary of the Parent Guarantor, 100% of whose Voting
Stock shall be owned directly or indirectly by the Parent Guarantor.  

(u)  Title . The Borrower has good title to the Collateral described in the
Security Agreement and the Security Agreement Supplement delivered on the
Closing Date, free and clear of all Liens other than Permitted Liens.  

(v)  Eligible Leases . The Agent, on behalf of the Lender, shall have
received the original counterpart of each Lease specified in the Security
Agreement Supplement delivered on the Closing Date that constitutes "chattel
paper".  

(w)  Notice of Assignment . The Agent shall have received from the Borrower
a Notice of Assignment addressed to each Lessee (or delivered in blank) under
each Lease, such Notice of Assignment to be held by the Agent and distributed to
such Lessee only in accordance with Section 3(c) of the Security
Agreement.  

(x)  Equipment . The Agent and each Lender shall be satisfied with the
nature of the Equipment, and such Equipment shall on average (calculated on the
basis of (i) number of units and (ii) Net Present Value) not be older than six
years (from day of delivery thereof by the respective manufacturer
thereof).  

(y)  Financial Markets . The Agent shall not have determined that there has
been a material adverse change in the financial markets relevant for the
financing of the Credit Loans to be disbursed on the Closing Date, and it shall
not be unlawful or impractical for each Lender to make Dollar-denominated loans
or to purchase the Dollar-denominated obligations necessary for such Lender to
make or maintain such Credit Loans.  

Section 5. 
 Substitution in Connection with an Event of Loss . In connection with any
Casualty Item, the Borrower will have the right to pledge to the Agent, on
behalf of the Lenders, one or more items of Equipment ( Substitute Equipment ) in
substitution for a Casualty Item if:  

(i) such Substitute Equipment (A) is Eligible Equipment, (B) has a Net Present
Value that is not less than the Net Present Value of the Casualty Item and (C)
is subject to the same Eligible Lease as the Casualty Item was subject; and  

(ii) such substitution is completed on or before the third Payment Date
following the date on which such Event of Loss occurred.  

Any substitution of Substitute Equipment for a Casualty Item pursuant to this
Section 5.1 will be effected by completion of the following items: (i) delivery
to the Agent by the Borrower of a supplement to the Security Agreement duly
subjecting such Replacement Equipment to the Lien of the Security Agreement; and
(ii) filing of an amendment to the UCC Financing Statements and the Statement of
Charge filed in Barbados in order to reflect the addition of such Substitute
Equipment as collateral. Upon the effectiveness of a substitution of Substitute
Equipment in accordance with this Section 5.1, the Borrower shall not be
required to make the prepayment in respect of the related Casualty Item as
provided in Section 2.7(b).  

Section 6. 
 Affirmative Covenants . So long as any amounts are owing with respect to
the Notes or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement:  

6.1  Punctual
Payment . The Borrower agrees to duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid
the principal and interest on the Notes and all fees and other amounts from time
to time owing hereunder, all in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and
the Notes.  

6.2  Location of
Office . The Parent Guarantor agrees to maintain its chief executive office
and principal place of business at 211 College Road East, Princeton, New Jersey
08540, or at such other address as the Parent Guarantor shall designate in a
notice to the Agent and each Lender at least sixty (60) days prior to the
effective date of such relocation.  

6.3  Records and
Accounts; Collateral Tracking System . The Borrower or the Parent Guarantor:
(a) will keep true consolidating and consolidated records and books of account
in which full, true and correct entries will be made in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and maintain adequate accounts and
reserves for all taxes (including, income taxes), all depreciation, depletion,
obsolescence and amortization of its properties, all contingencies, and all
other reserves; and (b) maintain computerized systems capable of tracking the
Eligible Equipment and Lease Income on a per unit basis, enabling the Parent
Guarantor and the Borrower at all times to identify the same by Lease and any
Lessee (the  Monitoring System ).  

6.4  Financial
Statements, Certificates and Information . The Parent Guarantor will furnish
to each of the Lenders:  

(a) (i) Within 180 days after the end of each
fiscal year of the Parent Guarantor, consolidated balance sheets of the Parent
Guarantor and its consolidated Subsidiaries, as at the end of such fiscal year,
and consolidated statements of income, cash flows and retained earnings of the
Parent Guarantor and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then
ended, each setting forth in comparative form the figures for the previous
fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles consistently applied, accompanied by a report and
opinion of KPMG LLP (or such other independent certified public accountants of
nationally recognized standing as are reasonably acceptable to the Lenders),
which report and opinion shall have been prepared in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards and shall be unqualified as to "going concern"
status, scope of audit or conformity with GAAP and (ii) within 180 days after
the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, consolidated balance sheets of the
Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries, as at the end of such fiscal year,
and consolidated statements of income, cash flows and retained earnings of the
Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, each
setting forth in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all
in reasonable detail, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles consistently applied, except for the lack of footnotes thereto, and
certified by the principal financial or principal accounting officer of the
Borrower;  

(b) As soon as available and, in any event,
within ninety (90) days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters
in each fiscal year of the Parent Guarantor thereafter a consolidated balance
sheet of the Parent Guarantor and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of
such fiscal quarter, and consolidated statements of income and reconciliation of
surplus of the Parent Guarantor and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the
portion of the fiscal year then ended, all in reasonable detail, prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied,
except for the lack of footnotes thereto, and certified by the principal
financial or principal accounting officer of the Parent Guarantor or each the
Borrower, as the case may be, but subject to normal, recurring year-end
adjustments;  

(c) Following a request therefor by the Agent,
within 30 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Parent Guarantor, Parent
Guarantor's and the Borrower's financial forecast for the five fiscal years
following such fiscal year (the first forecast subject to this clause (c) being
that for the 2006 fiscal year), including its income, balance sheet and cash
flow forecast;  

(d) (i) Concurrently with the delivery of each
financial statement pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 6.4, a
Compliance Certificate, signed on behalf of the Parent Guarantor by its
principal financial or principal accounting officer and (ii) on each Payment
Date, a Borrowing Base Certificate signed on behalf of the Borrower by an
Authorized Officer as to the Borrower's Borrowing Base as at such date;  

(e) Promptly upon receipt thereof, copies of all
management letters of substance and other reports of substance which are
submitted to the Borrower or the Parent Guarantor by their accountants in
connection with any annual or interim audit of the books of the Borrower or the
Parent Guarantor made by such accountants;  

(f) Promptly upon their becoming available,
copies of such other financial statements and reports, if any, as the Borrower
and/or the Parent Guarantor may be required to file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission or any similar or corresponding governmental commission,
department or agency substituted therefor, or any similar or corresponding
governmental commission, department, board, bureau, or agency, federal or state,
to the extent that such are publicly available;  

(g) If and when the Borrower and/or the Parent
Guarantor gives or is required to give notice to the PBGC of any "Reportable
Event" (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) with respect to any Plan that might
constitute grounds for a termination of such Plan under Title IV of ERISA, or
knows that any member of the Controlled Group or the plan administrator of any
Plan has given or is required to give notice of any such Reportable Event, a
copy of the notice of such Reportable Event given or required to be given to the
PBGC;  

(h) Upon the request of the Agent, within 180
days after the end of each fiscal year of the Parent Guarantor, an updated
Dynamar Report (or equivalent such report) of each Lessee; and  

6.5 With reasonable
promptness, such other data as the Agent or any of the Lenders (acting through
the Agent so long as no Event of Default is continuing) may reasonably
request.  

6.6  Business and
Corporate Existence . The Parent Guarantor and the Borrower will keep in full
force and effect its corporate existence and all rights, licenses, leases and
franchises reasonably necessary to the conduct of its business and comply with
(a) all applicable laws and regulations wherever its business is conducted, (b)
the provisions of its charter documents or by-laws, and (c) all agreements and
instruments by which it or any of its properties may be bound and all applicable
decrees, orders and judgments, in each case in such manner that a Materially
Adverse Effect will not result.  

6.7  Payment of
Taxes . The Parent Guarantor and the Borrower will promptly pay and discharge
all lawful taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon
them or upon their income or profit or upon any property, real, personal or
mixed, belonging to them,   provided   that none of the Borrower, the
Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to pay any such
tax, assessment, charge or levy if the same shall not at the time be due and
payable or can be paid thereafter without penalty or if the validity thereof
shall currently be contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently
pursued and if the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor or such Subsidiary, as the
case may be, shall have set aside on its books reserves deemed by it adequate
with respect to such tax, assessment, charge or levy.  

6.8  Repayment of
Bridge Note . The Parent Guarantor and the Borrower will furnish to the Agent
evidence of repayment in full of the promissory note in the amount of
$332,200,000 dated as of November 30, 2005 given by the Borrower in favor of
Interpool Limited on or before December 31, 2005.  

6.9
 Insurance . (a) The Borrower will promptly effect and maintain, or cause
to be effected and maintained by each Lessee, with financially sound and
reputable companies, insurance policies: (i) insuring the Equipment against loss
by war, fire, explosion, theft and such other casualties as are usually insured
against by first class companies engaged in the same or a similar business and
with coverage, and with respect to any Container, in an amount (on a combined
basis taking into consideration the insurance maintained both by the Borrower
and any applicable Lessee) at least equal to the replacement cost of such
Container, and (ii) insuring the Borrower against liability for personal injury
and property damage liability, caused by, or relating to, the Equipment or its
use, with such levels of coverage and deductibles that are customary with first
class industry standards. The Agent and the Lenders reserve the right (but shall
not have the obligation) to obtain (i) at the Borrower's expense, insurance with
respect to any or all of the foregoing risks if the Borrower shall fail to
obtain such coverage in the specified amounts, and (ii) additional insurance on
its own behalf with respect to any or all of the foregoing risks (or any other
risk). All insurance maintained by the Borrower for loss or damage of the
Equipment shall provide that losses, if any, shall be payable to Agent or its
designee as sole loss payee for its loss and the Borrower shall utilize its best
efforts to have all checks relating to any such losses delivered promptly to
Agent or such other person designated by the Agent. The Agent and each Lender
shall be named as an additional insured with respect to all such liability
insurance maintained by the Borrower. The Borrower shall pay, or cause to be
paid, the premiums with respect to all such insurance and deliver to Agent
evidence satisfactory to Agent of such insurance coverage. The Borrower shall
cause to be provided to Agent, not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the
scheduled expiration or lapse of such insurance coverage, evidence satisfactory
to Agent of renewal or replacement coverage. Each insurer shall agree, by
endorsement upon the policy or policies issued by it or by independent
instrument furnished to Agent, that (i) it will give each additional insured and
the loss payee thirty (30) days' prior written notice of the effective date of
any material alteration, cancellation or non-renewal of such policy; (ii) the
interest of any named additional insurance or loss payee other than the Borrower
shall not be invalidated by any actions, inactions, breach of warranty or
conditions or negligence of the Borrower or any other person with respect to
such policy or policies and (iii) it will permit the Agent and/or the Lender(s)
to make payments to effect the continuation of coverage upon notice of
cancellation due to nonpayment of premium.  

(b) The Parent Guarantor and the Borrower will
maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies insurance on
all other properties and assets in at least such amounts and against at least
such risks as are usually insured against in the same general area as that in
which it is located and by companies engaged in the same or similar
businesses.  

6.10  Inspection
of Properties and Books; Containers Monitoring System . (a) The Parent
Guarantor and the Borrower will permit the Agent or any Lender, or any of their
designated representatives or agents, at any reasonable time during business
hours and at reasonable intervals of time, once per calendar year, and upon
reasonable prior written notice (or, if a Default or an Event of Default shall
have occurred and then be continuing, at any time, without prior notice and at
the Borrower's expense and more frequently than once a year), to (i) to the
extent permitted under the related Lease, visit, inspect and appraise the
Equipment and properties of the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor; (ii) examine
and make copies of and take abstracts from the books and records of the Borrower
and the Parent Guarantor, including Equipment purchase orders and purchase
agreements; (iii) obtain from the Borrower such other information regarding the
Equipment as the Agent or such Lender may reasonably request promptly following
such request; and (iv) discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the
Borrower and the Parent Guarantor with their appropriate officers, employees and
accountants. The Borrower shall pay for the cost and expense (including, inter
alia, travel) of the Agent in conducting all such inspections, if an Event of
Default has occurred and is then continuing.  

(b) The Borrower will permit the Agent or any
Lender, or any of their designated representatives or agents, at any reasonable
time during business hours and at reasonable intervals of time, once per
calendar year, and upon reasonable prior written notice (or, if a Default or an
Event of Default shall have occurred and then be continuing, at any time during
business hours, without prior notice and at the Borrower's expense and more
frequently than once a year), to (i) visit, inspect and have access to the
Monitoring System relating to the Equipment and (ii) obtain information from the
Monitoring System reasonably required to obtain a fair picture of the condition
and lease status of the Equipment.  

(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of
this Section 6.9, so long as no Event of Default is continuing, any of the
rights of a Lender under this Section 6.9 shall be exercised through the
Agent.  

6.11  Licenses
and Permits . The Borrower will cause all Equipment which, under applicable
Law, is required to be registered, to be properly registered in the name of the
Borrower and cause all Equipment, the ownership of which, under applicable law,
is evidenced by a certificate of title, to be properly titled in the name of the
Borrower. If at any time while any of the Notes are outstanding, any
authorization, consent, approval, permit or license from any Governmental
Authority shall become necessary or required in order that the Borrower may
fulfill any of its obligations hereunder, the Borrower shall immediately take or
cause to be taken all steps reasonably necessary to obtain such authorization,
consent, approval, permit or license and furnish the Agent with evidence
thereof.  

6.12  Notice of
Material Claims and Litigation . The Parent Guarantor and the Borrower will
promptly notify the Agent and each Lender of the commencement of any claims
(other than claims under a policy of insurance in amounts which, together with
any interest accrued thereon, do not exceed the face value of such policy),
actions, suits, proceedings or investigations of any kind pending or threatened
against the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries before any
court, tribunal or administrative-agency or board in an amount in excess of
$5,000,000, or which, if adversely determined, might, either in any case or in
the aggregate, have a Materially Adversely Effect or materially impair the right
of the Parent Guarantor and its Subsidiaries considered as a whole, or the
Borrower considered individually, to carry on their respective businesses
substantially as now conducted, or which question the validity of this
Agreement, any Note or the Security Documents or any action taken or to be taken
pursuant hereto or thereto.  

6.13  Further
Assurances . The Parent Guarantor and the Borrower will cooperate with the
Agent and the Lenders and take such further actions and execute such further
instruments and agreements as the Agent may reasonably request to carry out to
the Lenders' satisfaction the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement.  

6.14  Pension
Plans . The Parent Guarantor and the Borrower will:  

(a) Fund any Guaranteed Pension Plan as required
by the provisions of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, and make
all contributions to a Multiemployer Plan required pursuant to any applicable
collective bargaining agreement.  

(b) Furnish promptly to the Agent a copy of any
notice of termination of a Guaranteed Pension Plan required to be sent to the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and a copy of any report or demand sent or
received by or with respect to a Guaranteed Pension Plan pursuant toss.ss.4041,
4041A, 4042, 4043, 4062, 4063, 4065, 4066 or 4068 of ERISA or under subtitle E
of Title IV of ERISA.  

(c) Furnish promptly to the Agent a copy of all
Forms 5500, Forms 5500-C and/or Forms 5500-R relating to a Guaranteed Pension
Plan, together with all attachments thereto, including any actuarial statement
relating to a Guaranteed Pension Plan required to be submitted underss.103 (d)
of ERISA.  

(d) Cause any Guaranteed Pension Plan to pay all
benefits when due.  

(e) Furnish the Agent with copies of any request
for waiver from the funding standards or extension of the amortization periods
required by Section 303 and 304 of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code, with
respect to any Guaranteed Pension Plan no later than the date on which the
request is submitted to the Department of Labor or the United States Internal
Revenue Service, as the case may be.  

(f) Promptly notify the Agent of any "complete
withdrawal", "partial withdrawal" or "reorganization" with respect to any
Multiemployer Plan as such terms are defined in ERISA.  

(g) With respect to any Guaranteed Pension Plan,
promptly notify the Agent upon the occurrence of any "Reportable Event" as
defined in ERISA.  

6.15  Use of
Proceeds . The Borrower will cause the proceeds of the Credit Loans to be
used only for general corporate purposes of the Borrower in the ordinary course
of business and the refinancing of the Equipment.  

6.16  Notice of
Default . Promptly, upon becoming aware thereof, the Borrower will give
written notice to the Agent and each Lender of: (a) the occurrence of any
Default or Event of Default, specifying the nature and duration thereof and the
action being or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (b) any litigation or
proceeding affecting the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor or any of its
Subsidiaries or any of their properties or assets which, if adversely
determined, might have a Materially Adverse Effect, (c) any dispute between the
Borrower, the Parent Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries and any Governmental
Authority that might materially interfere with their normal business operations,
and (d) any Materially Adverse Effect.  

6.17  Servicing
Agreement . The Borrower will enter into the Servicing Agreement, and will
ensure it comes into effect, no later than December 31, 2005.  

6.18
 Distributions by Interpool Containers Funding II, SRL . The Borrower, the
Parent Guarantor and Interpool Limited will ensure that Interpool Containers
Funding II, SRL makes equity distributions to the Borrower, to the Parent
Guarantor or to any other Subsidiary of the Parent Guarantor including Interpool
Limited only by way of payment to the Borrower into the account the subject of
the Account Control Agreement.  

6.19  Sale of
Assets by Interpool Container Funding II, SRL . If Interpool Container
Funding II, SRL sells or is to sell more than 25% of the sum of (i) the
Aggregate Finance Lease Value (as defined in the credit agreement referred to in
the Servicing Agreement) and (ii) the Aggregate Net Book Value (as defined in
the credit agreement referred to in the Servicing Agreement), then the Borrower
shall first reduce the Aggregate Note Principal Balance to an amount no greater
than 80% of the Aggregate Net Present Value (from such date the Borrowing Base
shall be the lower of the Borrowing Base specified in Schedule 5 and
80%).  

Section 7. 
 Negative Covenants . So long as any amounts are owing with respect to the
Notes or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement:  

7.1  Liens .
The Borrower will not create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Liens on the
Borrower's interest in the Monitoring System, except Permitted Liens.  

7.2  Maximum
Funded Debt to Tangible Net Worth . The Parent Guarantor will not, at the end
of any fiscal quarter, permit the ratio of (i) Funded Debt to (ii) Tangible Net
Worth, to exceed the ratio of 4.0 to 1.  

7.3  Minimum
Tangible Net Worth . The Parent Guarantor will not, at the end of any fiscal
quarter, permit Tangible Net Worth to be less than Three Hundred Million Dollars
($300,000,000).  

7.4  Fixed Charge
Coverage Ratio . The Parent Guarantor will not, at the end of any fiscal
quarter, permit the ratio of (A) for the rolling four quarter period ending on
the last day of such quarter, the sum of (i) Earnings Available for Fixed
Charges, plus (ii) depreciation to (B) Fixed Charges for such period, to be less
than 1.5 to 1.  

7.5  Additional
Financial Covenants . If on or after the Closing Date, the Parent Guarantor,
the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries either incur additional
Indebtedness for borrowed money or amend the documentation for any Indebtedness
for borrowed money outstanding on the Closing Date, so as to either (i)
incorporate additional financial covenants or (ii) amend covenants of the type
set forth in Section 7.2, 7.3 or 7.4 hereof in such a way as to make such
covenant more restrictive, then the Borrower shall promptly (but in no event
later than ten (10) Business Days thereafter) notify the Agent and each Lender
of such occurrence. If the Majority Lenders so elect, then upon notice of such
election to the Parent Guarantor, such revised and/or additional financial
covenants shall automatically be incorporated by reference into this Agreement
without the need for further action by any party whatsoever. Thereupon, the
Agent and each Lender shall have a separate and independent right to enforce
such revised and/or additional financial covenants.  

7.6
 Distributions . (a) The Borrower shall not make or declare any
Distributions (i) to Interpool Limited after December 31, 2005 if and so long as
any amounts remain outstanding on account of the Tranche B Loans, or (ii) to the
Parent Guarantor or any other Person so long as any amounts remain outstanding
on account of the Tranche B Loans.  

(b) Interpool Limited shall not make or declare
any Distributions to Parent Guarantor after December 31, 2005 if and so long as
any amounts remain outstanding on account of the Tranche B Loans.  

(c) The Parent Guarantor shall not make any
Distributions or make tender offers to its shareholders with the proceeds of any
Credit Loans.  

7.7  Merger,
Consolidation or Sale of Assets, Etc . The Parent Guarantor will
not:  

(a) Become a party to any merger or
consolidation, or take any action looking to the dissolution or liquidation of
the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower other than, so long as no Default or Event
of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (A) the merger or
consolidation of the Borrower into the Parent Guarantor or Interpool Limited, or
(B) any consolidation or merger of the Parent Guarantor for which all of the
following conditions precedent are satisfied:  

(i)  if
the Parent Guarantor is not the surviving entity the person formed by such
consolidation or merger (each such corporation and each such person or entity
being hereinafter called a  Successor ) shall execute and deliver to the Agent and
each Lender (x) an agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to
the Lessor containing an assumption by such Successor of the due and punctual
performance of each covenant and condition of the Parent Guarantor under this
Agreement and the Parent Guaranty and (y) an opinion of counsel as to the due
execution, delivery and enforceability of such agreement and any tax matters
incidental to such transaction requested by Agent;   

(ii) immediately
after giving effect to such transaction, (1) no Default or Event of Default
(including no breach of the financial covenants set forth in Section 7.2, 7.3,
7.4 or 7.5 hereof) shall have occurred and be continuing, and the Successor
shall have delivered an officer's certificate to such effect and (2) the Lenders
will not suffer any adverse tax treatment; and   

(iii) the relevant
Successor is, in the reasonable opinion of each of the Lenders, at least of the
same creditworthiness as the Parent Guarantor immediately prior to such merger
or consolidation and, if not, such Successor provides each of the Lenders with
alternative security acceptable to each of the Lenders.   

7.8  ERISA . The Parent Guarantor will not permit any Plan maintained by it to (a)
engage in any "prohibited transaction" (as defined in Section 4975 of the Code)
which could reasonably be expected to result in material liability for excise
taxes or fiduciary liability under Section 406 of ERISA, (b) incur any
"accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 302 of ERISA) whether or
not waived, or (c) terminate any Plan in a manner that could result in the
imposition of a Lien or encumbrance on the assets of the Parent Guarantor or any
of its Subsidiaries pursuant to Section 4068 of ERISA.  

7.9  Public
Utility Holding Company . The Parent Guarantor will not directly or
indirectly own, control or hold with power to vote any "voting security" of an
"electric utility company" or a "gas utility company" or of a "holding company"
holding any "voting security" of either the foregoing, as such terms are defined
in the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.  

7.10
 Transactions with Affiliates . Neither the Parent Guarantor nor the
Borrower will enter into or permit to exist, directly or indirectly, any
transaction with any Affiliate of the Parent Guarantor or any Subsidiary
thereof, except for transactions made on fair and reasonable terms which are no
more favorable to such Affiliate than would be obtained in a comparable
arm's-length transaction with a person that is not an Affiliate.  

7.11
 Dispositions of Collateral . The Borrower will not sell, transfer,
exchange or otherwise dispose of any of the Collateral, except :  

(i) following
release thereof in accordance with Section 2.7(g) hereof; and   

(ii) sale or
dispositions of Eligible Equipment in connection with an Event of Loss.

7.12  Stock
Dispositions . The Parent Guarantor and Interpool Limited will not assign,
transfer or otherwise create any Lien upon any of their respective interests in
the Borrower. The Borrower will not assign, transfer or otherwise create any
Lien upon any of its interests in Interpool Container Funding II,
SRL.  

7.13
 Subordination of Other Indebtedness . The Borrower shall not incur
Indebtedness to Interpool Limited, the Parent Guarantor or any Subsidiary of the
Parent Guarantor that is not fully subordinated to the Borrower's obligations to
the Agent and the Lenders under the Loan Documents.  

7.14  Servicing
Agreement . If the Servicing Agreement is terminated, the Borrower shall,
within 30 days of such termination, reduce the Aggregate Note Principal Balance
to an amount no greater than 80% of the Aggregate Net Present Value (from such
date the Borrowing Base shall be the lower of the Borrowing Base specified in
Schedule 5 and 80%).  

Section 8. 
 Events of Default . The occurrence and continuation of any of the
following events shall be
 Events of Default  (or, if the giving of notice or lapse of time or both is required, then prior to such notice
and/or lapse of time, the occurrence of such events shall be  Defaults ):  

(a) if the Borrower shall default in the payment
of any installment of the principal of, or interest on, any Note (including any
mandatory prepayment set forth in Section 2.7 hereof) when the same shall become
due and payable, whether at maturity or at any date fixed for payment or
prepayment or by declaration or otherwise, and such condition shall continue
unremedied for five Business Days; or  

(b) (i) if the Borrower shall default in the
payment of any amounts owing pursuant to the terms of any Loan Document (not
otherwise addressed in clause (a) above or clause (ii) hereof) when the same
shall become due and payable, and such condition shall continue unremedied for
ten Business Days or (ii) if the Borrower or the Parent Guarantor shall default
in the payment of any fee or expense when the same shall become due and payable,
and such condition shall continue unremedied for ten Business Days after notice,
unless the subject fee or expense is the subject of a good faith dispute;
or  

(c) if the Parent Guarantor, the Borrower or
Interpool Limited shall default in the performance of or compliance with any
term contained in Section 7; or  

(d) if the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower shall
default in the performance of or compliance with any term contained in Sections
6.1 through 6.15 which could reasonably be expected to materially adversely
affect the Agent or the Lenders and such default shall not have been remedied
within ten Business Days after notice thereof shall have been given to the
Borrower by the Agent; or  

(e) if the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower shall
default in the performance of or compliance with any term contained herein
(other than those referred to above in this Section 8), or in any of the other
Loan Documents which could reasonably be expected to materially adversely affect
the Agent or the Lenders, and such default shall not have been remedied within
30 days after notice thereof shall have been sent to the Borrower by the Agent;
or  

(f) if any representation or warranty made by the
Borrower or the Parent Guarantor herein or in any of the other Loan Documents,
in any other documents or agreements executed in connection with the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement or in any certificate delivered
hereunder shall prove to have been false or incorrect in any material respect on
the date when made or deemed to have been made and which could reasonably be
expected to materially adversely affect the Agent or the Lenders, and if curable
(together with any adverse consequences) such falsity or incorrectness shall not
have been cured (together with such consequences) within 30 days after notice
thereof shall have been sent to the Parent Guarantor by the Agent; or  

(1) Subject to
clause (2) below, if the Borrower or the Parent Guarantor shall fail (i) to pay
(as principal or guarantor or other surety) any principal of or premium, if any,
or interest on any Specified Indebtedness (other than any Specified Indebtedness
not exceeding $5,000,000 in aggregate principal (or other relevant) amount)
beyond any applicable grace period, or (ii) to observe or perform any of the
terms of any evidence of any Specified Indebtedness or any agreement relating
thereto (other than any Specified Indebtedness not exceeding $25,000,000 in
aggregate principal (or other relevant) amount) and such condition gives the
holders of such Specified Indebtedness the right to cause such Indebtedness to
be due prior to its stated maturity and shall continue unremedied for thirty
(30) days; or (iii) the Specified Indebtedness of the Borrower or the Parent
Guarantor (other than any Indebtedness not exceeding $5,000,000 in aggregate
principal (or other relevant) amount) shall be accelerated or otherwise required
to be paid or prepaid prior to the scheduled maturity therefor.   

(2) If the Parent
Guarantor certifies to the Agent in writing that no other facility relating to
the Parent Guarantor's or Borrower's Specified Indebtedness (other than
Specified Indebtedness not exceeding $5,000,000 in aggregate principal (or other
relevant) amount) contains a cross-default or cross-acceleration provision that
is less favorable to the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor as this provision,
then the Agent, the Lenders, the Parent Guarantor and the Borrower agree to
amend this Agreement such that the provisions of Section 8(g)(1) shall be
consistent with the next least favorable provisions contained in the Parent
Guarantor's or Borrower's facilities relating to Specified Indebtedness (as
certified to them in writing by the Parent Guarantor); provided that such
provision shall never be more favorable to the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower
than the cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions contained in the
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2004, among
Interpool Container Funding, SRL, as the borrower, Interpool, Inc., as parent
guarantor, Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V., as the agent and the lenders named
therein, as in effect on the date hereof; or   

(h) if the Borrower or the Parent Guarantor shall
(i) fail to pay its debts generally as the same shall become due, or (ii) apply
for or consent to the appointment of, or the taking of possession by, a
receiver, custodian, trustee, liquidator or similar official of itself or of all
or a substantial part of its property, (iii) be generally not paying its debts
as such debts become due, (iv) make a general assignment for the benefit of its
creditors, (v) commence a voluntary case under the Federal Bankruptcy Code (as
now or hereafter in effect), (vi) take any action or commence any case or
proceeding under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization,
winding-up or composition or adjustment of debts, or any other law providing for
the relief of debtors, (vii) fail to contest in a timely or appropriate manner,
or acquiesce in writing to, any petition filed against it in an involuntary case
under the Federal Bankruptcy Code or other law, (viii) take any action under the
laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization similar to any of the
foregoing, or (ix) take any corporate action for the purpose of effecting any of
the foregoing; or  

(i) if a proceeding or case shall be commenced,
without the application or consent of the Borrower or the Parent Guarantor in
any court of competent jurisdiction, seeking (i) the liquidation,
reorganization, dissolution, winding up, or composition or readjustment of its
debts, (ii) the appointment of a trustee, receiver, custodian, liquidator or the
like of it or of all or any substantial part of its assets, or (iii) similar
relief in respect of it, under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, winding-up or composition or adjustment of debts or any other
law providing for the relief of debtors, and such proceeding or case shall
continue undismissed, or unstayed and in effect, for a period of 60 days; or if
an order for relief shall be entered in an involuntary case under the Federal
Bankruptcy Code, against the Borrower or the Parent Guarantor, or if action
under the laws of the jurisdiction of incorporation or organization of the
Borrower or the Parent Guarantor similar to any of the foregoing shall be taken
with respect to the Borrower or the Parent Guarantor and shall continue unstayed
and in effect for any period of 60) days; or  

(j) if a judgment or order for the payment of
money shall be entered against the Borrower or the Parent Guarantor by any
court, or if a warrant of attachment or execution or similar process shall be
issued or levied against property of the Borrower or the Parent Guarantor, that
in the aggregate exceeds $5,000,000 in value and such judgment, order, warrant
or process shall continue undischarged, unsatisfied or unstayed for sixty (60)
days; or  

(k) if the Borrower or the Parent Guarantor or
any member of the Controlled Group shall fail to pay when due an amount or
amounts aggregating in excess of $5,000,000 that it shall have become liable to
pay to the PBGC or to a Plan under Title IV of ERISA; or if notice of intent to
terminate a Plan or Plans in a "distress situation" under Section 4041(c) of
ERISA shall be filed under Title IV of ERISA by the Borrower, the Parent
Guarantor, any member of the Controlled Group, any plan administrator or any
combination of the foregoing; or if any of such Persons files a notice of intent
to terminate a Plan or Plans pursuant to a "standard" termination that qualifies
as such due to an agreement by the Borrower of any member of the Controlled
Group to contribute additional amounts to such Plan or Plans; or if the PBGC
shall institute proceedings under Title IV of ERISA to terminate or to cause a
trustee to be appointed to administer any such, Plan or Plans or a proceeding
shall be instituted by a fiduciary of any such Plan or Plans against the Parent
Guarantor and such proceedings shall not have been dismissed within thirty (30)
days thereafter; or if a condition shall exist by reason of which the PBGC would
be entitled to obtain a decree adjudicating that any such Plan or Plans must be
terminated; or  

(l) if any of the Loan Documents shall for any
reason cease to be in full force and effect in any material respect;
or  

(m) with respect to the Parent Guarantor, if, (i)
with the exception of the following owners (or members of their immediate
families and related entities), (A) Martin Tuchman, presently acting as the
Chief Executive Officer of the Parent Guarantor, (B) Raoul J. Witteveen and (C)
Warren Serenbetz, any Person, or two or more Persons acting in concert, shall
have acquired beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of
the combined economic or voting interests in the Parent Guarantor, or (ii) any
Person referred to in the foregoing clause (i), or two or more such Persons
acting in concert, shall have acquired by contract or otherwise, or shall have
entered into a contract or arrangement that, upon consummation, will result in
its or their acquisition of the power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a
controlling influence over the composition of the board of directors or other
similar management body of the Parent Guarantor, or otherwise over the
management or policies of the Parent Guarantor; or with respect to the Borrower,
if the Parent Guarantor shall for any reason cease to own directly or indirectly
at least 51% of the issued and outstanding voting stock of the Borrower or
otherwise cease to have a controlling influence over the composition of the
board of directors of the Borrower or otherwise over the management or policies
of the Borrower; or  

(n) the primary business of the Parent Guarantor
or the Borrower is no longer the business of ownership, leasing and/or
management of intermodal transportation equipment.  

Section 9. 
 Remedies .  

(a) Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default of
a kind described in Sections 8(h) and (i), the Commitments shall be
automatically terminated and the then unpaid principal balance of, and accrued
interest on, all Notes and all other amounts then payable hereunder, if not
already due, shall immediately become and be due and payable, all without demand
or notice to the Borrower or other formalities, all of which are hereby
expressly waived by the Borrower.  

(b) Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default
which is not of a kind described in Sections 8(h) and (i), any of the following
actions may be taken: the Agent may, with the consent of the Majority Lenders,
or shall, upon the request of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower,
terminate the Commitments and/or declare the then unpaid principal balance of,
and accrued interest on, all Credit Loans and all other amounts owing to the
Lenders and the Agent under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to be
due and payable forthwith.  

(c) In the event the maturity of the Credit Loans
shall have been accelerated pursuant to the foregoing Sections 9(a) or 9(b), the
Borrower will cause the Lease Income paid from and after such time to be paid
directly to the Agent under the Security Agreement, for the benefit of the
Lenders and the Agent.  

(d) Subject to the other limitations contained in
this Section 9 concerning the exercise of remedies, the Agent, on its behalf or
on behalf of the Lenders, may proceed to protect its or their rights by action
at law, suit in equity or by any other appropriate measures, whether for
specific performance of any covenant or agreement contained herein or in any
other Loan Document and if the then unpaid principal balance of, and accrued
interest on, all Notes and shall have become due, by declaration or otherwise
pursuant to Section 9(a) or 9(b), to proceed to enforce the payment thereof or
to enforce any other legal or equitable right of such Person.  

(e) Upon the consent of the Majority Lenders, the
Agent may, or, upon the request of the Majority Lenders, the Agent shall,
subject in each case to Section 14.7, proceed to enforce the rights of the
Lenders and/or the Agent, and the Lenders may direct the Agent to enforce the
provisions of the Loan Documents authorizing the sale or disposition of all or
any of the property included in the Collateral and, in its discretion, to
exercise all or any of the other legal or equitable rights or remedies which the
Agent may have when the Agent shall have become entitled to exercise remedies
pursuant to the Loan Documents.  

(f) If the Agent shall exercise any or all
available remedies pursuant to the terms of any Loan Document, all moneys
received by the Agent from the exercise of such remedies and any other moneys at
the time in the possession of the Agent and available for distribution to the
Lenders and/or the Agent shall be applied by the Agent in the following
manner:  

first  , in or toward the payment of amounts
due to the Agent at the date of distribution for which it is entitled to
reimbursement or indemnification pursuant to this Agreement, as well as any
agency fees due to it;   

second , in or toward the reimbursement of amounts expended by each of the
Lenders in accordance with the provisions of Section 14.7 of this Agreement;

third , in or toward the payment to the
Lenders holding Tranche A Loans  pari passu  and ratably without preference
or priority of one over another, of interest accrued to the date of application
on the Tranche A Loans and then due hereunder and under the other Loan Documents
and any other amounts then due pursuant to Section 2 hereof to such Lenders on
account of the Tranche A Loans, in the proportions that the amounts of such
interest and other amounts then due to each of such Lenders bears to the total
amount of interest and other amounts then due;   

fourth , in or toward the payment to the
Lenders holding Tranche B Loans  pari passu  and ratably without preference
or priority of one over another, of interest accrued to the date of application
on the Tranche B Loans and then due hereunder and under the other Loan Documents
and any other amounts then due pursuant to Section 2 hereof to such Lenders on
account of the Tranche B Loans, in the proportions that the amounts of such
interest and other amounts then due to each of such Lenders bears to the total
amount of interest and other amounts then due;   

fifth , in or towards payment to the
Lenders holding Tranche A Loans,  pari passu  and ratably without
preference or priority of one over another, of the principal amount of the
Tranche A Notes in the proportions that the amount of such principal then owing
to each of them bears to the then aggregate principal balance of the Tranche A
Notes;   

sixth , in or towards payment to the
Lenders holding Tranche B Loans,  pari passu  and ratably without
preference or priority of one over another, of the principal amount of the
Tranche B Notes in the proportions that the amount of such principal then owing
to each of them bears to the then aggregate principal balance of the Tranche B
Notes; and   

seventh , any balance remaining shall be paid to
or as directed in writing by the Borrower or any other Person or Persons for the
time being entitled thereto.   

(g) This Agreement and each other Loan Document
may be enforced against the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor by the Agent as
agent of each of the Lenders, if so instructed, without the necessity of joining
any or all of them as parties in the enforcement proceedings.  

(h) All of the amounts to be paid to the Agent by
the Borrower pursuant to Section 9(c) and all interest and other amounts accrued
thereon, shall be held as cash security in any Collateral Account, to be applied
upon the Agent's becoming entitled to exercise remedies pursuant to any of the
Loan Documents, for the benefit of the Lenders and the Agent, against the
Obligations in such manner as shall be provided in Section 9(f) of this
Agreement.  

(i) As a separate stipulation independent from
anything else herein contained, the Agent is hereby authorized, without notice
to or any consent of the Borrower and without prejudice to any other right or
remedy which the Agent might have from time to time or at any time or times
while an Event of Default exists, without restrictions, to debit all or any of
the Collateral Accounts and appropriate, set-off or apply all or any part of the
sums standing to the credit thereto towards the payment or discharge of any of
the Obligations in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(f) hereof, and
for the purposes of such appropriation or application, to transfer the whole or
any part of the sums standing to the credit of the Collateral Accounts to any of
the offices of the Agent in any country whatsoever.  

(j)      The arrangements regarding all of or any part of the Collateral Accounts shall not constitute a debt of
the Agent due or payable to the Borrower and, accordingly, except as expressly provided in the Security
Agreement, the Borrower shall not at any time be entitled to withdraw any sum standing to its credit in the
Collateral Accounts until all of the Obligations have been paid in full.  

(k) The Agent shall, at the request of the
Borrower, invest from time to time any amounts on deposit in the Collateral
Account relating to the Borrower in certificates of deposit of prime commercial
banks (having a maturity of fewer than 30 days). Upon the request of the
Borrower, such amounts may be invested in other securities issued by any
commercial bank acceptable to Majority Lenders in the ordinary course of its
business; provided that all actions shall have been taken, and all such
documents in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent, including
an opinion of counsel, shall have been delivered to the Agent as it, in its sole
discretion, shall deem reasonably necessary or advisable in order to assure the
Agent that it, on behalf of the Lenders, shall have a duly perfected,
first-priority lien, charge and security interest in and to such securities and
the proceeds thereof.  

Section 10. 
 Notice and Waivers of Default .  

10.1  Notice of
Default . If any Lender shall give any notice or take any other action in
respect of a claimed Default (whether or not constituting an Event of Default)
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall forthwith give written notice thereof
to the Agent and to the Lenders, describing the notice or action and the nature
of the claimed Default.  

10.2  Waivers of Default . Any Default or Event of Default may be waived as
provided in Section 21. The Agent shall notify the Borrower in writing of any
waiver granted hereunder. Any Default or Event of Default so waived shall be
deemed to have been cured and to be not continuing, and upon such waiver each of
the Borrower, and each of the Lenders shall be restored to their respective
positions prior to the existence of the Default or Event of Default, whether or
not acceleration of the maturity of the Notes shall have occurred pursuant to
Section 9. No such waiver shall extend to or affect any subsequent or other
Default or Event of Default or impair any rights consequent thereon.
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 10 to the contrary, the Lenders shall
not be in any way obligated or required to grant any waiver and the decision to
grant any waiver shall be in the sole discretion of the Lenders.  

Section 11.         Set Off .  In addition to, and not in limitation of, any rights granted by applicable law, and
regardless of the adequacy of any collateral, during the continuance of an Event
of Default, any deposits or other sums credited by or due from any Lender to the
Parent Guarantor or the Borrower may, without notice to the Parent Guarantor or
the Borrower (which is hereby expressly waived), be set off against any and all
liabilities, direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, due or to become due,
now existing or hereafter rising, of the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower to
such Lender. Each Lender agrees with the other Lenders that if an amount to be
set off is to be applied to any Indebtedness of the Parent Guarantor or the
Borrower to any such Lender, whether Indebtedness evidenced by any of the Notes
or due under this Agreement or otherwise arising, such amount shall be applied
ratably to all such indebtedness (except to the extent not permitted by the
terms of any agreement or instrument evidencing the same). Each Lender further
agrees with the other Lenders that if such Lender shall both (a) receive from
either the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower or from any other source whatsoever,
whether by voluntary payment, exercise of the right of set-off, counterclaim,
cross action, or enforcement of any claim evidenced by the Notes, this Agreement
or any other Loan Document, or by proof thereof in bankruptcy, reorganization,
liquidation, receivership or similar proceedings, or otherwise, and (b) retain
and apply to the payment of the amounts owing with respect to the Notes or of
any amounts due to any such Lender under this Agreement or any other Loan
Document any amount which is in excess of its ratable portion of the payments
received by all of the Lenders, then such Lender shall make such disposition and
arrangements with the other Lenders with respect to such excess, either by way
of distribution until the amount of such excess has been exhausted, assignment
of claims, subrogation or otherwise, as shall result in each such Lender
receiving in respect of its Notes and the amounts due any such Lender under this
Agreement or any other Loan Document its ratable share of all such
payments.  

Section 12.         Buy-Out Rights .  At any time during the continuance of an Event of Default, any holder of a
Tranche B Note may, by written notice to the Agent and the holders of the
Tranche A Notes, elect to purchase all, but not less than all, Tranche A Notes
then outstanding on the date specified in such written notice (which shall
neither be fewer than three (3) nor more than ten (10) Business Days after the
date of such notice from such holder of a Tranche B Note), which notice, in
order to be effective, shall state that it is irrevocable. Each holder of a
Tranche A Note agrees to such purchase rights and that by its acceptance thereof
that it will, upon payment to it in the manner provided for in Section 2.12 from
such holder of a Tranche B Note of an amount equal to the aggregate unpaid
principal amount of all Tranche A Notes then held by such holder, together with
accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of payment and Funding Losses,
if any, for such holder and all other sums then due and payable to such holder
hereunder, under its Tranche A Notes and under the other Loan Documents,
forthwith sell, assign, transfer and convey to the purchaser thereof (without
recourse, representation or warranty of any kind except for its own acts or
omissions), all of the right, title and interest of such holder in and to all
Tranche A Notes held by such holder and the purchaser shall assume all of such
holder's obligations under the Loan Documents as a holder of Tranche A Notes
arising from and after the time of such sale. If the purchaser shall so request,
such holder of a Tranche A Note will comply with all the provisions of Section
17(b) to enable new Tranche A Notes to be issued to the purchaser in such
denominations as it shall request. All charges and expenses in connection with
the issuance of any such new Tranche A Notes shall be borne by the purchaser
thereof. In the event that more than one Tranche B Note holder shall elect to
purchase the Tranche A Notes pursuant to this Section 12, then each holder of a
Tranche B Note shall be entitled to purchase from each holder of a Tranche A
Note its  pro rata  share of such Tranche A Notes so held, which  pro
rata  share shall be in the same proportion (as nearly as practicable) as the
original principal amount of the Tranche B Notes held by such holder of Tranche
B Notes bears to the aggregate original principal amount of all holders of
Tranche B Notes which shall have made such election;  provided  that no
purchase of Tranche A Notes pursuant to this Section 12 shall occur unless all
Tranche A Notes are so purchased.  

Section 13. 
[Intentionally Omitted]  

Section 14. 
 The Agent .  

14.1
 Appointment . Each Lender hereby irrevocably designates and appoints DVB
Bank N.V. as the Agent for such Person under this Agreement, and each of the
other Loan Documents, and each Lender hereby irrevocably authorizes DVB Bank
N.V., as the Agent for such Lender, to execute the Loan Documents and to take
such action on its behalf under the provisions of the Loan Documents and to
exercise such powers and perform such duties as are expressly delegated to the
Agent by the terms thereof, together with such other powers as are reasonably
incidental thereto. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary elsewhere in
this Agreement or any other Loan Document, the Agent shall not have any duties
or responsibilities except those expressly set forth herein or therein, or any
fiduciary relationship with any Lender, and no implied covenants, functions,
responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into this
Agreement or any other Loan Document or otherwise exist against the
Agent.  

14.2  Delegation
of Duties . The Agent may execute any of its duties under this Agreement or
the other Loan Documents by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact and shall be
entitled to advice of counsel concerning all matters pertaining to such duties.
The Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any
agents or attorneys-in-fact selected by it in good faith.  

14.3  Exculpatory
Provisions . Neither the Agent nor any shareholders, officers, directors,
employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates of the Agent shall be (a)
liable for any action lawfully taken or omitted to be taken by it or such Person
under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document (except
for its or such Person's own gross negligence or willful misconduct or, in the
case of the Agent, simple negligence in the handling of money or funds received
by the Agent in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents), or (b)
responsible in any manner to any of the Lenders for any recitals, statements,
representations or warranties made by the Parent Guarantor or the Borrower or
any officer thereof contained in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or
by any party in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to
or provided for in, or received by the Agent under or in connection with, this
Agreement or any other Loan Document, or for the value, validity, effectiveness,
genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement or any other Loan
Document, or for any failure of the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor or Interpool
Limited to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder. The Agent shall not
be under any obligation to any Lender to ascertain or to inquire as to the
observance or performance of any of the agreements contained or conditions of,
this Agreement or any Loan Document or to inspect the properties, books or
records of the Borrower. The Agent shall not be required to initiate or conduct
any litigation or collection proceedings hereunder, and shall not be responsible
for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it hereunder or under any other
document or instrument referred to or provided for herein or in connection
herewith, except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Agent
shall not be deemed to have fiduciary obligation to any of the
Lenders.  

14.4  Reliance by
Agent . The Agent shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in
relying, on any writing, resolution, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit,
letter, cablegram, telegram, telecopy, telex or teletype message, statement,
order or other document or conversation believed by it to be genuine and correct
and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons and upon
advice and statements of all counsel (including counsel to the Borrower and/or
Parent Guarantor to the extent such counsel so comments in writing), independent
accountants and other experts selected by the Agent. The Agent may deem and
treat the named payee of any Note as the owner thereof for all purposes unless a
written notice of assignment, negotiation or transfer thereof shall have been
filed with the Agent. The Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing
to take action under this Agreement or any other Loan Document unless it shall
first receive such advice or concurrence of the Majority Lenders as it deems
appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Lenders
against any and all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason
of taking or continuing to take any such action. The Agent shall in all cases be
fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this Agreement
and the other Loan Documents in accordance with a request of the Majority
Lenders (or such other percentage of the Lenders as required by the provisions
of this Agreement), and such request and any action taken or failure to act
pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all Lenders and all future holders of the
Notes.  

14.5  Notice of
Default . The Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the
occurrence of any Default or Event of Default hereunder unless the Agent has
received notice from a Lender or the Borrower referring to this Agreement,
describing such Default or Event of Default and stating that such notice is a
"notice of default." In the event that the Agent receives such a notice, the
Agent shall give notice thereof to the Lenders and consult with the Lenders with
respect the action to be taken. The Agent shall take such action with respect to
such Default or Event of Default as shall be reasonably directed by the Majority
Lenders, provided that unless and until the Agent shall have received such
directions, the Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or
refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Default or Event of
Default as it shall deem advisable in the best interests of the
Lenders.  

14.6  Non-Reliance on Agent and Other
Lenders . Each Lender expressly acknowledges that neither the Agent nor any
officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates of the
Agent has made any representations or warranties to it and that no action by the
Agent hereinafter taken, including any review of the affairs of the Borrower or
the Parent Guarantor shall be deemed to constitute any representation or
warranty by the Agent to any Lender. Each Lender represents to the Agent that it
has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender, and
based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its
own appraisal of and investigation into the business, operations, property,
financial and other condition and credit-worthiness of the Borrower and the
Parent Guarantor and made its own decision to make its Credit Loans hereunder
and enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also represents that it will,
independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender, and based
on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time,
continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or
not taking, or directing, any action under this Agreement or any other Loan
Document, and to make such investigation as it deems necessary to inform itself
as to the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and
credit-worthiness of the Borrower. Except for notices, reports and other
documents expressly required to be furnished to the Lenders by the Agent
hereunder, the Agent shall not have any duty or responsibility to provide any
Lender with any credit or other information concerning the business, operations,
property, financial and other condition or credit-worthiness of the Borrower and
the Parent Guarantor which may come into the possession of the Agent or any
officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates of the
Agent.  

14.7
 Indemnification .  

(a) The Lenders agree to indemnify the Agent in
its capacity as such (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower and without
limiting the obligation of the Borrower to do so), ratably according to the
principal balances of their respective Notes, from and against any and all
liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits,
costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind whatsoever which may at any time
(including without limitation at any time following the payment of the Notes) be
imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Agent (including any Lender) in
any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement, or any documents
contemplated by or referred to herein, and the transactions contemplated hereby
or thereby or any action taken or omitted by the Agent under or in connection
with any of the foregoing,   provided   that no Lender shall be liable
for the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses,
damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements
resulting from the Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct or, in the
case of the handling of money or funds received by the Agent in accordance with
the terms of the Loan Documents, simple negligence. The agreements in this
subsection shall survive the payment of the Notes and all other amounts payable
hereunder.  

(b) The Agent shall not be required to expend any
of its own money to make up the full amount of any Credit Loan requested by the
Borrower hereunder, or otherwise or incur any expense as a consequence of the
failure of any Lender to make available to the Agent any Credit Loan which the
Lenders have become obliged to make hereunder. If such a failure should occur
and the Agent shall nevertheless have advanced money of its own or incur expense
in order to make up the full amount of any such Credit Loan, it shall be deemed
to have done so at the request of any Lender, which is in default, unless such
Lender shall have previously notified the Agent that it should not make such an
advance or incur such an expense to make good such failure, and in the absence
of such prior notice, such Lender shall be obliged to pay to the Agent on demand
the amount expended by the Agent out of its own funds plus any costs incurred by
the Agent to carry such funds while such Lender is in default to the Agent
hereunder, all of which shall constitute a loan by the Agent to such Lender
which shall bear interest from the date of the advance by the Agent at the
Federal Funds Effective Rate from day to day on the Credit Loan with respect to
which the advance or expenditure was made. During the continuance of any such
default as between the Agent and such Lender, and notwithstanding anything
elsewhere herein to the contrary expressed or implied, the principal amount of
indebtedness in respect of Credit Loans made by such Lender in default shall be
deemed to be reduced, so long as the default continues, by the amount not
remitted by it to the Agent to make up such Lender's share of the amount of such
Credit Loan and such principal amount and interest thereon shall be deemed
assigned to and collectible by the Agent for its own account for application
against the amount of its claim under the preceding sentence.  

(c) In the event that the Agent does not receive
from any Lender a payment which such Lender is required by the terms hereof to
make to the Agent and the Agent has made the amount thereof available to the
Borrower, as the intended recipient thereof, if the Borrower repays the Agent
the amount made available to it, the Borrower shall be subrogated to the Agent's
right to recover such amount from any Lender which failed to make such required
payment.  

14.8  Failure to
Act . Except for action expressly required of the Agent hereunder, the Agent
shall in all cases be fully justified in failing or refusing to act hereunder
unless it shall receive further assurances to its satisfaction from the Lenders
of their indemnification obligations under Section 14.7 against any and all
liability and expense that may be incurred by it by reason of taking or
continuing to take any such action.  

14.9  The Agent
in Its Individual Capacity . The Agent and its Affiliates may make loans to,
accept deposits from and generally engage in any kind of business with the
Borrower, and any Affiliates of the Borrower as though DVB Bank N.V. were not
the Agent hereunder and DVB Bank N.V. (any such successor) and its Affiliates
may accept fees and other consideration from the Borrower for services in
connection with this Agreement or otherwise without having to account for the
same to the Lenders. With respect to its Credit Loans made or renewed by it, and
any Note issued to it, the Agent shall have the same rights and powers under
this Agreement as any Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the
Agent, and the terms "Lender" and "Lenders" shall include the Agent in its
individual capacity.  

14.10  Successor
Agent . The Agent may voluntarily resign as Agent upon thirty (30) days'
notice to the Lenders and the Borrower, or shall resign upon the written request
of the Majority Lenders, with such written request also being provided to the
Borrower. If the Agent shall resign as Agent under this Agreement, then the
Majority Lenders shall appoint from among the Lenders a successor agent which
successor agent, whereupon such successor agent shall succeed to the rights,
powers and duties of the resigning Agent, and the term "Agent" shall mean such
successor agent effective upon its appointment, and the former Agent's rights,
powers and duties as Agent shall be terminated, without any other or further act
or deed on the part of such former Agent or any of the parties to this
Agreement, or any holders of the Notes. If a successor Agent is not appointed
before the end of such thirty (30) day notice period, the resigning Agent shall
continue to serve as Agent hereunder for a limited period of time beyond such
thirty (30) day notice period; provided that the Borrower and the Lenders
diligently attempt to identify and appoint a successor Agent. After any retiring
Agent's resignation hereunder as Agent, the provisions of this Section 14 shall
inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while
it was the Agent under this Agreement.  

14.11  Exercise
of Remedies Under Security Documents . Unless the Agent shall have determined
that immediate action is desirable in order to protect the interests of the
Lenders, the Agent shall consult with the Lenders before exercising any remedies
under the Security Documents and shall (subject to receiving indemnification
pursuant to Section 14.7) take such actions with respect thereto as shall be
reasonably directed by the Majority Lenders.  

14.12  Standard
of Care . In performing its duties and functions hereunder, the Agent will
exercise the same degree of care which it normally exercises in making and
handling loans in which it alone is interested, but it does not assume further
responsibility.  

14.13  Dealing
with the Lenders . The Agent may at all times deal solely with the several
Lenders for all purposes of this Agreement and the protection, enforcement and
collection of the Notes, including the acceptance and reliance upon any
certificate, consent or other document of such Lenders and the division of
payments in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, notwithstanding
possession by the Agent of actual knowledge that any Lender has sold a
participation in Credit Loans made or to be made by it hereunder to another
Person.  

14.14  Duties Not
to be Increased . The duties and liabilities of the Agent shall not be
increased without the written consent of the Agent.  

Section 15.         Expenses and Indemnities .  Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby shall be
consummated, the Borrower agrees to pay: (a) the cost of producing and
reproducing this Agreement and other instruments mentioned herein; (b) the
reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of the Agent and its counsel (as
well as any outside counsel for the Lenders) incurred in connection with the
preparation of this Agreement and other instruments mentioned herein, each
funding hereunder, the addition or removal of Collateral pursuant to Section 5
and all amendments, modifications, approvals, consents or waivers hereto or
hereunder, and (c) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including attorneys'
fees and costs incurred by the Agent and by each Lender in connection with (i)
the enforcement of this Agreement, the Loan Documents and the Notes against the
Borrower and/or the Parent Guarantor or the administration thereof after the
occurrence and during the continuance of a Default or Event of Default, and (ii)
in connection with any workout, amendment or waiver requested by the Borrower,
the Parent Guarantor or Interpool Limited, litigation, proceeding or dispute
(other than one between two or more Lenders and other than one in which the
Borrower commences proceedings against the Lenders or any Lender and prevails
therein), whether arising hereunder or otherwise, in any way related to the
Agent's or any Lender's relationship with the Borrower hereunder. The amount of
all such expenses shall, until paid, bear interest at the rate applicable to
principal hereunder (including any Default Rate) and be an obligation secured by
any collateral. After the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of
Default, the Borrower shall pay the costs of any field audit examinations that
the Agent in its discretion may conduct. The Borrower further agrees to
indemnify and hold harmless the Indemnified Parties from and against any and all
damages, losses, settlement payments, obligations, liabilities, claims, actions
or causes of action, and reasonable costs and expenses incurred, suffered,
sustained or required to be paid by an Indemnified Party by reason of or
resulting from any litigation, proceeding or dispute commenced or threatened
against the Agent, or any Lender arising out of the transactions contemplated
hereby unless such damages, losses, settlement payments, obligations or
liabilities were caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the
Indemnified Party. In any investigation, proceeding or litigation, or the
preparation therefor, the Agent shall be entitled to select its own counsel and,
to the extent no conflict of interest arises, counsel for the Lenders (being the
same counsel as counsel to the Agent) and, in addition to the foregoing
indemnity, the Borrower agrees to pay promptly the reasonable fees and expenses
of such counsel. The covenants of this Section 15 shall survive payment or
satisfaction of payment of amounts owing with respect to the Notes.  

Section 16.         Survival of Covenants, Etc .  All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made
herein, in the other Loan Documents and in any certificates or other papers
delivered by or on behalf of the Borrower and/or the Parent Guarantor, pursuant
hereto shall survive the making by each Lender of Credit Loans, as herein
contemplated and shall continue in full force and effect so long as amount due
under this Agreement or the Notes remains outstanding and unpaid.
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement or implied by law to the contrary,
the indemnification agreements of the Borrower set forth in Section 2 of this
Agreement shall survive the payment of amounts due under this Agreement or the
Notes. All statements of fact relating to the Borrower contained in any
certificate or other paper delivered to the Agent or to any Lender at any time
after the date hereof by or on behalf of the Borrower pursuant hereto or in
connection with the transactions contemplated hereby shall constitute
representations and warranties by the Borrower and the Parent Guarantor
hereunder.  

Section 17.         Parties in Interest; Successors and Assigns .  

(a) Whenever in this Agreement any of the parties
hereto is referred to, such reference shall be deemed to include the successors
and assigns of such party; and all covenants, promises and agreements by or on
behalf of the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor, the Lenders or the Agent shall
bind and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and
assigns.  

(b) Any Lender may, with prior or concurrent
notice to the Borrower, (i) assign to one or more Affiliates of the Lender all
or a portion, or (ii) assign to one or more other assignees that is not, so long
as no Event of Default is continuing, a Competitor or a Prohibited Institution
(each, an  Assignee ) all or a portion (not less than $5,000,000 original
principal amount, or if less than $5,000,000, such Lender's entire Credit Loan),
in each case, of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and
the other Loan Documents, including all or a portion of such Lender's Credit
Loan(s), at the time made by or owing to it, provided that (i) the parties to
each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent and the Borrower an
instrument of assignment and acceptance substantially in the form of  Exhibit
E  (an  Assignment and Acceptance ); and (ii) after giving effect to
such assignment the assigning Lender shall retain (if it retains any portion) a
minimum of $5,000,000 original principal amount of its interests, rights, and
obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and provided
further that any such assignment shall be subject to the consent of the Agent,
which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Upon acceptance and recording
in the Register pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 17, from and after the
effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance: (i) the Assignee (if
not already a Lender hereunder) shall be a party hereto and, to the extent
provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, have the same rights and obligations
as a Lender under this Agreement, and the terms "Lender" and "Lenders"
thereafter shall include such Assignee, and (ii) the assigning Lender shall be
released from any future obligations under this Agreement with respect to the
interest assigned, provided that in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance
covering all or the remaining portion of a Lender's rights and obligations under
this Agreement, such Lender shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of the
indemnification provisions of Sections 2 and 15 hereof, as well as to any fees
or amounts accrued for its account hereunder and not yet paid and shall continue
to be responsible for obligations and liabilities incurred prior to such
assignment. The Borrower shall upon request of the Assignee and delivery of the
assigning Lender's Note execute new Notes in appropriate denominations to
evidence the Credit Loans after an assignment and shall deliver such new Notes
to the Assignee and the assigning Lender (to the extent it retains any portion
of the Credit Loans) in exchange for the return of the Notes that previously
evidenced such Credit Loans.  

(c) The Agent shall maintain a copy of each
Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of
the names and addresses of the Assignees, and the principal amount of the Credit
Loans of each Tranche owing to each Assignee from time to time (the
 Register ). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive in the absence
of manifest error, and the Borrower, each Lender, and any Assignees may treat
each person whose name is recorded in the Register as an Assignee for all
purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by
the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor, the Lenders, and any Assignee, at any
reasonable time upon reasonable prior notice.  

(d) If, pursuant to this Section 17, any interest
in this Agreement is assigned to any Assignee that is not incorporated or
organized under the laws of the United States or a state thereof, such Assignee
shall agree that, if requested in writing by the Borrower or the Agent, it shall
deliver to the Borrower and the Agent: (i) two valid, duly completed copies of
United States Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI or
successor applicable form, as the case may be, certifying in each case that such
Assignee is entitled to receive payments made under this Agreement and the Notes
without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes, and
(ii) a valid, duly completed IRS Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI or successor applicable
form, as the case may be, to establish an exemption from United States backup
withholding tax. Each Assignee which delivers to the Agent a Form W-8BEN or
W-8ECI pursuant to the preceding sentence further undertakes to deliver to the
Borrower and the Agent two copies of the Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI, or successor
applicable forms, or other manner of certification, as the case may be, on or
before the date that any such form expires or becomes obsolete or otherwise is
required to be resubmitted as a condition to obtaining an exemption from
withholding tax or after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the
most recent form previously delivered by it to the Borrower and the Agent, and
such extensions or renewals thereof as may reasonably be requested by the
Borrower or the Agent, certifying in the case of a Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI that
such Assignee is entitled to receive payments made under this Agreement and the
Notes without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income
taxes, unless any change in treaty, law or regulation or official interpretation
thereof has occurred prior to the date on which any such delivery would
otherwise be required which renders all such forms inapplicable or which would
prevent such Assignee from duly completing and delivering any such letter or
form with respect to it and such Assignee advises the Agent that it is not
capable of receiving payments without any deduction or withholding of United
States federal income tax, and in the case of a Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI,
establishing an exemption from United States backup withholding tax.  

(e) Each Lender may sell to one or more Persons,
so long as such Person is not a Competitor or a Prohibited Institution (each, a
 Participant ) a participation of such Lender's interests, rights and
obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including all or
a portion of the Credit Loan(s)),  provided  that: (i) such Lender shall
remain solely responsible for the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement, (ii) such Participant shall be entitled to the benefit of the cost
protection provisions in Section 2 and, if the identity of such Participant is
disclosed to the Borrower, the right to set off contained in Section 11; and
(iii) the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and
directly with such selling Lender in connection with its rights and obligations
under this Agreement. All amounts payable by the Borrower hereunder shall be
determined as if that Lender had not sold such participation (i.e., the Borrower
shall not be obligated to make any payment on account of the cost protection
provisions in Section 2 in respect of any Participant in an amount that would
exceed such amount as would have been payable had such Lender not sold such
participation to such Participant). At any time or from time to time, upon
written request to a Lender by the Borrower, such Lender shall provide to the
Borrower a written statement of whether it has sold any participation in its
interests, rights and obligations hereunder and, if so, the amount of such
participation sold and the identity of the purchaser or purchasers.  

(f) Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary
contained herein, no participation or assignment shall, without the consent of
the Borrower, require the Borrower to (i) register or qualify the Credit Loans,
the Notes or any assignments thereof or participation therein under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Blue Sky law of any state or (ii)
indemnify any assignee or participant against (or protect, defend of keep any
such Person harmless from) any indemnification or cost protection claim pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.8, 2.9, 2.16, 2.17 or 15 in excess of the amount
that would have been payable by the Borrower had the assignment or
participation, as the case may be, not occurred.  

(g) The Borrower shall not assign or delegate any
of its rights and duties hereunder.  

(h) Any Lender, Assignee or Participant may at
any time pledge or assign all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement
to a Federal Reserve Bank.  

(i) No Lender may assign, or sell a participation
interest in, any of its rights under this Agreement, the Notes, or any other
Loan Document to (i) the Borrower or any Affiliates of the Borrower or (ii) any
particular bank identified to the Lenders by the Borrower if such bank maintains
the Borrower's operating accounts.  

Section 18.   Notices, Etc . Except as
otherwise expressly provided herein, all notices and other communications made
or required to be given pursuant to this Agreement, the Notes, a Security
Agreement or Parent Guaranty must be in writing shall be deemed to have been
given: when delivered by hand, two Business Days after being properly deposited
in the mails postage prepaid, when sent by telex, answer-back received, or fax
transmission, or the next Business Day after being delivered to the telegraph
company or overnight courier, addressed to such party at its address indicated
below (or at such other address as any party may from time to time specify by
notice to the other parties):  

(e) 
 
If to the Lenders, at the addresses set forth below their signature lines on
this Agreement; and 

Section 19 .  Miscellaneous . This Agreement and the Notes shall be
deemed to be contracts under the laws of the State of New York and shall for all
purposes be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of said State
(including Section 5-1401 and 5-1402 of the General Obligations Law, but
otherwise without giving effect to any conflicts of laws provisions contained
therein). The rights and remedies herein expressed are cumulative and not
exclusive of any other rights which the Agent or any Lender would otherwise
have. Any instrument required by any of the provisions hereof to be in the form
annexed hereto as an exhibit shall be substantially in such form, with such
changes therefrom, if any, as may be approved by the Agent and the Borrower. The
invalidity or unenforceability of any one or more phrases, clauses or sections
of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the
remaining portions of it. The captions in this Agreement are for convenience of
reference only and shall not define or limit the provisions hereof. This
Agreement and any amendment hereof may be executed in several counterparts and
by each party on a separate counterpart, each of which when so executed and
delivered shall be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one
instrument. In proving this Agreement it shall not be necessary to produce or
account for more than one such counterpart signed by the party against whom
enforcement is sought.  

Section 20.        Entire Agreement, etc .
This Agreement, together with the other Loan Documents, expresses the entire
understanding of the parties with respect to the transactions contemplated
hereby. Neither this Agreement nor any term hereof may be changed, waived,
discharged or terminated orally or in writing, except as provided in Section
21.  

Section 21.        Consents, Amendments,
Waivers, etc.  No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, the
Notes or any other Loan Document, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower
therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing
and signed by the Majority Lenders and the Borrower, and such waiver or consent
shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose
for which given. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment, waiver or consent
shall, without the prior written consent of each Lender affected thereby, do any
of the following: (i) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 4, or any
Events of Default set forth in Section 8(h) or (i); (ii) subject any of the
Lenders to any additional obligations; (iii) reduce the principal of or interest
owing on any Note, or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder; (iv) postpone
any date fixed for any payment in respect of, or waive any default in the
payment of any, principal of or interest on any Credit Loans or any fees or
other amounts payable hereunder; (v) change the number of Lenders which shall be
required for the Lenders, or any of them, to take any action hereunder; (vi)
amend Section 17(h) or this Section 21, (vii) amend the definition of any of the
terms "Majority Lenders", "Eligible Equipment", "Eligible Lease" or any defined
term used in any of the foregoing definitions; (viii) release all or any
substantial part of the Collateral from the Lien of the Security Agreements
except in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.7(g) and 7.12 hereof;
(ix) release the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor or Interpool Limited from its
obligations hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents; or (xi) permit
the creation of any Lien on the Collateral ranking prior to, or on parity with,
the Lien created by the Security Agreements. In addition, no amendment, waiver
or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the
Lenders required to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent
under this Agreement or any other Loan Document.  

Section 22.        Waiver of Jury Trial .
THE AGENT, THE LENDERS, THE BORROWER, THE PARENT GUARANTOR AND INTERPOOL LIMITED
AGREE THAT NONE OF THEM NOR ANY ASSIGNEE OR SUCCESSOR SHALL (A) SEEK A JURY
TRIAL IN ANY LAWSUIT, PROCEEDING, COUNTERCLAIM OR ANY OTHER ACTION BASED UPON,
OR ARISING OUT OF, THIS AGREEMENT, ANY LOAN DOCUMENT, ANY COLLATERAL OR THE
DEALINGS OR THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN OR AMONG ANY OF THEM, OR (B) SEEK TO
CONSOLIDATE ANY SUCH ACTION WITH ANY OTHER ACTION IN WHICH A JURY TRIAL CANNOT
BE OR HAS NOT BEEN WAIVED. THE PROVISIONS OF THIS PARAGRAPH HAVE BEEN FULLY
DISCUSSED BY THE AGENT, THE LENDERS, THE BORROWER, THE PARENT GUARANTOR AND
INTERPOOL LIMITED, AND THESE PROVISIONS SHALL BE SUBJECT TO NO EXCEPTIONS. NONE
OF THE AGENT, ANY LENDER, THE BORROWER, THE PARENT GUARANTOR OR INTERPOOL
LIMITED HAS AGREED WITH OR REPRESENTED TO ANY OTHER PARTY THAT THE PROVISIONS OF
THIS PARAGRAPH WILL NOT BE FULLY ENFORCED IN ALL INSTANCES.  

Section 23.        Submission to Jurisdiction;
Waivers . THE BORROWER, THE PARENT GUARANTOR AND INTERPOOL LIMITED HEREBY
IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY:  

(a)      SUBMIT FOR
THEMSELVES AND THEIR PROPERTY IN ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING
DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR
RECOGNITION AND ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT IN RESPECT THEREOF, TO THE
NON-EXCLUSIVE GENERAL JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
SITUATED IN NEW YORK COUNTY, THE COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND APPELLATE COURTS FROM ANY THEREOF;  

(b)      CONSENT THAT ANY
SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE BROUGHT IN SUCH COURTS, AND WAIVE ANY OBJECTION
THAT THEY MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR
PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT OR THAT SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING WAS BROUGHT IN AN
INCONVENIENT FORUM AND AGREE NOT TO PLEAD OR CLAIM THE SAME;  

(c)      WAIVE PERSONAL
SERVICE OF ANY AND ALL PROCESS UPON EACH OF THEM AND AGREE THAT ALL SUCH SERVICE
OF PROCESS IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE EFFECTED BY MAILING A COPY
THEREOF BY REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED MAIL (OR ANY SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR FORM OF
MAIL), POSTAGE PREPAID, TO THE BORROWER, THE PARENT GUARANTOR OR INTERPOOL
LIMITED AT THEIR ADDRESSES SET FORTH IN SECTION 18 OR AT SUCH OTHER ADDRESS OF
WHICH THE AGENT SHALL HAVE BEEN NOTIFIED PURSUANT THERETO AND THAT SERVICE SO
MADE SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE COMPLETED UPON THE EARLIER OF ACTUAL RECEIPT OR THREE
BUSINESS DAYS AFTER THE SAME SHALL HAVE BEEN POSTED TO THE BORROWER'S, THE
PARENT GUARANTOR'S AND INTERPOOL LIMITED'S ADDRESS AS SET FORTH IN SECTION
18;  

(d)      WAIVE ANY BOND
OR SECURITY WHICH MIGHT BE REQUIRED BY ANY COURT PRIOR TO ALLOWING THE AGENT TO
EXERCISE ANY REMEDIES SET FORTH HEREIN OR IN ANY OF THE OTHER LOAN
DOCUMENTS;  

(e)      AGREE THAT
NOTHING HEREIN SHALL AFFECT THE RIGHT TO EFFECT SERVICE OF PROCESS IN ANY OTHER
MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW OR SHALL LIMIT OR OTHERWISE AFFECT THE RIGHT OF THE
AGENT TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING AGAINST THE BORROWER, THE PARENT
GUARANTOR OR INTERPOOL LIMITED OR THEIR PROPERTY IN THE COURTS OF OTHER
JURISDICTIONS;  

(f)      THE BORROWER AND
INTERPOOL LIMITED APPOINT AND DESIGNATE INTERPOOL, INC., HAVING AN ADDRESS AT
633 3RD AVENUE, 27TH FLOOR, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10017, THEIR TRUE AND LAWFUL
ATTORNEY-IN-FACT AND DULY AUTHORIZED AGENT FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF ACCEPTING
SERVICING OF LEGAL PROCESS AND THE BORROWER AND INTERPOOL LIMITED AGREE THAT
SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON SUCH PARTY SHALL CONSTITUTE PERSONAL SERVICE OF SUCH
PROCESS ON THE BORROWER OR INTERPOOL LIMITED, AS THE CASE MAY BE.  

Section 24.        Acknowledgments . The
Borrower, the Parent Guarantor and Interpool Limited each hereby acknowledges
that:  

(a)      it has been
advised by counsel in the negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement
and the other Loan Documents;  

(b)      no Lender has
any fiduciary relationship with or fiduciary duty to the Borrower, the Parent
Guarantor and/or Interpool Limited arising out of or in connection with this
Agreement or any of the other documents, and the relationship between the
Lenders, the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor and Interpool Limited in connection
herewith or therewith is solely that of debtor and creditor; and  

(c)      no joint venture
is created hereby or by any other documents or otherwise exists by virtue of the
transactions contemplated hereby between the Borrower, the Parent Guarantor,
Interpool Limited and the Lenders.  

  * * *  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by
their duty authorized officers as of the day and year first written
above.  

BORROWER  
 
INTERPOOL CONTAINERS LIMITED  

By:              
                
Name: 
Title: 

PARENT GUARANTOR  
 
INTERPOOL, INC.  

By:              
                
Name: 
Title: 

INTERPOOL LIMITED  
 
INTERPOOL LIMITED  

By:              
                
Name: 
Title: 

AGENT  
 
DVB BANK N.V.,  
as Agent 

By:              
                
Name: 
Title: 

By:              
                
Name: 
Title: 

LENDERS  
 
DVB BANK N.V.  

By:              
                
Name: 
Title: 

By:              
                
Name: 
Title: 

DVB Bank N.V. 
Parklaan 2 
3016 BB Rotterdam 
The Netherlands 
Attention: Aad Molenaar / 
Chantal van de Beek 
Telephone: +31 10 206 971 931 
Facsimile: +31 10 436 2547 

ING BANK N.V.  

By:              
                
Name: 
Title: 

By:              
                
Name: 
Title: 

ING Bank N.V. 
Corporate Banking Services Amsterdam 
HE 03.03 
P.O. Box 1800 
1000 BV Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
Attention: Michel Gaffar / Iris Roerdinkholder 
Fax: +31 20 563 5239 

NIBC BANK N.V.  
 
By:              
                
Name: 
Title: 

By:              
                
Name: 
Title: 

Carnegieplein 4 
2517 KJ Den Haag 
The Netherlands

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 14
 interpool-ex1053_030906.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.53

Exhibit 10.53 

EXECUTION COPY   

GUARANTY    

THIS GUARANTY 
(as amended, modified or supplemented in accordance with the terms hereof, this
  Guaranty  ), dated as of December 21, 2005, is made by  INTERPOOL,
INC. , a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware
(together with its successors and its permitted assigns, the   Parent
Guarantor  ), in favor of  DVB BANK N.V. , as agent (in such
capacity, the   Agent  ) for each financial institution which is
now or may hereafter become a party to the Credit Agreement (the
  Lenders  ), dated as of December 21, 2005 (as amended, modified
or supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms, the
  Credit Agreement  ), between Interpool Containers Limited, as
borrower (the   Borrower  ), the Parent Guarantor, Interpool
Limited, the Agent and the Lenders. The Agent and the Lenders are referred to
herein individually as a   Beneficiary   and, collectively, as
the   Beneficiaries  .   

PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS    

WHEREAS , concurrently with the execution of
this Guaranty, the Borrower, the Agent, the Parent Guarantor, Interpool Limited
and the Lenders have entered into the Credit Agreement;   

WHEREAS , it is a condition precedent
to the entering into of the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement
that the Parent Guarantor shall have executed and delivered this Guaranty;  

WHEREAS , the Parent Guarantor
directly or indirectly owns all of the capital stock of the Borrower and will
obtain substantial direct and indirect benefit from the execution and delivery
of the Credit Agreement and is willing to provide this Guaranty on the terms and
conditions set forth herein.   

NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of
the premises and other consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged by the Parent Guarantor, the Parent Guarantor hereby agrees
as follows:   

Section 1. 
   Definitions . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein
(including those used in the preamble) shall have the meaning assigned to such
terms in the Credit Agreement.  

Section 2.    Guaranty .  

(a) The Parent
Guarantor hereby irrevocably, absolutely and unconditionally guarantees, as
primary obligor and as a guarantor of payment and not merely as surety or
guarantor of collection, to the Agent and each Lender, (i) subject to
Section 2(c) below, the full and prompt payment by the Borrower when due of the
Obligations incurred by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement and the
other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party, strictly in accordance
with the terms of such Loan Documents (collectively, the   Payment
Obligations  ), and (ii) the full and timely performance of, and
compliance with, each and every duty, agreement, undertaking, indemnity and
obligation of the Borrower under the Loan Documents strictly in accordance with
the terms thereof, in each case, however created, arising or evidenced, whether
direct or indirect, primary or secondary, absolute or contingent, joint or
several and whether now or hereafter existing or due or to become due (such
payment and other obligations described in clauses (i) and (ii) being
referred to herein as the   Liabilities  ).  

(b) The Parent
Guarantor further agrees to pay any and all costs and expenses (including,
without limitation, all reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) that may
be paid or incurred by the Agent and/or one or more of the Lenders in enforcing
any rights with respect to, or collecting, any or all of the Liabilities or
enforcing any rights with respect to, or collecting against, the Parent
Guarantor hereunder together with interest at the Default Rate specified in the
Credit Agreement from the date when such expenses are so incurred to the date of
actual payment thereof. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
liability of the Parent Guarantor hereunder shall extend to all amounts which
constitute part of the Liabilities and would be owed by the Borrower but for the
fact that such amounts are unenforceable or not allowable due to any
circumstance whatsoever or due to the existence of a bankruptcy, suspension of
payments, reorganization or similar proceeding involving the
Borrower.  

(c) Notwithstanding
anything herein to the contrary, the amount payable by the Parent Guarantor in
respect its obligations arising out of its guarantee of the Payment Obligations
shall not exceed in the aggregate, taking into account any amounts previously
paid by the Parent Guarantor hereunder as at any date of determination, 10% of
the aggregate Net Present Value of all Equipment subject at such time to the
Security Agreement.  

Section 3.   
 Guaranty Absolute . This Guaranty shall constitute a guaranty of payment
and of performance and not of collection, and the Parent Guarantor specifically
agrees that it shall not be necessary, and that the Parent Guarantor shall not
be entitled to require, before or as a condition of enforcing the obligations of
the Parent Guarantor under this Guaranty or requiring payment or performance of
the Liabilities by the Parent Guarantor hereunder, or at any time thereafter,
that any Person: (i) file suit or proceed to obtain or assert a claim for
personal judgment against the Borrower or any other Person that may be liable
for any Liabilities; (ii) make any other effort to obtain payment or
performance of any Liabilities from the Borrower or any other Person that may be
liable for such Liabilities; (iii) foreclose against or seek to realize
upon the Collateral or any other security now or hereafter existing for such
Liabilities; (iv) exercise or assert any other right or remedy to which
such Person is or may be entitled in connection with any Liabilities or any
security or other guaranty therefor; or (v) assert or file any claim
against the assets of any other Person liable for any Liabilities.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no provision of this Guaranty
shall require the Parent Guarantor to pay, perform or discharge any Liabilities
prior to the time such Liabilities are due and payable. When making any demand
hereunder against the Parent Guarantor, none of the Agent or any Lender need
make a similar demand on the Borrower;  provided  that any failure by the
Agent or any Lender to make any such demand or to collect any payments from the
Borrower shall not relieve the Parent Guarantor of its obligations or
liabilities hereunder and shall not impair or affect the rights and remedies,
express or implied, or as a matter of law, of the Agent and/or such Lender
against the Parent Guarantor. The Agent and/or the Lenders may in all events
pursue its rights under this Guaranty prior to or simultaneously with pursuing
its various rights referred to in the Credit Agreement, as the Agent and/or such
Lender may determine.  

The Parent Guarantor
agrees that this Guaranty shall be continuing and the Parent Guarantor
guarantees that the Liabilities will be paid and performed strictly in
accordance with the terms of the applicable Loan Document, regardless of any
law, regulation or order now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction
affecting any of such terms or the rights of the Agent and/or the Lenders with
respect thereto. If for any reason the Borrower shall fail to fully and timely
pay or perform and discharge any Liabilities to be paid or performed by the
Borrower (whether affirmative or negative in character), the Parent Guarantor
shall promptly on demand by the Agent and/or any Lender pay or perform or cause
to be paid or performed, as the case may be, such Liabilities. Each of the
obligations of the Parent Guarantor under this Guaranty is separate and
independent of each other obligation of the Parent Guarantor under this Guaranty
and separate and independent of the Liabilities, and the Parent Guarantor agrees
that a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against the
Parent Guarantor to enforce this Guaranty, irrespective of whether any action is
brought against the Borrower is joined in any such action or actions. The
obligations of the Parent Guarantor shall be continuing and irrevocable,
absolute and unconditional, primary and original and immediate and not
contingent and shall remain in full force and effect without regard to and not
be released, discharged or in any way affected by any circumstance or condition
(other than by payment in full of the Liabilities) including, without
limitation, the occurrence of any one or more of the following:   

(i)     any lack of validity or enforceability of any
of the Liabilities under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents or
any document entered into in connection with the transactions contemplated by
the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents, any provision thereof, or any
other agreement or instrument relating thereto or the absence of any action to
enforce the same; 

(ii)     any failure, omission, delay or lack on the
part of the Agent and/or the Lenders to enforce, assert or exercise any right,
power, privilege or remedy conferred on the Agent and/or the Lenders in the
Credit Agreement, the Security Agreement, this Guaranty or any other Loan
Document, or the inability of the Agent and/or the Lenders to enforce any
provision of the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document for any reason, or
any other act or omission on the part of the Agent or any Lender; 

(iii)     any change in the time, manner or place of
performance or of payment, or in any other term of, all or any of the
Liabilities, or any other modification, supplement, amendment or waiver of or
any consent to departure from the terms and conditions of any of the Credit
Agreement, any other Loan Document or any document entered into in connection
with the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement or the other Loan
Documents; 

(iv)     any taking, exchange, release or
non-perfection of the Collateral or any other collateral or security, or any
taking, release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any other
guaranty, for all or any of the Liabilities or the acceptance of any security
therefor;

(v)     the waiver by the Agent and/or any Lender of
the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of the Liabilities, the
waiver of any default in the performance or observance thereof, any extension by
the Agent and/or any Lender of the time for payment or performance and discharge
by the Borrower of any Liabilities or any extension, indulgence or renewal of
any Liabilities;

(vi)     any bankruptcy, suspension of payments,
insolvency, sale of assets, winding-up, dissolution, liquidation, receivership
or reorganization of, or similar proceedings involving the Borrower or its
assets or any resulting release or discharge of any of the Liabilities; 

(vii)     the recovery of any judgment against any
Person or any action to enforce the same; 

(viii)     any failure or delay in the enforcement of
the Liabilities of any Person under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan
Document or any document entered into in connection with the transactions
contemplated by the Credit Agreement or the other Loan Documents or any
provision thereof; 

(ix)     any set-off, counterclaim, deduction, defense,
abatement, suspension, deferment, diminution, recoupment, limitation or
termination available with respect to any Liabilities and, to the extent
permitted by Applicable Law, irrespective of any other circumstances that might
otherwise limit recourse by or against the Parent Guarantor or any other
Person; 

(x)     the obtaining, the amendment or the release of
or consent to any departure from the primary or secondary obligation of any
other Person, in addition to the Parent Guarantor, with respect to any
Liabilities; 

(xi)     any compromise, alteration, amendment,
modification, extension, renewal, release or other change, or waiver, consent or
other action, or delay or omission or failure to act, in respect of any of the
terms, covenants or conditions of the Credit Agreement, any other Loan Document
or any document entered into in connection with the transactions contemplated by
the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any other agreement or any
related document referred to therein, or any assignment or transfer of any
thereof; 

(xii)     any manner of application of Collateral or
Proceeds thereof, to all or any of the Liabilities, or any manner of sale or
other disposition of any Collateral, or any furnishing or acceptance of
additional collateral; 

(xiii)     any change in control in the ownership of
the Borrower, any change, merger, demerger, consolidation, restructuring or
termination of the corporate structure or existence of the Borrower or any of
its Subsidiaries; 

(xiv)     to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable
Law, any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a defense available
to, or a discharge of, a guarantor or surety with respect to any
Liabilities; 

(xv)     any default, failure or delay, whether as a
result of actual or alleged force majeure, commercial impracticability or
otherwise, in the performance of the Liabilities, or by any other act or
circumstances which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of
the Parent Guarantor, or which would otherwise operate as a discharge of the
Parent Guarantor; 

(xvi)     the existence of any other obligation of the
Parent Guarantor, or any limitation thereof, in the Credit Agreement or any
other Loan Document; 

(xvii)     any regulatory change or other governmental
action (whether or not adverse); or 

(xviii)     the partial payment or performance of the
Liabilities (whether as a result of the exercise of any right, remedy, power or
privilege or otherwise) or the invalidity of any payment for any reason
whatsoever. 

Should any money due or
owing under this Guaranty not be recoverable from the Parent Guarantor due to
any of the matters specified in clauses (i) through (xviii) above or for
any other reason, then, in any such case, such money shall nevertheless be
recoverable from the Parent Guarantor as though the Parent Guarantor were
principal debtor in respect thereof and not merely a guarantor and shall be paid
by the Parent Guarantor forthwith.   

This Guaranty shall continue to be effective
or be automatically reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment,
or any part thereof, of any of the Liabilities is rescinded or must otherwise be
restored or returned by the Agent and/or any Lender for any reason whatsoever,
whether upon the insolvency, bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or
reorganization of the Borrower or otherwise, all as though such payment had not
been made, and the Parent Guarantor agrees that it will indemnify the Agent and
each Lender on demand for all reasonable costs and expenses (including, without
limitation, fees and disbursement of counsel) incurred by any such Person in
connection with such rescission or restoration. If an event permitting the
exercise of remedies under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document shall
at any time have occurred and be continuing and such exercise, or any
consequences thereof provided in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan
Document, shall at such time be prevented by reason of the pendency against the
Borrower of a case or proceeding under a bankruptcy or insolvency law, the
Parent Guarantor agrees that, for purposes of this Guaranty and its obligations
hereunder, amounts payable under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan
Documents shall be deemed to have been declared in default, with all attendant
consequences as provided in the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents as
if such declaration of default and the consequences thereof had been
accomplished in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement and the other
Loan Documents, and the Parent Guarantor shall forthwith pay any amounts
guaranteed hereunder, without further notice or demand.   

Section 4.    Waiver .
To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Parent Guarantor hereby
expressly and irrevocably waives diligence, promptness, demand for payment or
performance, filing of claims with any court, any proceeding to enforce any
provision of the Loan Documents, notice of acceptance of and reliance on this
Guaranty by the Agent and each Lender, notice of the creation of any liabilities
of the Borrower, any requirement that the Agent or any Lender protect, secure,
perfect or insure any security interest or lien on the Collateral or any
property subject thereto, any right to require a proceeding first against the
Borrower, whether to marshal any assets or to exhaust any right or take any
action against the Borrower or any other Person or entity or any collateral or
otherwise, any diligence in collection or protection of or realization upon any
Liabilities, any obligation hereunder or any collateral security for any of the
foregoing, any right of protest, presentment, notice or demand whatsoever, all
claims of waiver, release, surrender, alteration or compromise, and all
defenses, set-offs, counterclaims, recoupments, reductions, limitations,
impairments or terminations, whether arising hereunder or otherwise.  

Section 5.    Certain
Actions . The Agent and each Lender may, from time to time at its sole
discretion and without notice to Parent Guarantor, take any or all of the
following actions without affecting the obligations of Parent Guarantor
hereunder: (i) retain or obtain a lien upon or a security interest in any
property to secure any of the Liabilities or any obligation hereunder;
(ii) retain or obtain the primary or secondary obligation of any obligor or
obligors, in addition to Parent Guarantor, with respect to any of the
Liabilities or any obligation hereunder; (iii) with consent of the
Borrower, extend or renew for one or more periods (regardless of whether longer
than the original period), alter or exchange any of the Liabilities, or release
or compromise any obligation of Parent Guarantor hereunder or any obligation of
any nature of any other obligor (including the Agent) with respect to any of the
Liabilities; (iv) release or fail to perfect any lien upon or security
interest in, or impair, surrender, release or permit any substitution or
exchange for, all or any part of any property securing any of the Liabilities or
any obligation hereunder, or extend or renew for one or more periods (regardless
of whether longer than the original period) or release, compromise, alter or
exchange any obligations of any nature of any obligor with respect to any such
property; and (v) resort to Parent Guarantor for payment of any of the
Liabilities, regardless of whether the Agent or the Lender, as the case may be,
shall have resorted to any property securing any of the Liabilities or any
obligation hereunder or shall have proceeded against any other obligor primarily
or secondarily obligated with respect to any of the Liabilities.  

Section 6.    Subrogation .
Any amounts received by the Agent or any Lender from whatsoever source on
account of the Liabilities may be applied by it toward the payment of such of
the Liabilities, and in such order of application, as the Agent or such Lender
may from time to time elect. No payment made by or for the account of Parent
Guarantor pursuant to this Guaranty shall entitle Parent Guarantor by
subrogation, indemnity or otherwise to any payment by the Agent or the Lender,
as the case may be, from or out of any property of such Person, and Parent
Guarantor shall not exercise any right or remedy against the Agent or the
Lender, as the case may be, or any property of such Person by reason of any
performance by Parent Guarantor of this Guaranty.  

Section 7.    Rights of Third
Parties; Set-off . (a)  This Guaranty is made only for the benefit
of, and shall be enforceable only by, the Agent and each Lender, and this
Guaranty shall not be construed to create any right in any Person other than the
Agent and each Lender to be a contract in whole or in part for the benefit of
any Person other than the Agent and each Lender.  

(b)  Upon
the occurrence of any Event of Default under the Credit Agreement, the Parent
Guarantor hereby irrevocably authorizes the Agent, each Lender and each of their
respective Affiliates, at any time and from time to time without notice to the
Parent Guarantor, any such notice being expressly waived by the Parent
Guarantor, to set-off and appropriate and apply any and all assets, at any time
held or owing by the Parent Guarantor or any of its Affiliates to, or for the
credit of the account of the Parent Guarantor, or any part thereof in such
amounts as the Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, may elect, against and
on account of the obligations and liabilities of the Parent Guarantor to the
Agent and each Lender hereunder of every nature and description of the Agent and
each Lender. The Agent shall notify the Parent Guarantor promptly of any such
set-off and the application made by the Agent, provided that the failure to give
such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The
rights of the Agent under this Section are in addition to other rights and
remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) which the
Agent and the Lenders may have.  

Section 8.    Representations
and Warranties . Parent Guarantor represents and warrants to the Agent and
each Lender as follows:  

(a)   Access
to Information . Parent Guarantor has and will continue to have independent
means of obtaining information concerning the Borrower s affairs, financial
condition and business. None of the Agent or any Lender shall have any duty or
responsibility to provide Parent Guarantor with any credit or other information
concerning the Borrower s affairs, financial condition or business which
may come into the possession of the Agent or any Lender.  

(b)   Organization
and Good Standing . It is a corporation organized, validly existing and in
compliance under the laws of the State of Delaware, with corporate power and
authority to own its properties and to conduct its business as such properties
are presently owned and such business is presently conducted.  

(c)   Due
Qualification . It is duly licensed, qualified and authorized to do business
and is in good standing in each jurisdiction where the ownership, leasing or
operation of its property or the conduct of its business requires such licensure
or qualification except for failures to be so qualified which, individually or
in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse
effect on the business, operations, property, assets, liabilities, financial
condition or prospects of Parent Guarantor.  

(d)   Power
and Authority; Due Authorization . It has (i) all necessary power,
authority and legal right to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under
this Guaranty and (ii) duly authorized by all necessary corporate action
such execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty.  

(e)   Binding
Obligations . This Guaranty constitutes the legal, valid and binding
obligation of Parent Guarantor, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except
as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or
other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors  rights generally
and by general principles of equity, regardless of whether such enforceability
is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.  

(f)   No
Violation . The execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty will not
(i) conflict with, or result in any breach of any of the terms and
provisions of, or constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time or both) a
default under (A) the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of Parent
Guarantor or (B) any indenture, lease, loan agreement, receivables purchase
agreement, mortgage, deed of trust, or other agreement or instrument to which
Parent Guarantor is a party or by which it or its property is bound,
(ii) result in or require the creation or imposition of any lien upon any
of its properties pursuant to the terms of any such indenture, lease, loan
agreement, receivables purchase agreement, mortgage, deed of trust, or other
agreement or instrument or (iii) violate any law or any order, rule,
regulation applicable to Parent Guarantor of any court or of any federal, state
or foreign regulatory body, administrative agency or other governmental
instrumentality having jurisdiction over Parent Guarantor or any of its
properties.  

(g)   Not
Insolvent . The execution, delivery and performance by the Parent Guarantor
of this Guaranty will not render the Parent Guarantor insolvent, nor is it being
made in contemplation of the Parent Guarantor s insolvency; the Parent
Guarantor does not, in its reasonable judgment, have an unreasonably small
capital for conducting its business as presently contemplated by
it.  

Section 9.   
 Successors and Assigns .  

(a)  
This Guaranty shall be binding upon Parent Guarantor and upon Parent
Guarantor s successors and assigns and all references herein to Parent
Guarantor or the Agent shall be deemed to include any successor or successors
whether immediate or remote, to such Person. Parent Guarantor shall not assign
any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of
the Agent and each Lender.  

(b)   This
Guaranty shall inure to the benefit of the Agent, each Lender and their
respective successors and assigns, and all references herein to the Agent or any
Lender shall be deemed to include any successors and assigns of such Person
(whether or not reference in a particular provision is made to such successors
and assigns).  

Section 10.   
 GOVERNING LAW . THIS GUARANTY SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND
GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING SECTION 5-1401 AND
5-1402 OF THE GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO ANY
CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES CONTAINED THEREIN. Wherever possible each provision
of this Guaranty shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and
valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Guaranty shall be
prohibited by or invalid under such law, such provision shall be ineffective
only to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the
remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this
Guaranty.  

Section 11.    CONSENT TO
JURISDICTION; WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL . THE AGENT AND EACH LENDER
MAY ENFORCE ANY CLAIM ARISING OUT OF THIS GUARANTY AND ANY OTHER LOAN
DOCUMENT TO WHICH THE PARENT GUARANTOR IS A PARTY IN ANY STATE OR FEDERAL COURT
HAVING SUBJECT MATTER JURISDICTION AND LOCATED IN THE STATE AND COUNTY OF NEW
YORK AND WITH RESPECT TO ANY SUCH CLAIM, PARENT GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY
SUBMITS TO THE JURISDICTION OF SUCH COURTS. NOTHING HEREIN CONTAINED SHALL
PRECLUDE THE AGENT OR ANY LENDER FROM BRINGING AN ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN
RESPECT HEREOF IN ANY OTHER COUNTRY, STATE OR PLACE HAVING JURISDICTION OVER
SUCH ACTION. PARENT GUARANTOR IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT
PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE
LAYING OF THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A
COURT LOCATED IN THE STATE AND COUNTY OF NEW YORK AND ANY CLAIM THAT ANY SUCH
SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH COURT HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN AN
INCONVENIENT FORUM. PARENT GUARANTOR HEREBY EXPRESSLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO A
TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING TO ENFORCE OR DEFEND ANY RIGHTS UNDER
THIS GUARANTY OR UNDER ANY AMENDMENT, INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT
DELIVERED OR WHICH MAY IN THE FUTURE BE DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR
ARISING FROM ANY RELATIONSHIP EXISTING IN CONNECTION WITH THIS GUARANTY, AND
AGREES THAT ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE TRIED BEFORE A COURT AND NOT
BEFORE A JURY.  

Section 12.   
 Notices . All notices, demands or requests given pursuant to this
Agreement shall be in writing personally delivered, or sent by facsimile (with
subsequent telephone confirmation of receipt thereof) or sent by internationally
recognized overnight courier service, to the following addresses:  

To Lenders: 
 At the address set forth in the Credit Agreement 

Notice shall be effective and deemed
received (a) two (2) days after being delivered to the courier service, if
sent by courier, (b) upon receipt of confirmation of transmission, if sent
by telecopy, or (c) when delivered, if delivered by hand. Either party may
alter the address to which communications are to be sent by such change of
address in conformity with the provisions of this Section 12 for giving
notice and by otherwise complying with any applicable terms of this Guaranty.

Section 13.    Termination .
Subject to the provisions of the final paragraph of Section 3 hereof, this
Guaranty shall terminate upon the earlier to occur of (i) discharge of the
Credit Agreement; and (ii) satisfaction in full of the Liabilities.  

[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , this Guaranty has been
executed and delivered by Parent Guarantor s duly authorized officer as of
the date first written above.   

INTERPOOL, INC.  

By:             

Name: 
       Title: 

Accepted and Agreed: 

DVB BANK N.V.,  not in its individual capacity but solely
as Agent under the Credit Agreement 

By:             

Name: 
       Title: 

By:             

Name: 
       Title: 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 15
 interpool-ex1054_030906.htm
 EX-10.54

Ex-10.54  

EXECUTION VERSION  

SALE AGREEMENT   

INTERPOOL CONTAINERS
LIMITED,   

AS SELLER,   

INTERPOOL, INC.,   

AS THE INDIRECT PARENT
OF SELLER,   

and 
 
P   R EQUIPMENT AND FINANCE CORP,   

AS PURCHASER   

Dated as of 
 
March 14, 2006   

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Page    

ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS  
 1 

ARTICLE II. SALE OF CONTAINERS  
 9 

ARTICLE III. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES  
 13 

Section 3.01 Representations and Warranties of the Parent and the Seller 
Section 3.02 Representations and Warranties of the Purchaser  
 13 
21 

ARTICLE IV. COVENANTS OF PARENT AND SELLERS  
 23 

ARTICLE V. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT  
 25 

ARTICLE VI. TERMINATION  
 27 

ARTICLE VII. INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENTS  
 29 

ARTICLE VIII. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS  
 33 

EXHIBITS    

A-1 
A-2 
A-3 
B-1 
C-1 
C-2 
C-3A 
C-3B 
C-4 
C-5 

List of Containers (Interpool Containers Limited) 
List of Containers (CAI) 
Substitute List of Containers 
Form of Container Sale Certificate 
Master Equipment Lease Agreement  - Interpool Containers Limited 
Finance Lease - Interpool Containers Limited 
Operating Lease - Interpool Containers Limited 
Operating Lease - Interpool Containers Limited 
Master Equipment Lease Agreement - CAI 
Operating Lease - CAI 

SCHEDULES    

1 
2 

CEU Value by Container Type 
Wire Instructions 

SALE AGREEMENT   

THIS
SALE AGREEMENT, dated as of March 14, 2006 (as amended, restated, modified or supplemented
from time to time in accordance with its terms, this   Agreement  ), is
entered into among  INTERPOOL CONTAINERS LIMITED  (together with its successors and
permitted assigns,   Interpool   or   Seller  ), a Barbados
company with its chief executive office at 211 College Road East, Princeton, New Jersey
08540 USA,  INTERPOOL, INC.  (together with its successors and permitted assigns,
  Parent  ), a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business at
211 College Road East, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, and  P   R EQUIPMENT AND FINANCE
CORP  (together with its successors and permitted assigns, the
  Purchaser  ), a Swiss company with its chief executive office at
Industriestrasse 6, 6301 Zug, Switzerland.   

  W I T N E S S E T H :  

WHEREAS,
in contemplation of this Agreement, the Seller has agreed to sell, transfer and assign to
the Purchaser on the Funding Date, and the Purchaser has agreed to accept on the Funding
Date, all right, title and interest of the Seller in, to and under the Sold Assets sold by
the Seller upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;   

NOW,
THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and other good and
valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged, the
parties hereto agree as follows:   

ARTICLE I. 
 DEFINITIONS    

Section 1.01  Definitions .    

Capitalized
terms herein shall have the following meanings and the definitions of such terms shall be
equally applicable to the singular and plural forms of such terms:   

Actual
Fleet Size   The total number of CEUs included in the Sold Containers, based on
data produced as of the Cut-Off Date and delivered to the Purchaser pursuant to  Section
2.05(c)  hereof.   

Adjustment
Date   This term shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.05(a) .   

Affiliate  
With respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling,
controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For
the purposes of this definition,  control , when used with respect to any
specified Person, means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person,
directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or
otherwise; and the terms  controlling  and  controlled  have meanings
correlative to the foregoing.   

Agreement  
This term shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.   

Applicable
Law   With respect to any Person or Sold Asset, all existing laws, rules,
guidelines, regulations (including proposed, temporary and final income tax regulations),
statutes, treaties, codes, ordinances, permits, certificates, orders and licenses of and
interpretations by any Governmental Authority and judgments, decrees, injunctions, writs,
or orders of any court, arbitrator or other administrative, judicial, or quasi-judicial
tribunal or agency of competent jurisdiction applicable to such Person or Sold Asset.   

Assumed
Fleet Size   Based on data produced as of February 28, 2006, this term shall mean
367,000 CEUs.   

Bankruptcy
Code   The Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978, as amended from time to time, and any
successor statute thereto.   

CAI   Container Applications International, Inc., a Nevada corporation and its
successors and permitted assigns.  

CAI
Lease   Each Lease entered into by CAI, whether in its own name as lessor or as
agent for the lessor, in each case for and on behalf of the Seller.   

Casualty
Loss   Any of the following events with respect to any Sold Container: (a) thirty
(30) days following the Seller s determination that such Sold Container is damaged
beyond repair or permanently rendered unfit for use for any reason whatsoever (including
loss, theft or destruction), (b) the seizure, condemnation or confiscation of such Sold
Container for a period exceeding sixty (60) days, or (c) if such Sold Container is subject
to a Lease Agreement, such Sold Container shall have been deemed under its Lease Agreement
to have suffered a casualty loss. In determining the date on which a Casualty Loss
occurred, the application of the time frames set forth in clauses (a) through (c) above
shall in no event result in the deemed occurrence of a Casualty Loss prior to the date on
which an officer of the Purchaser or the Seller obtains actual knowledge of such Casualty
Loss.   

CEU  
A cost-equivalent unit that is a fixed unit of measurement based on the cost of a
Container relative to the cost of a twenty (20) foot standard dry freight Container, which
cost shall be determined by reference to  Schedule 1  of this Agreement.   

CEU
Price   This term shall mean $1,403.27.   

Closing
Date   This term shall mean March 14, 2006.   

Container  
Any dry cargo, domestic storage, high cube or other type of marine or intermodal container
(including any related equipment) owned by the Seller.   

Container
Identification Number   The unique alpha numeric code assigned to a Sold
Container.   

Container
Representations and Warranties   With respect to each Sold Container, the
representations and warranties of Parent and Seller as set forth in paragraphs (v) through
(tt) inclusive of  Section 3.01 .   

Container
Sale Certificate   A Container Sale Certificate, substantially in the form of
 Exhibit B  hereto, executed and delivered by the Seller and the Purchaser in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement.   

Cut-Off
Date   This term shall mean April 1, 2006.   

Dollars   or   $   The lawful currency of the United States
of America.   

Escrow
Agent   This term shall mean Wells Fargo Bank Northwest, N.A.   

Escrow Letter  
That certain Escrow Letter, dated as of the Closing Date, by the Purchaser and the Seller,
as acknowledged and consented to by the Escrow Agent.   

Excluded
Amounts   All of the following: (i) any payments received from a Lessee in
connection with any late charges, taxes, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental
Authority, or (ii) any indemnity payments made by a Lessee or payments made for the
benefit of any Person pursuant to a liability insurance policy.   

Final
Purchase Price   This term shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 2.01(a) .   

Finance
Lease   A lease which satisfies the criteria for classification as a direct
financing lease pursuant to GAAP.   

Fortis
Financing   A loan by Fortis Capital Corp. to PRB Limited in an amount not less
than $416,150,000 to enable it to fund a portion of the purchase price of the Sold Assets.   

Funding  
The sale of the Sold Assets pursuant to this Agreement.   

Funding Date   This term shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 2.01(a) .   

GAAP  
Those generally accepted accounting principles in the United States as in effect from time
to time. Unless otherwise defined or the context otherwise requires, all accounting terms
used herein shall be construed, and all accounting determinations and computations
required hereunder shall be made, in accordance with GAAP in effect on the date on which
they are applied, and shall be applied consistently throughout the relevant
periods.     

Governmental Authority   Any one of the following: (i) any federal, state,
county, municipal or foreign government, or political subdivision thereof, (ii) any
governmental or quasi-governmental agency, authority, board, bureau, commission,
department, instrumentality or public body, (iii) any court or administrative tribunal or
(iv) with respect to any Person, any arbitration tribunal or other non-governmental
authority to whose jurisdiction that Person has consented.   

Indemnified Cost   This term shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
7.01 .   

Insolvency
Law   The Bankruptcy Code or any similar Applicable Law in Barbados or in any
other applicable jurisdiction.   

Insurance
Policy   With respect to any Lease, an insurance policy covering physical damage
to the related Sold Containers or covering any liabilities arising from the related Sold
Container or use thereof.   

Interpool 
 This term shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble of this Agreement.   

Lease   or
  Lease Agreement   Each and every item of chattel paper, installment sales
agreement, equipment lease or rental agreement (including progress payment authorizations)
to which a Sold Container is subject (but only to the extent such lease relates to a Sold
Container), including (i) all rental and other payments with respect to such Sold
Container to be made by the Lessee thereunder that accrue on or after the Cut-Off Date,
(ii) all rights of the lessor thereunder relating to such Sold Container and (iii) any and
all amendments, renewals and extensions thereof relating to such Sold Container.   

Lease
File   With respect to each Lease included in the Sold Assets, the file containing
all of the following:   

(i)   
                       
                    Except with respect to the CAI Leases or Split Leases included in the Sold
                    Assets, an originally executed or acknowledged counterpart of the Lease, lease
                    supplement, lease addendum and/or lease schedule, executed by each of the lessor
                    and the Lessee (unless such Lessee does not ordinarily execute such documents
                    with container lessors, in which case an acceptable substitute will be
                    available);    

(ii)   
                       
                    A photocopy of CAI Leases, including the related the Master Equipment Lease
                    Agreement of such Lease (unless the Lessee under such Lease does not ordinarily
                    execute such documents with container lessors, in which case an acceptable
                    substitute will be available);    

(iii)  
                       
                    guarantees and other collateral for such Lease, if any; and    

(iv)  
                       
                    any amendments or assignments, if any.    

If
applicable, the Seller shall identify any Lease File that may relate to a Lease that is a
Split Lease.   

Lessee  
Any Person who leases or subleases a Sold Container pursuant to a Lease.   

Lien  
Any security interest, lien, charge, pledge, equity or encumbrance of any kind.   

List
of Containers   A true and complete list of all Sold Containers to be conveyed by
the Seller on the Funding Date and the following information for each such Sold Container
as of February 28, 2006 or the Cut-Off Date, as applicable:  (i) Container
Indentification Number, (ii) description and type, (iii) acquisition date, (iv)
if subject to a Lease, the identity of the Lessee, the related Lease number and Lease
type, the per diem rental in effect at month end, the Lease start and expiry dates,
whether an option to purchase such Sold Container has been granted and amount for which
any such purchase option may be exercised, and whether the Sold Container is covered by
Damage Protection Plan coverage, and (v) if not subject to a Lease, its location and
repair status.   

Management
Agreement   Either or both, as the context may require, of (i) that certain PRB
Management Agreement, to be dated as of the Closing Date, among PRB Limited, CAI and
Interpool, as the same may be amended from time to time and (ii) that certain P R
Management Agreement, to be dated as of the Closing Date, among the Purchaser, CAI and
Interpool, as the same may be amended from time to time.   

Manager  
The Person(s) performing the duties of the Manager under the Management Agreement;
initially, CAI.   

Master
Equipment Lease Agreement   An agreement substantially in the form of  Exhibit
C-1  or  Exhibit C-4  hereto.   

Net
Final Purchase Price   This term shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 2.01(b) .   

OFAC 
 The Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury.   

Offsetting Recovery  
This term shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.01(b) .   

Officer  
Any officer of the Person in question who, in the ordinary course of such officer s
duties, would be familiar with the matters relating to the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement.   

Parent   shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.   

Permissible
Container Type   A Sold Container that is classified as any one of the following:   

(i)  
          twenty foot dry cargo;   

(ii)  
          forty foot dry cargo;   

(iii)  
          forty-five foot dry cargo;   

(iv)  
          fifty-three foot dry cargo;   

(v)  
          forty foot high cube; or   

(vi)  
          forty-five foot high cube.   

Permitted
Lien   With respect to the Sold Assets, any or all of the following:   

(i)   
                       
                    Liens for Taxes not yet delinquent or which are being contested in good faith by
                    appropriate Proceedings and for the payment of which adequate cash reserves are
                    maintained by a Manager;    

(ii)   
                       
                    with respect to the Sold Containers, carriers , warehousemens ,
                    mechanics , or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business
                    and relating to amounts not yet due or which shall not have been overdue for a
                    period of more than (60) days or which are being contested in good faith by
                    appropriate Proceedings and for the payment of which adequate cash reserves are
                    maintained by a Manager, provided, however, in no event shall any such contest
                    result in the loss of an affected Sold Container;    

(iii)   
                       
                    with respect to the Sold Containers, Leases entered into in the ordinary course
                    of business providing for the leasing of Sold Containers;    

(iv)  
                       
                    with respect to any Sold Container then on Lease, any purchase option of a
                    Lessee set forth on the List of Containers; and    

(v)  
                       
                    Liens created by this Agreement.   

Person   An individual, a partnership, a limited liability company, a
corporation, a joint venture, an unincorporated association, a joint-stock company, a
trust, a national banking association, an unincorporated organization, any other entity or
a Governmental Authority.   

PRB
Limited   This term shall mean PRB Limited, a Bermuda corporation and an Affiliate
of Purchaser.   

Premium
Recapture   This term shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.01(b) .   

Proceeding  
Any suit in equity, action at law, or other judicial or administrative proceeding.   

Proceeds  
This term shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9-102(a)(64) of the UCC.   

Purchaser  
This term shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.   

Purchaser
Deposit   This term shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 6.02(c)(i) .   

Records  
All contracts and other documents, purchase orders, invoices, agreements, books, records
and other information maintained with respect to Sold Assets and the related Persons which
the Seller has generated, in which the Purchaser has acquired an interest pursuant to this
Agreement or in which the Purchaser has otherwise obtained an interest, provided, however,
that Records shall not include computer programs, tapes, disks, punch cards, data
processing software, similar electronic media or related property or rights.   

Related
Assets   With respect to any Sold Container, all of the following: (i) all of the
Seller s right, title and interest in, to and under, the Leases and all amendments,
additions and supplements including schedules, summary schedules and subschedules made or
hereafter made with respect thereto; (ii) all accrued but unpaid rental receivables owing
with respect to the Leases on the Cut-Off Date and all monies due or to become due in
payment of the Leases on or after the Cut-Off Date, including all rental and other
payments with respect thereto, and any liquidation, casualty or termination proceeds
received with respect thereto, but excluding any Excluded Amounts; (iii) all other
documents relating to the Leases including rights under any UCC financing statements or
documents of similar import filed against the related Lessee; (iv) proceeds payable to the
Purchaser of all Insurance Policies maintained by, or on behalf of a Lessee, under a Lease
with respect to the foregoing; (v) all guarantees, Supporting Obligations or other credit
support supporting or securing payment of any Lease; (vi) any agreements with the dealer
or manufacturer of the related Sold Containers but only to the extent that such rights
specifically relate to the Sold Containers; (vii) any maintenance agreement or any
agreement pursuant to which a Lease was acquired from a third party or any Affiliate, in
each case to the extent specifically relating to a Lease, and (viii) all Proceeds and
income of the foregoing or relating thereto.   

Related
Documents   This Agreement, the Management Agreements, the Escrow Letter and each
other document or instrument executed by the Parent or the Seller in connection herewith
or therewith.   

Sanctioned
Country   A country subject to a sanctions program identified on the list
maintained by OFAC and available at
http://www.treas.gov/offices/eotffc/ofac/sanctions/index.html, or as otherwise published
from time to time.   

Sanctioned
Person   Any of the following currently or in the future: (i) a person named on
the list of Specially Designated Nationals or Blocked Persons maintained by OFAC and
available at http://www.treas.gov/offices/eotffc/ofac/sdn/index.html, or (ii) (A) an
agency of the government of a Sanctioned Country, (B) an organization controlled by a
Sanctioned Country, or (C) a person resident in a Sanctioned Country, to the extent the
agency, organization, or person is subject to a sanctions program administered by OFAC.   

Seller 
 This term shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.   

Seller
Deposit   This term shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
6.02(c)(ii) .   

Sold
Assets   The Sold Containers and Related Assets, collectively and including,
without limitation, all rights to lease rental payments for the Sold Containers accruing
from and after the Cut-Off Date.   

Sold
Container   A Container sold by the Seller to the Purchaser in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement, as more particularly identified on the attached  Exhibits
A-1  and  A-2 , and, to the extent any additional Containers are tendered pursuant
to  Section 2.05(b) , the Containers identified on  Schedule 1  to the Container
Sale Certificate delivered on the Adjustment Date.   

Split
Lease   Any lease to which a Sold Container is subject that also relates to
Containers that are not Sold Containers.   

Submanager  
This term shall have the meaning set forth in the Management Agreement.   

Substitute
Container List   A true and complete list of all Containers eligible to be
conveyed by the Seller on the Adjustment Date and the following information for each such
Sold Container as of February 28, 2006 or the Cut-Off Date, as
applicable:  (i) Container Indentification Number, (ii) description
and type, (iii) acquisition date, (iv) if subject to a Lease, the identity of the
Lessee, the related Lease number and Lease type, the per diem rental in effect at month
end, the Lease start and expiry dates, whether an option to purchase such Sold Container
has been granted and amount for which any such purchase option may be exercised, and
whether the Sold Container is covered by Damage Protection Plan coverage, and (v) if not
subject to a Lease, its location and repair status.   

Supporting
Obligation    This term shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9-102(a)(77)
of the UCC.   

Tax Benefit   An amount by which the Tax liability of any party (or group of
Affiliates including such party) is actually reduced (including by deduction, reduction of
income by virtue of increased tax basis or otherwise, entitlement to refund, credit or
otherwise) after taking into account any increase in such party s Tax liability as a
result of its receipt of any related indemnity payment plus any related interest received
from the relevant Taxing Authority. Where a party has other losses, deductions, credits or
items available to it, the Tax Benefit from any losses, deductions, credits or items
relating to the Indemnified Costs shall be deemed to be realized on a pro rata basis with
any other losses, deductions, credits or items of such party (or group of Affiliates
including such party).   

Taxes 
 Any and all taxes, levies, imposts, duties, fees, assessments, deductions,
withholdings or other charges of whatever nature, including gross receipts, excise,
property, sales, transfer, license, payroll, social security and franchise taxes now or
hereafter imposed or levied by the United States of America, or any state or local
government or by any department, agency or other political subdivision or taxing authority
thereof and all interest, penalties, additions to tax or similar liabilities with respect
thereto.   

Taxing
Authority   Any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the assessment,
determination, collection or other imposition of Taxes.   

UCC   The Uniform Commercial Code as the same may, from time to time, be in
effect in the State of New York;  provided, however,  in the event that, by reason of
mandatory provisions of law, any or all of the attachment, perfection or priority of the
Purchaser s security interest (if any) in any Sold Assets is governed by the Uniform
Commercial Code as in effect in a jurisdiction other than the State of New York, the term
 UCC  shall mean the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in such other
jurisdiction for purposes of the provisions hereof relating to such attachment, perfection
or priority and for purposes of definitions related to such provisions.   

Section 1.02  Interpretative Provisions .    

For purposes of this
Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context
otherwise requires:   

(a)     the terms defined in this Agreement have the
meanings assigned to them in this Agreement and include the plural as well as
the singular, and the use of any gender herein shall be deemed to include the
other gender;   

(b)     accounting terms not otherwise defined herein
have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles as in effect on the date hereof;   

(c)     references herein to  Articles ,
 Sections ,  Subsections ,  paragraphs , and other
subdivisions without reference to a document are to designated Articles,
Sections, Subsections, paragraphs and other subdivisions of this Agreement;

(d)     a reference to a Subsection without further
reference to a Section is a reference to such Subsection as contained in the
same Section in which the reference appears, and this rule shall also apply to
paragraphs and other subdivisions;   

(e)     the words  herein ,
 hereof ,  hereunder  and other words of similar import
refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision; and

(f)     the term  include  or
 including  shall mean without limitation by reason of enumeration.

ARTICLE II. 
 SALE OF CONTAINERS   

Section 2.01  Sale
of Sold Assets .   

(a)     On March 31, 2006 or such other date as may be mutually
agreed by the Seller and the Purchaser at least two (2) Business Days prior to
such date (the   Funding Date  ), the Seller will assign, convey,
sell, deliver, grant and transfer to the Purchaser, and the Purchaser will
acquire from the Seller, all of the Seller s rights, title and interest in,
to and under the Sold Assets set forth on  Exhibits A-1  and  A-2 
hereto, provided however, that any revenue or monies with respect to the Sold
Assets accruing before the Cut-Off Date shall be for the account of the Seller
and any revenue or monies accruing on or after the Cut-Off Date, shall be for
the account of the Purchaser. Each of the Seller and the Purchaser agree that
the purchase price of the Sold Assets to be acquired from the Seller (the
  Final Purchase Price  ) will be $515,000,000;  provided ,
that, in conjunction with the payment of the Final Purchase Price, the Final
Purchase Price will be supplemented with any payment required by  Section
2.05(e)  below; and  provided ,  further , the Final Purchase Price
shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with  Section 2.05(a)  below.

If the sale of the
Sold Assets is determined to be subject to any sales tax, the Final Purchase
Price shall be deemed inclusive of any such Tax. For the avoidance of doubt, it
is understood and agreed that all revenue (including lease payments)
attributable to the Sold Assets prior to the Cut-Off Date shall be for the
account of the Seller and all revenue (including lease payments) attributable to
the Sold Assets from and after the Cut-Off Date shall be for the account of the
Purchaser.   

(b)     Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, on
the Funding Date, the Purchaser hereby agrees to pay to the Seller the Final
Purchase Price, less the amount of the Seller Deposit (the   Net Final
Purchase Price  ) for its Sold Assets in full by making wire transfers
of immediately available funds to the Seller in the amount set forth above. In
connection with the conveyance set forth in this
 Section 2.01 , the Seller shall, (i) execute and deliver each of the
documents set forth in  Section 2.02(a)  hereof, and (ii) complete the
actions required by  Section 2.03(b)  hereof.   

Section 2.02  Sale
of Containers and Related Assets .   

(a)     In connection with the sale of
Sold Assets by the Seller to the Purchaser in accordance with the provisions of
 Section 2.01  of this Agreement and any tender of additional Containers
pursuant to  Section 2.05(b) , the Seller shall execute and deliver to the
Purchaser each of the following:   

(i)     On the Funding Date and the Adjustment Date, as applicable,
a completed Container Sale Certificate which certificate shall operate as an
assignment of all the Seller s right, title, and interest in and to the
Sold Assets identified in such certificate; 

(ii)     On the Funding Date and the
Adjustment Date, as applicable, each Lease File associated with the Sold Assets
to the applicable Manager, with duplicate copies thereof on CD-ROM to the
Purchaser (within 15 days of the Funding Date); and 

(iii)     On the Funding Date and the
Adjustment Date, as applicable, a data file that provides the information set
forth on the List of Containers. 

(b)      Within one (1) Business Day following the
Funding Date or the Adjustment Date, as applicable, the Seller shall send a
notice of assignment to the applicable Manager related to the Sold Containers
which notice shall advise the Manager of the absolute sale of such Sold Assets
by the Seller to the Purchaser.   

Section 2.03
 Required Financing Statements and Filings; Marking of Records .   

(a)      In connection with the sale of Sold Assets by
the Seller on the Funding Date or the Adjustment Date, as applicable, on or
prior to the Funding Date or the Adjustment Date, as applicable, Seller agrees
to deliver to Purchaser and upon request of Purchaser to record and file, at its
own expense, the following UCC financing statements and releases of registration
of charges (and/or amendments to previously filed UCC financing statements or
registration of charges), such filings to be made (unless otherwise requested by
the Purchaser) in each case only to the extent necessary (or, as requested by
the Purchaser, desirable) pursuant to applicable law to protect the ownership
interest of the Purchaser therein: (i) UCC financing statements (and releases of
Barbados registered charges) or documents of similar import, evidencing the
release of the security interest of each other Person with respect to any of the
Sold Assets; and (ii) UCC-1 financing statements, filed in the state of New
Jersey, naming the Seller as debtor with respect to any  chattel
paper  or  accounts  included in the Sold Assets. All UCC
financing statements and registration of charges required pursuant to this
 Section 2.03  shall meet the requirements of Applicable Law.   

All UCC financing statements and
registration of charges required pursuant to this  Section 2.03  shall meet the
requirements of Applicable Law.   

(b)      In connection with the sale of Sold Assets,
the Seller shall, at its own expense within ten (10) calendar days following the
Funding Date and the Adjustment Date, as applicable, cause its master accounting
and data processing records to be marked to indicate that all right, title and
interest in each Sold Asset has been sold to the Purchaser. In addition, the
Seller shall, within ten (10) calendar days following the Funding Date, cause
each Manager to designate each of the Sold Containers with a numeric code that
is unique to the Purchaser in their container management systems.   

(c)      In connection with the sale of Sold Assets
hereunder, the Seller shall, at its own expense, within ten (10) Business Days
following the Funding Date and the Adjustment Date, as applicable, record any
appropriate filings reflecting the sale and transfer of the Sold Assets in the
appropriate registries of foreign countries as may be required by the laws or
regulations of the country of registration of such Sold Assets (if any).

Section 2.04
 General Provisions Regarding All Sales of Containers .   

(a)      The Parent and the Seller shall be liable to
the Purchaser for all representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities
made by the Parent and the Seller pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, all
of which representations, warranties, covenants and indemnifications shall
survive the sale of such Sold Assets hereunder.   

(b)      Consistent with the Purchaser s ownership
of the Sold Assets, as between the parties to this Agreement, the Purchaser
shall have the sole right to service, administer and collect the Sold Assets and
to assign and/or delegate such right to others.   

(c)      If at any time, after the Seller is no longer
the submanager of the Sold Assets, Seller agrees that should it receive any
payment or any proceeds that are due to or for the account of the Purchaser, it
shall promptly (but in any event within five (5) Business Days after receipt and
identification thereof) forward such payments to the Purchaser or in accordance
with the Purchaser s instructions and until so forwarded, Seller shall hold
any such payment in trust for the Purchaser. The Purchaser agrees that should it
receive any payment or any proceeds that are due to or for the account of
Seller, the Purchaser shall promptly (but in any event within five (5) Business
Days after receipt and identification thereof) forward such payments to the
Seller or in accordance with the Seller s instructions and until so
forwarded, the Purchaser shall hold any such payment in trust for the Seller.

(d)      The Purchaser shall have the unrestricted
right to further assign, transfer, deliver, hypothecate, subdivide or otherwise
deal with the Sold Assets, and all of the Purchaser s right, title and
interest in, to and under this Agreement, on whatever terms the Purchaser shall
determine, pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise.   

(e)      The Seller agrees that it is shall be liable
for the removal of any Permitted Liens of the type identified in clause (i) and
(ii) of the definition of Permitted Lien to the extent that any such Permitted
Lien existed prior to the Funding Date or the Adjustment Date, as applicable.
The Seller shall take the necessary steps to remove any such Permitted Liens in
accordance with  Section 4.01(q)  hereof.   

Section 2.05
 Adjustment of Final Purchase Price .   

(a)      In the event that the number of CEUs of the
Sold Assets delivered on the Funding Date deviates from the Assumed Fleet Size,
the Seller and the Purchaser agree to adjust the Final Purchase Price based on
the CEU Price and/or to tender or return containers. Any such adjustment shall
be made on or about that day occurring forty-five (45) days after the Funding
Date, as agreed to by the Purchaser and the Seller (the    Adjustment
Date   ), using data accurate as of March 31, 2006.

(b)      To the extent that fewer CEUs are delivered on
the Funding Date than the Assumed Fleet Size, the Seller shall tender to the
Purchaser additional Containers selected from the Substitute Container List by
delivery of a Container Sale Certificate and satisfaction of the requirements
set forth in  Sections 2.02 ,  2.03  and  2.04  hereof. If the
delivery of additional Containers pursuant to this  Section 2.05(b)  does
not result in an Actual Fleet Size equal to the Assumed Fleet Size, the Seller
shall pay to the Purchaser, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to
the account identified by the Purchaser, an amount equal to the product of (A)
the excess of (x) the Assumed Fleet Size over (y) the Actual Fleet Size (taking
into account any adjustment made pursuant to this  Section 2.05(b) ), and
(B) the CEU Price (the    Downward Price Adjustment   ). Any
adjustment of the Final Purchase Price calculated pursuant to this  Section
2.05(b)  shall be made on or about the Adjustment Date, and any amounts
payable pursuant to this  Section 2.05(b)  shall be paid in full by wire
transfer of immediately payable funds to the account indicated in writing by the
payee to the payor.   

(c)      To the extent that more CEUs are delivered on
the Funding Date than the Assumed Fleet Size, the Purchaser shall return to the
Seller containers representing the number of CEUs equal to the excess of (i) the
Actual Fleet Size over (ii) the Assumed Fleet Size. Such return shall be
affected by delivery of a Container Sale Certificate executed by the Purchaser
for the benefit of the Seller. If for any reason the adjustment set forth in
this  Section 2.05(c)  does not result in a fleet of Sold Assets equal to
the Assumed Fleet Size, the Purchaser and the Seller agree to adjust the Final
Purchase Price. To the extent that the Actual Fleet Size is less than the
Assumed Fleet Size (taking into account any adjustment made pursuant to this
 Section 2.05(c) ), the Seller shall make a Downward Price Adjustment.

(d)      The Seller shall provide an update of the List
of Containers on or before May 15, 2006, which shall set forth a true, correct
and complete listing of the following information for each Sold Container as of
the Cut-Off Date: (i) Container Indentification Number,
(ii) description and type, (iii) acquisition date, (iv) if subject to
a Lease, the identity of the Lessee, the related Lease number and Lease type,
the per diem rental in effect at month end, the Lease start and expiry dates,
whether an option to purchase such Sold Container has been granted and amount
for which any such purchase option may be exercised, and whether the Sold
Container is covered by Damage Protection Plan coverage, and (v) if not subject
to a Lease, its location and repair status.   

(e)      In the event that the Funding Date does not
occur on or before March 20, 2006, the Purchaser shall pay to the Seller an
amount, in addition to the Final Purchase Price, equal to the product of (i) the
Final Purchase Price, (ii) 6.75% and (iii) a fraction, the numerator of which is
equal to (x) the actual number of days elapsed between March 20, 2006 and the
Funding Date and (y) the denominator of which is equal to 360. Any adjustment of
the Final Purchase Price calculated pursuant to this  Section 2.05(e) 
shall be made concurrently with the payment of the Final Purchase Price. Any
amounts payable pursuant to this  Section 2.05(e)  shall be paid in full by
making wire transfer of immediately payable funds in accordance with  Section
2.01(b) .   

ARTICLE III. 
 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES   

Section 3.01
 Representations and Warranties of the Parent and the Seller . 

The Parent and the
Seller jointly and severally make the following representations and warranties
for the benefit of the Purchaser, on which the Purchaser relies in accepting the
conveyance of the Sold Assets. Such representations and warranties are made by
the Parent and the Seller as of the Closing Date and as of the Funding Date
unless otherwise specified below, and the Parent and the Seller s
obligations with respect to such representations and warranties shall survive
the Closing Date and the Funding Date.   

(a)       Organization and Good Standing . The
Parent is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in compliance with
the laws of the State of Delaware, with corporate power and authority to own its
properties and to conduct its business as such properties are currently owned
and such business is currently conducted, had at all relevant times, and now
has, power, authority, and legal right to perform its obligations hereunder and
under any Related Document to which it is a party, and has had the same legal
name for the past five years. Seller is a corporation duly organized, validly
existing and in compliance with the laws of Barbados (which is its only
jurisdiction of organization), with corporate power and authority to own its
properties and to conduct its business as such properties are currently owned
and such business is currently conducted, had at all relevant times, and now
has, power, authority, and legal right to acquire and own the Sold Assets and to
perform its obligations hereunder and under any Related Document to which it is
a party, and has had the same legal name for the past five years or since its
formation (if it has been in existence for less than five years since the date
of its formation), and does not do business under any other name.   

(b)       Due Qualification . Each of the Parent
and the Seller is qualified as a foreign corporation in each jurisdiction and
has obtained all necessary licenses and approvals as required under Applicable
Law, in each case, where the failure to be so qualified, licensed or approved,
could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the ability of
such Person to perform its obligations under and comply with the terms of this
Agreement and any other Related Document.   

(c)       Power and Authority . Each of the Parent
and the Seller has the corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this
Agreement and any other Related Document to which it is a party and to carry out
their terms; each of the Parent and the Seller has duly authorized the sale to
the Purchaser of the Sold Assets by all necessary corporate and shareholder (if
necessary) action; the execution, delivery, and performance of this Agreement
and any other Related Document to which it is a party has been duly authorized
by the Parent and the Seller by all necessary corporate action and this
Agreement and any other Related Document to which it is a party have been duly
executed and delivered by the Parent and the Seller.   

(d)       Valid Assignment; Enforceable
Obligations . This Agreement constitutes a valid and absolute sale to the
Purchaser of all right, title, and interest of the Seller in, to and under the
Sold Assets and the Sold Assets will be held by the Purchaser free and clear of
any Lien of any Person claiming through or under the Seller, except for
Permitted Liens; and this Agreement and each other Related Document to which it
is a party, when duly executed and delivered by the other parties thereto, will
constitute a legal, valid, and binding obligation of the Parent and the Seller
enforceable against each such Person in accordance with its terms subject as to
enforceability to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium,
fraudulent conveyance or other laws affecting creditors  rights generally
and to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought
in a proceeding in equity or at law).   

(e)       No Violation . The consummation of the
transactions contemplated by and the fulfillment of the terms of this Agreement
and the Related Documents to which it is a party will not conflict with any of
the terms and provisions of, result in any breach of any of the terms and
provisions of, or constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time or both) a
default under, the memorandum of association and bye-laws and other
organizational documents of the Parent or the Seller, or any material term of
any indenture, agreement, mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument to which
the Parent or the Seller is a party or by which it is bound, or result in the
creation or imposition of any Lien upon any of its properties pursuant to the
terms of any such indenture, agreement, mortgage, deed of trust, or other
instrument, other than this Agreement or any Related Document, or violate any
law or any order, rule, or regulation applicable to the Parent or the Seller of
any court or of any federal or state regulatory body, administrative agency, or
other Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over Seller or any of its
properties, in each case to the extent that it could reasonably be expected to
have a material adverse effect.   

(f)       No Proceedings or Injunctions . There
are (i) no litigations, proceedings or investigations pending, or, to the
knowledge of the Parent or the Seller, threatened, before any court, regulatory
body, administrative agency, or other tribunal or Governmental Authority (A)
asserting the invalidity of this Agreement or any other Related Document to
which it is a party, (B) seeking to prevent the consummation of any of the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Related Document to
which it is a party, or (C) seeking any determination or ruling, in each case
that might materially and adversely affect the performance by the Parent or the
Seller of its obligations under, or the validity or enforceability of, this
Agreement or any other Related Document and (ii) no injunctions, writs,
restraining orders or other orders in effect against the Parent or the Seller
that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on its
ability to perform under this Agreement or any other Related Document.

(g)       Compliance with Law . Neither the Parent
or the Seller:   

(i)      is in violation of (A) any laws, ordinances,
governmental rules or regulations (including, without limitation, any tax laws
or regulations), or (B) court orders to which it is subject; 

(ii)     has failed to obtain any
licenses, permits, franchises or other governmental authorizations necessary to
the ownership of its property or to the conduct of its business including,
without limitation, with respect to transactions contemplated by this Agreement
and the other Related Documents to which it is a party; and 

(iii)     
is (after application of any cash proceeds received by it hereunder) in
violation in any respect of any term of any agreement, membership of
association, bye-law or other instrument to which it is a party or by which it
may be bound; 

in each case, which violation or
failure, individually or in the aggregate, could be reasonably be expected to materially
adversely affect: (1) its ability to perform its obligations under and comply with
the terms of this Agreement and any other Related Document, (2) its business or
condition (financial or otherwise), (3) any Lease included in the Sold Assets or the
enforceability thereof or (4) the interest of the Purchaser in any Sold Asset.   

(h)       Insolvency; Fraudulent Conveyance . The
Seller is paying its debts as they become due and is not  insolvent 
within the meaning of any applicable Insolvency Law in that:   

(i)     
both immediately before and after giving effect to the assignment, transfer and
sale of the Sold Assets, the present value of the Seller s assets will be
in excess of the amount that will be required to pay the Seller s probable
liabilities as they then exist and as they become absolute and matured; 

(ii)     
both immediately before and after giving effect to the assignment, transfer and
sale of the Sold Assets, the sum of the Seller s assets will be greater
than the sum of the Seller s liabilities, including contingent liabilities
(taking into account the probability that such contingent liabilities become
due), valuing the Seller s assets at a fair market value; 

(iii)     
the Seller does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur debts or
liabilities beyond its ability to pay as such debts mature; and 

(iv)     
giving effect to the initial sale hereunder, the Seller is not engaged in any
business or transaction, nor about to engage in a business or transaction, for
which its remaining property constitutes an unreasonably small capital. 

Each sale of Sold Assets has been made for reasonably equivalent value and not
made for, or on account of, an antecedent debt, and such sale is not voidable or
subject to avoidance under the provisions of any Insolvency Law.   

(i)       Principal Place of Business; Operations in
the United States; Trade Name . The registered office, principal place of
business and chief executive office of the Parent is at 211 College Road East,
Princeton, New Jersey 08540, the registered office of the Seller is at Stevmar
House, Suite 101, Rockley, Christ Church, Barbados, and the chief executive
office of the Seller is at 211 College Road East, Princeton, New Jersey 08540.
The Seller has not been known by any other name or trade within the last five
years.   

(j)       Accounting and Tax Treatment . The
Seller will treat the sale of the Sold Assets to the Purchaser pursuant to this
Agreement as a sale of such Sold Assets for financial reporting, accounting and
all income and sales tax purposes.   

(k)       Approvals . All approvals,
authorizations, consents, orders or other actions of any Person (including,
without limitation, any required under applicable exchange control regulations
to enable the Seller to punctually pay its  obligations hereunder in US
dollars) required to be obtained by the Parent and the Seller or, to the
knowledge of each such Person, by any other Person in connection with the
execution and delivery of this Agreement or any other Related Document to which
it is a party have been or will be taken or obtained on or prior to the Closing
Date.   

(l)       List of Containers . The List of
Containers accurately sets forth a true, correct and complete listing of the
following information for each Sold Container as of February 28,
2006:  (i) Container Indentification Number,
(ii) description and type, (iii) acquisition date, (iv) if subject to
a Lease, the identity of the Lessee, the related Lease number and Lease type,
the per diem rental in effect at month end, the Lease start and expiry dates,
whether an option to purchase such Sold Container has been granted and amount
for which any such purchase option may be exercised, and whether the Sold
Container is covered by Damage Protection Plan coverage, and (v) if not subject
to a Lease, its location and repair status.   

(m)       Parent Financial Statements .   The
Purchaser has been furnished with (i) the 2004 Form 10-K and the Parent s
consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2004, including its consolidated
statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for the fiscal year then
ended, and related footnotes, audited by KPMG LLP and (ii) the Form 10-Q of the
Parent and its consolidated subsidiaries as of, and for the nine months ended,
September 30, 2005. Such financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods specified and
present fairly the financial positions of the Parent and its Subsidiaries as of
such date and the results of their respective operations for the year then
ended.   

(n)       Governmental Consent . No consent,
approval or authorization of, or filing, registration or qualification with, any
Governmental Authority is or will be necessary or required on the part of the
Parent or the Seller in connection with the execution and delivery of this
Agreement or the sale and conveyance of the Sold Assets hereunder.   

(o)       Investment Company Act; Public Utilities
Holding Company Act . The Seller is not (i) an  investment company 
or a company controlled by an  investment company  within the meaning
of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or (ii) a  holding
company  or a  subsidiary company  or an  affiliate  of
a  holding company  within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935, as amended.   

(p)       Brokers or Finders . None of the Seller
nor any of its Affiliates has entered into any agreement or arrangement
entitling any agent, broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other firm
or Person to any broker s or finder s fee or any other commission or
similar fee in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, except those agents, brokers, investment bankers, financial advisors
or other firms or Persons, whose fees and expenses will be paid by the Seller or
an Affiliate of the Seller in accordance with the Seller s or such
Affiliate s agreement with such firm.   

(q)       ERISA Plan . The Seller has fully funded
any required contribution to any  employee pension benefit plans , if
any, as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA.   

(r)       Taxes . As of the Closing Date, the
Seller has filed, or has obtained an extension of time to file, returns for, and
paid in full, all material Taxes to the extent shown as due thereon. The Seller
has paid when due and payable all material Taxes on such returns and no Taxing
Authority has asserted, to its knowledge, any Lien against the Seller with
respect to the Sold Assets.   

(s)       Ordinary Course . The transactions
contemplated by this Agreement and the other Related Documents constitute a
practical and reasonable course of action by the Seller designed to improve the
financial position of the Seller, with no contemplation of insolvency and with
no intent to hinder, delay or defraud any of its present or future creditors. No
sale hereunder is being or made with any intent to evade any Applicable Law.

(t)       Bulk Transfer Act . No sale, transfer,
assignment or conveyance of the Sold Assets by the Seller to the Purchaser
contemplated by this Agreement will be subject to the bulk transfer, transfer
tax, or any similar statutory provisions in effect in any applicable
jurisdiction.   

(u)       Defaults . After giving effect to the
transactions entered into on the Closing Date, neither the Parent or the Seller
is in default with respect to (i) any recourse indebtedness or guarantees of
recourse indebtedness or (ii) any other contractual obligation that would have a
material adverse effect on the business or condition (financial or otherwise) of
such Person or on the ability of the Purchaser to enforce any assignment, sale,
transfer, conveyance or contribution hereunder.   

(v)       Title to Sold Containers; All Action
Taken . Immediately prior to the sale of the Sold Assets by the Seller to the
Purchaser pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (or concurrently with the sale
as agreed in advance between the Seller and Purchaser), the Seller shall have
good and marketable title to such Sold Assets. Upon the sale of the Sold Assets
to the Purchaser pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Purchaser will
have good and marketable title to such Sold Assets free and clear of all Liens
other than Permitted Liens. Immediately after the sales and conveyances to the
Purchaser as contemplated in this Agreement, all necessary action will have been
taken by the Seller to validly sell, assign, transfer, deliver and convey to the
Purchaser all right, title and interest of the Seller in and to the Sold
Containers and the other Related Assets.   

(w)       Specifications . The Sold Containers
were ordered pursuant to the standard specifications used by the Seller at the
time of order for containers purchased for its own account for that category of
container and, in addition, conformed to (i) the Customs Convention on
Containers, (ii) the International Convention for Safe Containers (CSC), and
(iii) the International Organization for Standardization.   

(x)       Casualty Loss . Each Lease included in
the Sold Assets requires that in the event of a Casualty Loss after the Closing
Date that the Lessee must take one of the following actions: (i) restore or
repair the affected Sold Container to good repair, condition and working order,
(ii) replace the Sold Container with a like container of the same or later model
in good repair, condition and working order, or (iii) pay the lessor thereunder
the casualty value of such Sold Container.   

(y)       No Violation of Leases . The sale and
conveyance to the Purchaser of the Sold Assets will not violate the terms or
provisions of any Lease included in the Sold Assets or any other agreement to
which the Seller then is a party or by which it is bound.   

(z)       Rights to Leases . The rights with
respect to each Lease included in the Sold Assets are assignable by the Seller
without the consent of any Person other than consents which will have been
obtained on or before the Funding Date.   

(aa)       Lessee Acceptance . With respect to
each Sold Container that is subject to a Lease on the Funding Date, the related
Lessee has received and taken possession of the Sold Container in satisfactory
condition and in proper working order as of the Funding Date and has had a
reasonable opportunity to inspect the Sold Container leased to it and has not
notified Seller of any defects therein.   

(bb)       Lease Files . Each Lease included in
the Sold Assets is stored in the Manager s (or applicable
Submanager s) offices at the address set forth in the Management Agreement
and are subject to its customary security and safekeeping procedures.

(cc)       Insurance . Each Lease included in the
Sold Assets requires the Lessee thereunder to insure each Sold Container against
all normally insurable risks (including, but not limited to, liability and loss
and damage) while the Sold Containers are under the control of such Person,
except in those cases where the Seller has permitted the Lessee to self-insure
such risk. All such insurance policies required to be maintained are in full
force and effect and are of a type customary for the Sold Container covered
thereby. Each such insurance policy is required to name the lessor under the
Lease as loss payee and as an additional insured.   

(dd)       Master Lease Arrangements . In the case
of each Lease included in the Sold Assets which consists of a master lease and
one or more exhibits or schedules thereto, (i) the Seller has not assigned,
and will not assign, such master lease to the extent it relates to Sold
Containers, and has delivered physical possession (or, if such physical copy is
not available, a photocopy) of such master lease to the Manager (or the
applicable Submanager) for safekeeping, and (ii) such exhibits or schedules each
constitute a separate contractual lease obligation of the related Lessee.

(ee)       Chattel Paper . Other than with respect
to (i) the CAI Leases, (ii) the Master Equipment Lease Agreement relating to the
CAI Leases, and (iii) any originally executed counterpart of each Lease in the
possession of the Lessee, all originally executed counterparts of each Lease
included in the Sold Assets are in the possession of the Manager (or the
applicable Submanager).   

(ff)       No Leases Intended as Security . No
Lease included in the Sold Assets sold on the Funding Date constitutes a Finance
Lease. No such Lease is a lease  intended as security  or is intended
to  create . . . a security interest  each as defined in Section
1-201(36) of the applicable UCC and the terms and conditions of each such Lease
are of such a nature that the Sold Container subject to such Lease would not be
considered property of the Lessee or its estate in the event of the insolvency
of the Lessee under any Federal or state applicable Insolvency Laws.   

(gg)       Container Type . Each Sold Container is
of a Permissible Container Type.   

(hh)       Lessees . No Lessee is a natural
person. No Lessee is an Affiliate of the Parent, the Seller or the Purchaser.

(ii)      [intentionally omitted]   

(jj)       Dollars . With respect to all Leases
included in the Sold Assets, all rental and other payments required to be paid
pursuant to the terms of each such Lease, are payable in Dollars.   

(kk)       Interpool s Continued Leasing
Activities . Immediately after giving effect to the sale of the Sold Assets
pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, Interpool (directly or through its
Affiliates) will remain in the business of leasing and managing Containers.

(ll)       Lease Agreement . Substantially all of
the Lease Agreements included in the Sold Assets include terms substantially
similar to the forms of leases heretofore provided by the Seller and attached
hereto as  Exhibits C-1 through C-5 .   

(mm)       OFAC . Other than pursuant to a license
issued by OFAC, no Sold Container is on lease, or sublease, to any Sanctioned
Person.   

(nn)       Bankrupt Lessees . No Sold Container is
under lease to a bankrupt lessee as of the Funding Date.   

(oo)       No Delinquencies . With respect to
Leases included in the Sold Assets, no more than $100,000 of unpaid lease
balances are more than 180 days delinquent.   

(pp)       Compliance with Law . The Leases
included in the Sold Assets complied in all material respects at the time they
were originated or made and as of the Funding Date comply in all material
respects with all legal requirements of the jurisdiction in which they were
originated and of the United States.   

(qq)       No Impairment . The Seller has duly
fulfilled all material obligations on its part to be fulfilled under or in
connection with each Lease included in the Sold Assets and has done nothing to
materially impair the rights of the Purchaser (including any beneficial
interest) in such Lease, the Sold Containers, the other Sold Assets or any
income or proceeds with respect thereto.   

(rr)       No Proceedings . No proceedings or
investigations are pending or, to the best of Seller s knowledge,
threatened, before any court, regulatory body, administrative agency or other
tribunal or governmental instrumentality asserting the invalidity of any Lease
included in the Sold Assets, or seeking to prevent payment and performance of
any such Lease, or seeking any determination or ruling that could reasonably be
expected to have a material adverse effect on the validity or enforceability of
any Sold Asset and to Seller s knowledge no Sold Asset is the subject of
litigation to which the Seller is a party.   

(ss)       Return of Sold Container . Each Lease
included in the Sold Assets provides for the return of the related Sold
Containers upon its termination and upon default by the associated Lessee
subject to Lessee s purchase option rights as set forth on the List of
Containers.   

(tt)       No Cash Deposits . No Lessee under a
Lease included in the Sold Assets has made a cash deposit to secure its
obligation to make future payments.   

(uu)       LIMITATION ON REPRESENTATIONS AND
WARRANTIES . EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SET FORTH HEREIN AND WITHOUT LIMITING THE
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES SET FORTH HEREIN, THE SELLER MAKES NO
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES AS TO THE SOLD ASSETS, WHICH ARE BEING SOLD TO
PURCHASER  AS IS,   WHERE IS  AND WITH ALL DEFECTS AT THE
FUNDING DATE. WITHOUT LIMITING ANY OTHER DISCLAIMERS OR LIMITATIONS HEREIN, THE
SELLER HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED REPRESENTATIONS
AND WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SOLD ASSETS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND ANY WARRANTIES ARISING OUT OF COURSE OF
PERFORMANCE, COURSE OF DEALING OR USAGE OF TRADE. WITHOUT LIMITING THE
GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, THE SELLER MAKE NO REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY TO
PURCHASER WITH RESPECT TO (A) ANY PROJECTIONS, ESTIMATES OR BUDGETS HERETOFORE
DELIVERED TO OR MADE AVAILABLE TO PURCHASER OF FUTURE REVENUES, EXPENSES OR
EXPENDITURES, FUTURE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (OR ANY COMPONENT THEREOF), FUTURE
CASH FLOWS OR FUTURE FINANCIAL CONDITION (OR ANY COMPONENT THEREOF) OF THE SOLD
ASSETS OR (B) ANY OTHER INFORMATION OR DOCUMENTS MADE AVAILABLE TO PURCHASER OR
ITS COUNSEL, ACCOUNTANTS, ADVISORS OR OTHER REPRESENTATIVES WITH RESPECT TO THE
SOLD ASSETS, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY COVERED BY A REPRESENTATION AND WARRANTY
CONTAINED IN SECTION 3.01(A) THROUGH (TT).   

Section
3.02  Representations and Warranties of the Purchaser .   

The
Purchaser hereby makes the following representations and warranties for the benefit of the
Parent and the Seller, on which the Parent and the Seller rely in selling the Sold Assets
to the Purchaser. Such representations and warranties speak as of the Closing Date and as
of the Funding Date and shall survive the Closing Date and the Funding Date.   

(a)       Organization and Good Standing .
Purchaser is a Swiss corporation with power and authority to own its properties
and to conduct its business as such properties are currently owned and such
business is currently conducted, had at all relevant times, and now has, power,
authority, and legal right to acquire and own the Sold Assets and to conduct its
business as contemplated herein and to perform its obligations hereunder, and
has had the same legal name since its formation and does not do business under
any other name.   

(b)       Due Qualification . The Purchaser is
duly qualified to do business, and has obtained all necessary licenses and
approvals in all jurisdictions in which the ownership or lease of property or
the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent
that the failure to be so qualified, licensed or approved would not, in the
aggregate, materially and adversely affect the ability of the Purchaser to
perform its obligations under and comply with the terms of this Agreement and
the Related Documents to which it is a party.   

(c)       Power and Authority . The Purchaser has
the power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and the Related
Documents to which it is a party and to carry out its terms; the Purchaser has
the power and authority to acquire, and will have acquired whatever right title
and interest in the Sold Assets as was conveyed to it by Seller; and the
Purchaser has duly authorized, executed and delivered this Agreement and the
Related Documents to which it is a party.   

(d)       Binding Obligations . This Agreement,
when duly executed and delivered by the other parties hereto or thereto, will
constitute a legal, valid, and binding obligation of the Purchaser enforceable
in accordance with its terms, subject as to enforceability to applicable
bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting
creditors  rights generally and to general principles of equity (regardless
of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law).

(e)       No Violation . The consummation of the
transactions contemplated by and the fulfillment of the terms of this Agreement
(after giving effect to the transactions set forth herein and in the Related
Documents) will not conflict with, result in any breach of any of the terms and
provisions of, or constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time) a default
under, the organizational documents of the Purchaser, or any term of any
indenture, agreement, mortgage, deed of trust or other instrument to which the
Purchaser is a party or by which its assets may be bound.   

(f)       No Proceedings or Injunctions . There
are (i) no proceedings or investigations to which the Purchaser, or any
Affiliate of the Purchaser, is a party pending, or, to the knowledge of
Purchaser, threatened, before any court, regulatory body, administrative agency
or other tribunal or Governmental Authority (A) asserting the invalidity of this
Agreement, (B) seeking to prevent the consummation of any of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, or (C) seeking any determination or ruling that
would materially and adversely affect the performance by the Purchaser of its
obligations under, or the validity or enforceability of this Agreement and (ii)
no injunctions, writs, restraining orders, or other orders in effect against the
Purchaser that would adversely affect its ability to perform under this
Agreement.   

(g)       Approvals . All approvals,
authorizations, consents, orders or other actions of any Person required to be
obtained by the Purchaser or, to the knowledge (without inquiry) of the
Purchaser, by any other party in connection with the execution and delivery of
this Agreement have been or will be taken or obtained on or prior to the Closing
Date.   

(h)       Ordinary Course . The transactions
contemplated by this Agreement are being consummated by the Purchaser with no
contemplation of insolvency and with no intent to hinder, delay or defraud any
of its present or future creditors.   

(i)       Compliance with Law . The Purchaser:

(i)     
is not in violation of (A) any laws, ordinances, governmental rules or
regulations (including, without limitation, any tax laws or regulations), or (B)
court orders to which it is subject;  

(ii)     
has not failed to obtain any licenses, permits, franchises or other governmental
authorizations necessary to the ownership of its property or to the conduct of
its business including, without limitation, with respect to transactions
contemplated by this Agreement and the other Related Documents to which it is a
party; and  

(iii)     
is not (after application of any cash proceeds received by it hereunder) in
violation in any respect of any term of any agreement, membership of
association, bye-law or other instrument to which it is a party or by which it
may be bound; 

in each case, which violation or
failure, individually or in the aggregate, could be reasonably be expected to materially
adversely affect: (1) its ability to perform its obligations under and comply with
the terms of this Agreement and any other Related Document, (2) its business or
condition (financial or otherwise), (3) any Lease included in the Sold Assets or the
enforceability thereof or (4) the interest of the Purchaser in any Sold Asset.   

(j)       Governmental Consent . Assuming the
accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Seller and the Parent set
forth in  Sections   3.01(n)  and  3.01(kk) , no consent,
approval or authorization of, or filing, registration or qualification with, any
Governmental Authority is or will be necessary or required on the part of the
Purchaser in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the
sale and conveyance of the Sold Assets hereunder.   

ARTICLE IV. 
 COVENANTS OF PARENT AND SELLERS   

Section 4.01  Seller Covenants .   

The Parent and the
Seller jointly and severally covenant and agree with the Purchaser that:

(a)       Financial Statements; Books and
Records . All financial statements of the Seller prepared after the Funding
Date shall disclose the effects of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement and the Related Documents.   

(b)       Compliance with Law . Insofar as they
relate to the Seller, the Seller will comply, in all material respects, with all
acts, rules, regulations, orders, decrees and directions of any Governmental
Authority applicable to the Sold Assets or any part thereof; provided, however,
that the Seller may contest any act, regulation, order, decree or direction in
any reasonable manner which shall not adversely affect the rights of the
Purchaser in the Sold Assets.   

(c)       Defend Title to Sold Assets . Except for
the sale contemplated hereby, the Seller will not sell, and will do nothing to
impair the rights of the Purchaser in, the Sold Assets or any interest therein.
The Seller shall defend the right, title, and interest of the Purchaser and its
successors and permitted assigns in, to, and under the Sold Assets, against all
claims of third parties claiming through or under the Seller.   

(d)       Notification of Breach . The Seller will
advise the Purchaser promptly, in reasonable detail, upon discovery of the
occurrence of any breach by the Seller of any of its representations, warranties
and/or covenants contained in any Related Document to which it is a party.

(e)       No Liens . Except for the sale
hereunder, the Seller will not pledge, assign or sell to any other Person or
grant, create, incur or assume any Lien, other than Permitted Liens of the type
identified in clauses (iii)-(v) of the definition of Permitted Liens, on any
Sold Assets.   

(f)       Notice of Liens . The Seller shall
notify the Purchaser promptly after becoming aware of any Lien created by the
Seller, other than Permitted Liens of the type identified in clauses (iii)-(v)
of the definition of Permitted Liens, on the Sold Assets.   

(g)      [intentionally omitted].   

(h)       ERISA . The Seller agrees to indemnify,
defend and hold the Purchaser and its successors and assigns harmless from and
against any and all loss, liability, damage, judgment, claim, deficiency, or
expense (including, without limitation, interest, penalties, reasonable
attorney s fees and costs and amounts paid in settlement) to which the
Purchaser and its successors and assigns may become subject insofar as such
loss, liability, damage, judgment, claim, deficiency, or expense arises out of
any employee benefit plan or compensation arrangement of Seller, if any (whether
or not within the meaning of Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended, or otherwise maintained by the Seller or to
which the Seller has liability).   

(i)       Ownership of Sold Assets . The Seller
agrees to take no action inconsistent with the ownership of the Sold Assets by
the Purchaser, to promptly indicate to all parties with a valid interest
inquiring as to the true ownership of the Sold Assets that the Sold Assets have
been sold to the Purchaser and to claim no ownership interest in the Sold
Assets.   

(j)       Communications . The Seller will reply
to all inquiries by third parties with respect to the ownership of the Sold
Assets by indicating that it has assigned, sold and transferred all of such Sold
Assets to the Purchaser.   

(k)       Marking of Records . The Seller shall
mark its master accounting and data processing records to evidence the sale of
the Sold Containers in the manner described in  Section 2.03(b)  hereof.

(l)       Accounting for Sales . The Parent shall
prepare its financial statements in accordance with GAAP. The Parent shall not
prepare any such financial statements that account for the transactions
contemplated in this Agreement in any manner other than as a sale of the Sold
Assets by the Seller to Purchaser, or in any other respect account for or treat
the transactions contemplated in this Agreement (including but not limited to
accounting) in any manner other than as a sale of the Sold Assets by the Seller
to the Purchaser.   

(m)       Provision of Information . From time to
time, and upon reasonable request of the Purchaser, the Seller shall provide the
Purchaser with all information reasonably requested by such Person in connection
with the transaction contemplated herein and in the Related Documents.

(n)       Taxes and Other Liabilities . The Seller
shall promptly pay and discharge any material sales taxes or value added taxes,
which could result in a Lien on the Sold Assets if not paid, when due and
payable by Seller in connection with the transactions contemplated hereunder
except (i) such as may be paid thereafter without penalty or (ii) such
as may be contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which an
adequate reserve has been established and is maintained in accordance with GAAP;
provided that enforcement of the taxes referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above
that are being contested have been stayed during the pendency of each related
Proceeding. The Seller shall promptly notify the Purchaser of any material
challenge, contest or Proceeding pending by or against Seller before any Taxing
Authority which relates to the Sold Assets for the period prior to the Funding
Date.   

(o)      [intentionally omitted].   

(p)       No Alternative Transactions . From the
date of this Agreement until the Funding Date or, if earlier, such time as this
Agreement may be terminated pursuant to  Article VI  hereof, the Parent and
the Seller agree that none of the Parent, the Seller, any Affiliate of the
Seller or the Parent, or any of their respective representatives, will, directly
or indirectly, encourage any offers from, solicit, encourage, initiate, respond
to (other than by a bare statement, without further detail or explanation, that
they are not permitted to respond) or continue with any discussions or
negotiations with, or provide any information to, or enter into any agreements
or understandings with, any Person, other than the Purchaser and the
Purchaser s representatives, concerning any sale or other transfer of any
of the Sold Assets.   

(q)       Removal of Certain Permitted Liens Existing
As of the Funding Date . The Seller agrees that it shall take any action
necessary to remove any Permitted Liens of the type identified in clause (i) and
(ii) of the definition of Permitted Liens that existed on the Funding Date on or
before the Adjustment Date, to the extent that any amounts owing with respect to
such Permitted Liens are due and owing on or before such date. To the extent
that any such Permitted Liens remain after the Adjustment Date because any such
amounts were not due and owing before such date, the Seller agrees that it shall
take the action necessary to remove any such Permitted Liens remaining within
ten (10) Business Days from the date that such amounts become due and payable.

ARTICLE V. 
 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT   

Section 5.01
 Conditions to Purchaser s Obligations .   

The obligations of
the Purchaser to acquire Sold Assets on the Funding Date shall be subject to the
satisfaction (or waiver thereof by the Purchaser) of the following conditions:

(a)      All representations and warranties of all of
the Parent and the Seller contained in this Agreement shall be true and correct
on the Funding Date (unless such representation or warranty is specifically
limited to an earlier date) with the same effect as though such representations
and warranties had been made on such date (except to the extent of changes
resulting from transactions contemplated or permitted by this Agreement and
changes occurring in the ordinary course of business which singly or in the
aggregate shall not have a materially adverse effect on the financial condition
of the Parent and except to the extent that such representations and warranties
relate expressly to an earlier date);   

(b)      The Container Representations and Warranties
shall be true and correct in all material respects;   

(c)      The Parent and the Seller shall have performed
all other obligations required to be performed by the provisions of this
Agreement and the other Related Documents to which it is a party (except to the
extent the failure of the Parent or the Seller to perform such obligations
singly or in the aggregate shall not have a materially adverse effect on the
ability of the Seller and the Parent to perform their obligations under this
Agreement);   

(d)      All conditions precedent to the lender s
obligations to make the loan under the Fortis Financing shall have been
satisfied, other than any condition precedent concerning the making of equity
contributions by Purchaser to PRB Limited; provided, that, any failure to
satisfy this  Section 5.01(d)  shall not result from the failure of the
Purchaser or PRB Limited to use their commercially reasonable efforts to satisfy
those conditions precedent;   

(e)      All corporate and legal proceedings and all
instruments in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Purchaser, and the
Purchaser shall have received from the Seller and the Parent copies of all
documents (including, without limitation, records of corporate proceedings)
relevant to the transactions herein contemplated as the Purchaser may reasonably
have requested (except to the extent the failure of the Parent or the Seller to
deliver such documentation singly or in the aggregate shall not have a
materially adverse effect on the ability of the Seller and the Parent to perform
their obligations under this Agreement);   

(f)      Each of the Related Documents shall have been
duly and properly authorized, executed and delivered by the respective parties
thereto and shall be in full force and effect on and as of the Funding Date.
Executed original counterparts of each of the Related Documents, as executed and
delivered by the respective parties thereto, shall have been delivered to the
Purchaser;   

(g)      The Seller shall deliver to the Purchaser wire
transfer instructions in reasonable detail with respect to the payment of the
Final Purchase Price substantially as set forth in  Schedule 2 
attached hereto (or as otherwise instructed by the Seller; and   

(h)      No later than the Funding Date, the Purchaser
shall have received legal opinions from counsel to the Parent and the Seller, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Purchaser and its counsel, which opinions
may be from in-house counsel.   

Section 5.02
 Conditions to the Seller s Obligations .   

The obligations of
the Seller to convey and contribute the Sold Assets on the Funding Date shall be
subject to the satisfaction (or waiver thereof by Seller) of the following
conditions:   

(a)      All representations and warranties of the
Purchaser contained in this Agreement shall be true and correct with the same
effect as though such representations and warranties had been made on such date;

(b)      All corporate and legal proceedings and all
instruments in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Seller, and the Seller shall
have received from the Purchaser copies of all documents (including without
limitation records of corporate proceedings) relevant to the transactions herein
contemplated as the Seller may reasonably have requested;   

(c)      Each of the Related Documents shall have been
duly and properly authorized, executed and delivered by the respective parties
thereto and shall be in full force and effect on and as of the Funding Date.
Executed original counterparts of each of the Related Documents, as executed and
delivered by the respective parties thereto, shall have been delivered to the
Seller;   

(d)      The Seller s receipt of the Net Final
Purchase Price; and   

(e)      No later than the Funding Date, the Seller
shall have received legal opinions from counsel to the Purchaser, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Seller and its counsel.   

Notwithstanding the foregoing
conditions precedent, upon the making of (or purporting to make) a sale of Sold Assets
hereunder, and the Seller s acceptance of the Final Purchase Price, all of the
Seller s rights under this Agreement (and by operation of law) shall vest in the
Seller, whether or not the conditions precedent to such sale were in fact satisfied.   

ARTICLE VI. 
 TERMINATION   

Section 6.01
 Termination .   

This Agreement may
be terminated and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement may be
abandoned at any time after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Funding
Date:   

(a)      by the Purchaser if the Purchaser is unable,
despite its commercially reasonable efforts to satisfy the conditions precedent
to the Fortis Financing that are within the Purchaser s control, to secure
the Fortis Financing prior to the Funding Date; or   

(b)      by any of the Purchaser, Seller or Parent if
(i) a law shall have been enacted, entered or promulgated prohibiting the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or (ii) a judgment
shall have been entered permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise
prohibiting the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, and such
judgment shall have become final and non-appealable and the party seeking to
terminate this Agreement pursuant to this  Section 6.01(b)(ii)  shall have
used its best efforts to remove such judgment; and   

(c)      by any of Purchaser, Seller or Parent upon a
material breach by any other party of any of its obligations under this
Agreement, which breach has not been cured within 7 days after notice thereof
has been provided to such other party;  provided  that there shall be no
right to terminate if such breach was caused, in whole or in part, by a material
breach by the party seeking to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this
 Section 6.01(c) .   

Section 6.02  Effect
of Termination; Liquidated Damages .   

(a)      If this Agreement is terminated as permitted
under  Section 6.01 , such termination shall be without liability to any
party or their respective Affiliates or representatives, and following such
termination neither party shall have any liability under this Agreement or
relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;  provided 
that no such termination shall relieve any party that has willfully breached any
provision of this Agreement from liability for such breach, and any such
breaching party shall remain fully liable for any and all damages incurred or
suffered by the other parties as a result of such breach.   

(b)      In the event that (x) the conditions to the
obligations of the Purchaser to consummate the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement pursuant to  Section 5.01  have all been satisfied and (y) none
of the events described in  Section 6.01  which would give the Purchaser a
right to terminate this Agreement have occurred and any applicable cure period
has expired and (z) the Purchaser refuses to consummate the Funding, the Seller
shall, in lieu of any other damages or remedy for such breach or breaches that
may be available to the Seller or the Parent (which the Seller and the Parent
shall be deemed to have irrevocably waived upon the Seller s receipt of the
liquidated damages amount specified below) and in satisfaction of all claims the
Seller and/or the Parent may have arising under or relating to this Agreement of
any nature whatsoever, be entitled to liquidated damages in the amount of
$10,000,000. In the event that (x) the conditions to the obligations of the
Seller to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement pursuant to
 Section 5.01  have all been satisfied and (y) none of the events described
in  Section 6.01  which would give the Seller a right to terminate this
Agreement have occurred and any applicable cure period has expired and (z) the
Seller refuses to consummate the Funding, the Purchaser shall, in lieu of any
other damages or remedy for such breach or breaches that may be available to the
Purchaser (which the Purchaser shall be deemed to have irrevocably waived upon
the Purchaser s receipt of the liquidated damages amount specified below)
and in satisfaction of all claims the Purchaser may have arising under or
relating to this Agreement of any nature whatsoever, be entitled to liquidated
damages in the amount of $10,000,000. THE PARTIES HERETO AGREE THAT IT WOULD BE
IMPRACTICABLE AND EXTREMELY DIFFICULT TO ASCERTAIN THE ACTUAL DAMAGES SUFFERED
AS A RESULT OF THE OTHER PARTY OR PARTIES  FAILURE TO COMPLETE THE PURCHASE
AND SALE CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT, AND THAT UNDER THE CIRCUMSTANCES
EXISTING AS OF THE DATE OF THIS AGREEMENT, THE LIQUIDATED DAMAGES PROVIDED FOR
IN THIS SECTION REPRESENTS A REASONABLE ESTIMATE OF THE DAMAGES WHICH THE
RESPECTIVE PARTIES HERETO WILL INCUR AS A RESULT OF SUCH FAILURE. THE PARTIES
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE PAYMENT OF SUCH LIQUIDATED DAMAGES IS NOT INTENDED AS A
FORFEITURE OR PENALTY, BUT IS INTENDED TO CONSTITUTE LIQUIDATED DAMAGES.

(c)     (i)     The Purchaser
agrees that on the Closing Date (or, in any event, within one (1) Business Day
thereof), it shall pay in escrow to the Escrow Agent, for the benefit of the
Seller, a security deposit of $10,000,000 to secure the payment of liquidated
damages pursuant to  Section 6.02(b)  (the   Purchaser
Deposit  ). In the event the Seller is entitled to liquidated damages as
set forth in  Section 6.02(b) , the Purchaser Deposit shall be paid to the
Seller, which amount shall be in satisfaction of the liquidated damages due to
the Seller in accordance with the provisions of  Section 6.02(b) . In the
event the Sale Agreement is terminated as a result of (A) the occurrence of the
events described in
 Section 6.01 , or (B) the failure of either of the Purchaser or the Seller
to meet the conditions of  Sections   5.01  and  5.02 , as
applicable, the Purchaser Deposit shall be returned to the Purchaser. To the
extent the Purchaser pays the Net Final Purchase Price on the Funding Date, the
Purchaser Deposit shall be paid to the Seller.   

(ii)     
The Seller agrees that on the Closing Date (or, in any event, within one (1)
Business Day thereof), it shall pay in escrow to the Escrow Agent, for the
benefit of the Purchaser, a deposit of $10,000,000 to secure the payment of
liquidated damages pursuant to  Section 6.02(b)  (the   Seller
Deposit  ). In the event the Purchaser is entitled to liquidated damages
as set forth in  Section 6.02(b) , the Seller Deposit shall be paid to the
Purchaser, which amount shall be in satisfaction of the liquidated damages due
to the Purchaser in accordance with the provisions of  Section 6.02(b) . In
the event the Sale Agreement is terminated as a result of (A) the occurrence of
the events described in  Section 6.01 , or (B) the failure of either of the
Purchaser or the Seller to meet the conditions of  Sections   5.01 
and  5.02 , as applicable, the Seller Deposit shall be returned to the
Seller. To the extent the Purchaser pays the Net Final Purchase Price on the
Funding Date, the Seller Deposit shall be returned to the Seller.   

(iii)      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this  Section 6.02(c) , the Seller and the Purchaser agree
that all amounts distributed pursuant to this  Section 6.02(c)  shall be
distributed in accordance with the terms of the Escrow Letter.   

ARTICLE VII. 
 INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENTS   

Section 7.01  By the
Seller .   

(a)      Subject to subsections (b) and (c) of this
 Section 7.01 , Parent and Seller shall, jointly and severally,
indemnify and hold harmless Purchaser, its Affiliates, officers, directors,
employees, agents, successors, and assigns and related entities from, and
reimburse them for any, loss, cost deficiency, demand, assessment, expense
(including all reasonable legal and expert fees and expenses), damage (including
damages to Persons, property or the environment), liability, fines, penalties or
claims but not including consequential, punitive or special damages
(collectively, the   Indemnified Costs  ) arising out of or
resulting from:   

(i)     
(a) any breach of any representation or warranty made by Parent or Seller in
this Agreement other than those set forth in  Sections 3.01(d)  and
 3.01(v) ; and (b) any Parent s or Seller s breach of or failure
to perform any of its covenants or agreements contained in or made pursuant to
this Agreement other than those set forth in  Section 4.01(c) ; 

(ii)     
the ownership, possession, control, use, maintenance, leasing or operation of
the Sold Assets or the financing, sale, transfer or assignment of the Sold
Assets, in each case prior to the Funding Date; 

(iii)     
any failure to comply with the terms and conditions of any applicable bulk sales
or bulk transfer or similar laws that may be applicable to the bulk sale or bulk
transfer of the Sold Assets; 

(iv)     
any Liens accruing prior to the Funding Date of the type described in clauses
(i) and (ii) of the definition of Permitted Lien herein; and  

(b)      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Seller
shall have no liability:   

(i)     
to the extent of any insurance or other recovery received by a Person entitled
to indemnification under  Section 7.01(a)  in respect of an
Indemnified Cost (an   Offsetting Recovery  ) (provided that the
net present value of all actual increases (in the following year) in insurance
premiums which are directly attributable to any such Indemnified Cost (the
  Premium Recapture  ) is deducted from any such Offsetting
Recovery for purposes of this  Section 7.01(b)(i) , provided further,
however, that the Premium Recapture shall not exceed the amount of the
Offsetting Recovery); and 

(ii)     
to the extent that Purchaser or any Affiliate thereof realizes a Tax Benefit on
or before the fourth anniversary of the Closing Date which is directly
attributable to such Indemnified Cost. 

(c)      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Seller
shall have no liability for indemnification pursuant to
 Section 7.01(a)(i)  or  (ii)  unless the aggregate of all
Indemnified Costs under  Section 7.01(a)(i)  or  (ii)  for which
the Seller would, but for this subsection (c), be liable exceeds on a cumulative
basis an amount equal to one million Dollars ($1,000,000), in which case the
Seller s liability shall be only for such excess, nor shall the Seller be
liable for any such Indemnified Costs that, when added to the amounts that
Seller has otherwise paid pursuant to  Section 7.01(a)(i)  or
 (ii) , exceed the amount of seventy-five million Dollars ($75,000,000).
The Seller shall not be liable to pay Indemnified Costs more than once with
respect to an Indemnified Cost resulting from the same facts, events or
circumstances, even if such facts, events or circumstances constitute a breach
of any representations and warranties for which Seller shall or would but for
this provision be obligated to pay Indemnified Costs hereunder, provided,
however, the Seller shall be liable to pay for Indemnified Costs that arise out
of the same facts, events or circumstances when the Indemnified Costs resulting
from such facts, events or circumstances that are not duplicative or result in
damages, costs or liabilities that were not indemnified pursuant to the first
such indemnification payment.   

Section 7.02  By Purchaser .   

(a)      Subject to subsections (b) and (c) of this
 Section 7.02 , Purchaser shall indemnify and hold Parent, the Seller,
and their Affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, successors, and
assigns, and related entities from, and reimburse them for, Indemnified Costs
arising or resulting from:   

(i)     
any breach of any representation or warranty made by Purchaser in this
Agreement; 

(ii)     
Purchaser s breach of or failure to perform any of its covenants or
agreements contained in or made pursuant to this Agreement (except to the extent
clauses (iii) or (iv) shall apply); 

(iii)     
any loss, cost, demand, assessment, expense, damage, liability, fine, penalty or
claim relating to the Sold Assets and accruing on or after the Funding Date; 

(iv)     
the ownership, possession, control, use, maintenance, leasing or operation of
the Sold Assets or the financing, sale, transfer or assignment of the Sold
Assets, in each case from and after the Funding Date, including any liability
arising under Tax, securities or other Applicable Laws in connection with the
ownership, possession, control, use, maintenance, leasing, operation, financing,
sale, transfer or assignment of the Sold Assets. 

(b)      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Purchaser
shall have no liability to the extent that the Parent, the Seller or any
Affiliate thereof realizes a Tax Benefit which is directly attributable to such
Indemnified Cost on or before the fourth anniversary of the Funding Date or
receives insurance or other recovery in respect of an Indemnified Cost. In
addition, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Purchaser shall have no liability
to the extent that any Indemnified Cost is caused by or arises from any
non-compliance with or breach of any covenant or agreement of Parent, Seller or
any Affiliate thereof (including CAI) contained in the Management Agreement.

(c)      Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser shall
have no liability for indemnification pursuant to
 Section 7.02(a)(i)  or  (ii)  unless the aggregate of all
Indemnified Costs under  Section 7.02(a)(i)  or  (ii)  for which
Purchaser would, but for this subsection (c), be liable exceeds on a cumulative
basis an amount equal to one million Dollars ($1,000,000), in which case
Purchaser s liability shall be only for such excess, nor shall Purchaser be
liable for any such Indemnified Costs that, when added to the amounts that
Purchaser has otherwise paid pursuant to  Section 7.02(a)(i)  or
 (ii) , exceed the amount of seventy-five million Dollars ($75,000,000).
Purchaser shall not be liable to pay Indemnified Costs more than once with
respect to an Indemnified Cost resulting from the same facts, events or
circumstances, even if such facts, events or circumstances constitute both an
Assumed Liability and a breach of any representations and warranties for which
Purchaser shall or would but for this provision be obligated to pay Indemnified
Costs hereunder, provided, however, Purchaser shall be liable to pay for
Indemnified Costs that arise out of the same facts, events or circumstances when
the Indemnified Costs resulting from such facts, events or circumstances that
are not duplicative or result in damages, costs or liabilities that were not
indemnified pursuant to the first such indemnification payment.   

Section
7.03  Indemnification Procedure .   

(a)      Any Person claiming indemnification pursuant
to this Agreement shall promptly notify the indemnifying party in writing of the
occurrence of any event that such party asserts is or may be an indemnifiable
event pursuant to this Agreement and shall describe in reasonable detail the
facts, events and circumstances relating to the subject matter of such claim and
the amount (if reasonably calculable) of the Indemnified Costs in connection
therewith. If such event involves the claim of any third party, the indemnifying
party shall be entitled to participate in and, to the extent it shall wish,
assume control over (in which case the indemnifying party shall assume all
expense with respect to) the defense, settlement, adjustment or compromise of
such claim.   

(b)      The indemnified party shall have the right to
employ separate counsel in any action or claim and to participate in the defense
thereof at the expense of the indemnifying party only (i) if the retention of
such counsel has been specifically authorized by the indemnifying party or (ii)
if the counsel is retained because the indemnifying party does not notify the
indemnified party within 60 days after receipt of a claim notice that it elects
to undertake the defense thereof.   

(c)      The indemnifying party shall obtain the prior
written approval of the indemnified party before entering into any settlement,
adjustment, or compromise of such claim or ceasing to defend against such claim
that provides for any relief other than the payment of monetary damages with
respect to the indemnified party.   

(d)      If the indemnifying party does not assume
control over the defense of such claim as provided in
 Section 7.03(a)  within 60 days of receipt of notice thereof, the
indemnified party shall have the right to defend the claim in such manner as it
may deem appropriate and to settle, adjust, or compromise such claim and shall
not thereby waive any right to indemnification hereunder.   

(e)      In the event that the indemnifying party
reimburses the indemnified party for any third party claim, the indemnified
party shall remit to the indemnifying party any reimbursement that the
indemnified party subsequently receives for such third party claim.   

(f)      Any matter as to which a claim has been
asserted by written notice in accordance with  Section 7.03(a)  to the
indemnifying party that is pending or unresolved at the end of any applicable
survival period shall continue, to the extent permitted by law, to be covered by
this  Article VII  notwithstanding any applicable statute of
limitations (which the parties hereby toll with respect to each other) or the
expiration of such survival period until such matter is finally terminated or
otherwise resolved by the parties under this Agreement or by a court of
competent jurisdiction and any amounts payable hereunder are finally determined
and paid.   

(g)      The right to indemnification pursuant to this
 Section 7.03  shall not be affected by any investigation conducted
with respect to, or any knowledge acquired (or capable of being acquired) at any
time, whether before or after the execution and delivery of this Agreement or
the Funding Date, with respect to the accuracy or inaccuracy of or compliance
with, any representation, warranty, covenant or obligation.   

Section
7.04  Indemnification Period .   

Notwithstanding
anything else contained herein to the contrary, no claim for indemnification
hereunder may be presented by any party hereto after the third anniversary of
the Funding Date except that there is no time limitation with respect to claims
by Purchaser for indemnification under  Section 7.01(a)(v) .

Section 7.05
 Exclusivity .   

The indemnification
provided in this  Article VII  shall be the exclusive remedy for a
breach of any representation or warranty in this Agreement provided that no
party hereto shall be deemed to have waived any right of recourse (whether a
claim under this
 Article VII  or otherwise) arising from fraudulent conduct of any other party
hereto.   

ARTICLE VIII. 
 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS   

Section 8.01
 Amendment .   

This
Agreement may be amended in writing from time to time by the Parent, the Seller and the
Purchaser.   

Section 8.02
 GOVERNING LAW .   

THIS AGREEMENT
SHALL BE CONSTRUED BY AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW SECTIONS 5-1401 AND
5-1402, BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF
LAW AND THE RIGHTS, OBLIGATIONS AND REMEDIES OF THE PARTIES HERETO SHALL BE
DETERMINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.   

Section 8.03
 CONSENT TO JURISDICTION .   

ANY LEGAL SUIT,
ACTION OR PROCEEDING AGAINST ANY OF THE SELLER, THE PARENT OR THE PURCHASER
ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, OR ANY TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED
HEREBY, MAY, AT THE OPTION OF THE PURCHASER, BE INSTITUTED IN ANY FEDERAL OR
STATE COURT IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND EACH OF THE SELLER, THE PARENT OR THE
PURCHASER HEREBY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE
LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING, AND, SOLELY FOR THE
PURPOSES OF ENFORCING THIS AGREEMENT, EACH OF THE SELLER, THE PARENT OR THE
PURCHASER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE JURISDICTION OF ANY SUCH COURT IN
ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING. THE SELLER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY APPOINTS AND
DESIGNATES INTERPOOL, INC., HAVING AN ADDRESS AT 633 THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK, NEW
YORK 10017, AS ITS TRUE AND LAWFUL ATTORNEY-IN-FACT AND DULY AUTHORIZED AGENT
FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF ACCEPTING SERVICE OF LEGAL PROCESS AND THE SELLER
AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON SUCH PARTY SHALL CONSTITUTE PERSONAL SERVICE
OF SUCH PROCESS ON SUCH PERSON. THE PURCHASER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY APPOINTS AND
DESIGNATES CT CORPORATION SYSTEM HAVING AN ADDRESS AT 111 EIGHTH AVENUE, NEW
YORK, NEW YORK 10011, AS ITS TRUE AND LAWFUL ATTORNEY-IN-FACT AND DULY
AUTHORIZED AGENT FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF ACCEPTING SERVICE OF LEGAL PROCESS
AND THE PURCHASER AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON SUCH PARTY SHALL
CONSTITUTE PERSONAL SERVICE OF SUCH PROCESS ON SUCH PERSON. EACH OF THE SELLER
AND THE PURCHASER SHALL MAINTAIN THE DESIGNATION AND APPOINTMENT OF SUCH
AUTHORIZED AGENT UNTIL ALL AMOUNTS PAYABLE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT SHALL HAVE BEEN
PAID IN FULL IN IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE FUNDS. IF SUCH AGENT SHALL CEASE TO SO
ACT, EACH OF THE SELLER OR THE PURCHASER, AS THE CASE MAY BE, SHALL IMMEDIATELY
DESIGNATE AND APPOINT ANOTHER SUCH AGENT SATISFACTORY TO THE OTHER PARTY AND
SHALL PROMPTLY DELIVER TO SUCH OTHER PARTY EVIDENCE IN WRITING OF SUCH OTHER
AGENT S ACCEPTANCE OF SUCH APPOINTMENT.   

Section 8.04
 JURISDICTION .    

(a)
     FORUM CONVENIENCE AND ENFORCEMENT ABROAD   

EACH OF THE PARTIES
HERETO:   

(i)     WAIVES OBJECTION TO THE COURTS OF NEW YORK ON
GROUNDS OF INCONVENIENT FORUM OR OTHERWISE AS REGARDS PROCEEDINGS IN CONNECTION
WITH THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER RELATED DOCUMENTS AND

(ii)     AGREES THAT A JUDGMENT OR ORDER OF A COURT OF
NEW YORK IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER RELATED DOCUMENTS IS
CONCLUSIVE AND BINDING ON IT AND MAY BE ENFORCED AGAINST IT IN THE COURTS OF ANY
OTHER JURISDICTION.

(b)
     NON-EXCLUSIVITY   

NOTHING IN THIS  SECTION 8.04  LIMITS THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO
BRING PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ANY OF THE PARTIES HERETO IN CONNECTION WITH THIS
AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER RELATED DOCUMENTS:

(i)     IN ANY OTHER COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION; OR

(ii)     CONCURRENTLY IN MORE THAN ONE JURISDICTION.

Section 8.05
 Judgment Currency .    

Dollars shall be the
currency of account in the case of all obligations under this Agreement and the
Related Documents. The payment obligations under the Related Documents shall not
be discharged by an amount paid in a currency, or in a place other than that
specified with respect to such obligations, whether pursuant to a judgment or
otherwise, to the extent that the amount so paid on prompt conversion to Dollars
and transfer to the specified place of payment under normal banking procedures
does not yield the amount of Dollars, in such place, due under the governing
Related Documents. In the event that any payment, whether pursuant to a judgment
or otherwise, upon conversion and transfer does not result in payment of such
amount of Dollars in the specified place of payment, the obligee of such payment
shall have a separate cause of action against the party making the same for the
additional amount necessary to yield the amount due and owing under such Related
Documents. If, for the purpose of obtaining a judgment in any court with respect
to any obligation of a party under any of the Related Documents or any of the
agreements contemplated thereby, it shall be necessary to convert to any other
currency any amount in Dollars due thereunder and a change shall occur between
the rate of exchange applied in making such conversion and the rate of exchange
prevailing on the date of payment of such judgment, the respective judgment
debtor agrees to pay such additional amounts (if any) as may be necessary to
insure that the amount paid on the date of payment is the amount in such other
currency which, when converted into Dollars and transferred to New York, New
York, in accordance with normal banking procedures will result in the amount
then due under the respective Related Document in Dollars. Any amount due from
the respective judgment debtor shall be due as a separate debt and shall not be
affected by or merged into any judgment being obtained for any other sum due
under or in respect of any Related Document. In no event, however, shall the
respective judgment debtor be required to pay a larger amount in such other
currency, at the rate of exchange in effect on the date of payment than the
amount of Dollars stated to be due under the respective Related Document, so
that in any event the obligations of the respective judgment debtor under the
Related Document will be effectively maintained as Dollar obligations.

Section 8.06
 Notices .    

All demands,
notices, and communications under this Agreement shall be in writing personally
delivered, or sent by facsimile (with subsequent telephone confirmation of
receipt thereof) or sent by overnight courier service, at the following address:
(a) if to the Parent or the Seller, at 211 College Road East, Princeton, New
Jersey 08540, or by fax to 609-452-8211, Attention: Chief Financial Officer; and
(b) if to the Purchaser, at Industriestrasse 6, 6301 Zug, Switzerland, or by fax
to 011-41-41-710-9383, Attention: Heinz Roth with a copy to Hakman Capital
Corporation, 1350 Bayshore Highway, Suite 700, Burlingame, California 94010, or
by fax to 650-348-6872, Attention: J. David Hakman. Notice shall be effective
and deemed received (i) upon receipt, if sent by courier, (ii) upon receipt of
confirmation of transmission, if sent by facsimile or telecopy, or (iii) when
delivered, if delivered by hand. Either party may alter the address to which
communications are to be sent by giving notice of such change of address in
conformity with the provisions of this  Section 8.06  for giving notice and
by otherwise complying with any applicable terms of this Agreement.   

Section 8.07
Severability of Provisions.    

If any one or more
of the covenants, agreements, provisions, or terms of this Agreement shall be
for any reason whatsoever held invalid, then such covenants, agreements,
provisions, or terms shall be deemed severable from the remaining covenants,
agreements, provisions, or terms of this Agreement and shall in no way affect
the validity or enforceability of the other provisions of this Agreement.

Section 8.08
 Assignment .    

This Agreement may
not be assigned by the Parent or any Seller without the prior written consent of
the Purchaser. This Agreement may not be assigned by the Purchaser without the
prior written consent of the Seller; provided, that the Purchaser may charge,
assign, pledge or hypothecate all or a portion of its rights under this
Agreement to its Affiliates, their lenders and/or their agents (provided that no
such assignment shall release the Purchaser from its obligations hereunder).

Section 8.09
 Further Assurances .    

Each party hereto
agrees to do such further acts and things and to execute and deliver the
additional assignments, agreements, powers and instruments as are reasonably
required to carry into effect the purposes of this Agreement or to better assure
and confirm unto the such other parties its rights, powers and remedies
hereunder.   

Section 8.10
 No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies .    

No failure to
exercise and no delay in exercising, on the part of the Purchaser, the Parent or
any Seller, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder, shall operate as a
waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy,
power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise hereof or
the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights,
remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not
exhaustive of any rights, remedies, powers and privilege provided by law.

Section 8.11
 Counterparts .    

This Agreement may
be executed in two or more counterparts (and by different parties on separate
counterparts), each of which shall be an original, but all of which shall
constitute one and the same instrument.   

Section 8.12
 Binding .    

This Agreement will
inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their
respective successors and permitted assigns.   

Section 8.13
 Merger and Integration .    

Except as
specifically stated otherwise herein, this Agreement sets forth the entire
understanding of the parties relating to the subject matter hereof, and all
prior understandings, written or oral, are superseded by this Agreement. This
Agreement may not be modified, amended, waived or supplemented except as
provided herein.   

Section 8.14
 Headings .    

The headings herein
are for purposes of reference only and shall not otherwise affect the meaning or
interpretation of any provision hereof.   

Section 8.15
 Schedules and Exhibits .    

The schedules and
exhibits attached hereto and referred to herein shall constitute a part of this
Agreement and are incorporated into this Agreement for all purposes.   

Section 8.16
 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL .    

EACH OF THE PARTIES
HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, AS AGAINST THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO, ANY
RIGHTS IT MAY HAVE TO A JURY TRIAL IN RESPECT OF ANY CIVIL ACTION OR PROCEEDING
(WHETHER ARISING IN CONTRACT OR TORT OR OTHERWISE), INCLUDING ANY COUNTERCLAIM,
ARISING UNDER OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER OPERATIVE DOCUMENT,
INCLUDING IN RESPECT OF THE NEGOTIATION, ADMINISTRATION OR ENFORCEMENT HEREOF OR
THEREOF.   

Section 8.17
 Waiver of Immunity .    

To the extent that
any party hereto or any of its property is or becomes entitled at any time to
any immunity on the grounds of sovereignty or otherwise from any legal actions,
suits or proceedings, from set-off or counterclaim, from the jurisdiction or
judgment of any competent court, from service of process, from execution of a
judgment, from attachment prior to judgment, from attachment in aid of
execution, or from execution prior to judgment, or other legal process in any
jurisdiction, such party, for itself and its successors and permitted assigns
and its property, does hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waive, and agrees
not to plead or claim, any such immunity with respect to its obligations,
liabilities or any other matter under or arising out of or in connection with
this Agreement, the other Related Documents or the subject matter hereof or
thereof, subject, in each case, to the provisions of the Related Documents and
mandatory requirements of applicable law.   

Section 8.18
 Costs And Expenses .    

The Parent and the
Seller will pay all reasonable expenses incident to the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement.   

Section 8.19
 Survival of Representations .    

The respective
agreements, representations, warranties, covenants, indemnities and other
statements by the Parent and the Seller set forth in or made pursuant to this
Agreement shall, except as provided in  Section 7.04  hereof, remain in
full force and survive until the third anniversary of the Closing.   

Section 8.20
 Signatures .    

Any signature
required with respect to this Agreement may be provided via facsimile or by
electronic means and shall in either case be equally effective as the delivery
of an originally executed counterpart.   

   [REMAINDER
OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
the Seller, the Parent and the Purchaser have caused this Agreement to be duly
executed by their respective officers as of the day and year first above
written.   

THE PURCHASER  
 
P R EQUIPMENT AND FINANCE CORP

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

THE SELLER  
 
INTERPOOL CONTAINERS LIMITED

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

THE PARENT  
 
INTERPOOL, INC.

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

EXHIBIT A-1   

   LIST OF CONTAINERS (INTERPOOL CONTAINERS LIMITED)    

  EXHIBIT A-2   

   LIST OF CONTAINERS (CAI)    

  EXHIBIT A-3   

   SUBSTITUTE LIST OF CONTAINERS    

  EXHIBIT B   

   CONTAINER SALE CERTIFICATE    

Interpool Containers
Limited (the   Seller  ) and P R Equipment and Finance Corp
(together with its successors and permitted assigns, the
  Purchaser  ), pursuant to the Sale Agreement, dated as of March
14, 2006 (as amended, restated, modified and supplemented, the
  Agreement  ), among Interpool, Inc., the Seller, and the
Purchaser, hereby confirm their understandings with respect to the sale by
Seller to the Purchaser of the containers listed on  Schedule 1-A  and
 1-B  attached hereto (the   Sold Containers  ) and Related
Assets as of March __, 2006. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise
defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Agreement.   

For and in
consideration of the sum of One United States Dollar (US$1.00) and other
valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Seller
hereby assigns, conveys, sells, grants, delivers, sets over and transfers to the
Purchaser and its successors and assignees forever all of the Seller s
right, title and interest in, to, and under the Sold Containers and Related
Assets to have and to hold the Sold Containers and Related Assets for its and
their use forever. For the avoidance of doubt, it is understood and agreed that
all revenue (including lease payments) attributable to the Sold Assets prior to
the Cut-Off Date shall be for the account of the Seller and all revenue
(including lease payments) attributable to the Sold Assets from and after the
Cut-Off Date shall be for the account of the Purchaser.   

The Seller and
Parent hereby jointly and severally warrant to the Purchaser and its successors
and assigns that there is hereby conveyed to the Purchaser on the date hereof
title to the Sold Containers and Related Assets free and clear of any Liens
other than Permitted Liens, and that the Seller and Parent will, jointly and
severally, warrant and defend such title forever against all claims and demands.

The Seller and
Parent hereby, jointly and severally, certify that:   

1.       As of the Funding Date, both before
and after giving effect to the sale contemplated on the Funding Date, the Seller
was not insolvent under the Insolvency Law and will not be rendered insolvent by
the transactions contemplated hereby; the Seller is paying its debts as they
become due; and, after giving effect to the transactions contemplated hereby,
will have adequate capital to conduct its business.   

2.       Each Sold Container complies with
the Container Representations and Warranties made by the Seller pursuant to the
Agreement.   

3.       Seller has, or contemporaneously
with the sale contemplated by this Container Sale Certificate it will have,
delivered all of the documents required by the Agreement and completed all of
the actions required by the Agreement.   

4.       After giving effect to the sale
contemplated hereby, the Purchaser will be the owner of each Sold Container
listed on the List of Containers attached hereto as  Schedule 1-A  and
 1-B .   

5.       The information set forth on the
List of Containers with respect to each of the Sold Containers is true and
correct.   

EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE
SET FORTH HEREIN AND WITHOUT LIMITING THE REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES SET
FORTH HEREIN, THE SELLER MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES AS TO THE SOLD
ASSETS, WHICH ARE BEING SOLD TO PURCHASER  AS IS,   WHERE
IS  AND WITH ALL DEFECTS AT THE FUNDING DATE. WITHOUT LIMITING ANY OTHER
DISCLAIMERS OR LIMITATIONS HEREIN, THE SELLER HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ANY AND
ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SOLD
ASSETS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND ANY
WARRANTIES ARISING OUT OF COURSE OF PERFORMANCE, COURSE OF DEALING OR USAGE OF
TRADE. WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, THE SELLER MAKE NO
REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY TO PURCHASER WITH RESPECT TO (A) ANY PROJECTIONS,
ESTIMATES OR BUDGETS HERETOFORE DELIVERED TO OR MADE AVAILABLE TO PURCHASER OF
FUTURE REVENUES, EXPENSES OR EXPENDITURES, FUTURE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (OR ANY
COMPONENT THEREOF), FUTURE CASH FLOWS OR FUTURE FINANCIAL CONDITION (OR ANY
COMPONENT THEREOF) OF THE SOLD ASSETS OR (B) ANY OTHER INFORMATION OR DOCUMENTS
MADE AVAILABLE TO PURCHASER OR ITS COUNSEL, ACCOUNTANTS, ADVISORS OR OTHER
REPRESENTATIVES WITH RESPECT TO THE SOLD ASSETS, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY COVERED BY
A REPRESENTATION AND WARRANTY CONTAINED IN  SECTION 3.01(A)  THROUGH
 (TT) .   

[REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]   

  All terms and conditions of
the Agreement with respect to the Purchaser, the Seller, the Parent and the Sold
Assets are hereby ratified, confirmed and incorporated herein.   

THE PURCHASER  

P R EQUIPMENT AND FINANCE CORP

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

[SIGNATURE CONTINUES
ON FOLLOWING PAGE]   

THE SELLER  

INTERPOOL CONTAINERS LIMITED

THE PURCHASER  

P R EQUIPMENT AND FINANCE CORP

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

THE PARENT 

INTERPOOL, INC.

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

Schedule 1-A to Container Sale Certificate   

    List of Containers (Interpool Containers Limited)    

  Schedule 1-B to Container Sale Certificate   

    List of Containers (CAI)    

  EXHIBIT C-1   

   MASTER EQUIPMENT LEASE AGREEMENT-INTERPOOL    

  EXHIBIT C-2   

   FINANCE LEASE-INTERPOOL    

  EXHIBIT C-3A   

   OPERATING LEASE-INTERPOOL    

  EXHIBIT C-3B   

   OPERATING LEASE-INTERPOOL    

   (includes Early Termination Option)    

  EXHIBIT C-4   

   MASTER EQUIPMENT LEASE AGREEMENT-CAI    

  EXHIBIT C-5   

   OPERATING LEASE-CAI    

  SCHEDULE 1   

  CEU VALUE BY CONTAINER TYPE   

SCHEDULE 2   

  WIRE INSTRUCTIONS   

  The payment of the Final
Purchase Price shall be made by wire transfer in accordance with the following
instructions or as otherwise provided by the Seller on the Funding Date:

ACCT NAME 
 
Interpool Containers Limited

ACCT ADDRESS 
 
211 College Road East 
Princeton, NJ, USA

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 16
 interpool-ex1055_030906.htm
 EX-10.55

Exhibit 10.55 

Execution Copy   

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

Note Purchase Agreement  

Dated as of April 30, 1998  

Subordinated Secured Note  

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

Page    

Container Applications International, Inc. 
3 Embarcadero Center, Suite 1850 
San Francisco, California 94111-3834 
 
As of April 30, 1998 
 
Note Purchase Agreement  

Interpool, Inc. 
633 Third Avenue 
17th Floor 
New York, New York 10017  

Dear Sirs:  

Container Applications International, Inc.,
a Nevada corporation ("Company"), hereby agrees with you ("Purchaser") as
follows:   

ARTICLE I  
DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION    

1.1   Definitions.  For
purposes of this Agreement, the following initially capitalized terms shall have
the following meanings:   

Accommodation Obligation  shall mean, as applied to any Person, any
obligation of such Person guaranteeing or intended to guarantee (whether
guaranteed, endorsed, co-made, discounted, or sold with recourse to such Person)
any Debt, lease, dividend, letter of credit, or other obligation ( primary
obligation ) of any other Person ( primary obligor ) in any
manner whether directly or indirectly, including any obligation of such Person
(irrespective of whether contingent), (a) to purchase any such primary
obligation or any Asset constituting direct or indirect security therefor,
(b) to advance or supply funds (whether in the form of a loan, advance,
stock purchase, capital contribution, or otherwise) (i) for the purchase,
repurchase, or payment of any such primary obligation or any Asset constituting
direct or indirect security therefor, or (ii) to maintain working capital or
equity capital of the primary obligor, or to otherwise maintain the net worth,
solvency, or other financial condition of the primary obligor, (c) to purchase
or make payment for any Asset, securities, services, or lease, regardless of the
non-delivery or non-furnishing thereof, if primarily for the purpose of assuring
the owner of any such primary obligation of the ability of the primary obligor
to make payment of such primary obligation, or (d) to otherwise assure or hold
harmless the owner of such primary obligation against loss in respect thereof.

Affiliate  shall mean, as applied to any Person, any other Person
directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with,
that Person. For the purpose of this definition,  control  (including,
with correlative meanings, the terms  controlling,   controlled
by  and  under common control with ), as applied to any Person,
means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause
the direction of the management or policies of that Person, whether through the
ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.   

Agreement  shall mean this Note Purchase Agreement between Company
and Purchaser, together with all exhibits hereto.   

Ancillary Documents  shall mean the Security Agreement and any and
all other documents, agreements, or instruments other than this Agreement and
the Note, which have been or are entered into on or before the Closing Date by
Company and Purchaser in connection with the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, and any and all alterations, amendments, changes, extensions,
modifications, revisions, restatements, or supplements to any of the foregoing.

Asset  shall mean any interest of a Person in any kind of property or
asset, whether real, personal, or mixed real and personal, or whether tangible
or intangible.   

Bank Credit Agreement  shall mean the Fourth Restated Revolving
Credit and Term Loan Agreement dated as of April 30, 1998 between Company,
BankBoston, N.A., as agent, and the other banks named therein and as it may be
further amended from time to time with such consent, if any, of the Noteholders
as is required under the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement.   

Bankruptcy Code  shall mean The Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978
(11 U.S.C. 101-1330), as amended or supplemented from time to time, and any
successor statute, and any and all rules issued or promulgated in connection
therewith.   

Banks  shall mean the bank(s) or other financial institution(s) that
are from time to time parties to the Bank Credit Agreement.   

Business Day  means any day on which commercial banks are not
authorized or required to close in New York, New York.   

Capitalized Lease  shall mean any lease under which the Company or
any of its Subsidiaries is the lessee or obligor, the discounted future rental
payment obligations under which are required to be capitalized on the balance
sheet of the lessee or obligor in accordance with GAAP.   

CERCLA  shall mean the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended or supplemented from time to
time (by SARA or otherwise), set forth at 42 U.S.C.    9601-9657,
and any and all tools and regulations issued or promulgated in connection
therewith.   

Closing Date  shall mean the date of the purchase of the Note, which
date shall be a Business Day.   

Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended or
supplemented from time to time, or any successor or superseding tax laws of the
United States of America, and any and all rules and regulations issued or
promulgated in connection therewith.   

Company  shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to this
Agreement.   

Computation Date  shall have the meaning given said term in
Section 6.1(c).   

Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net Worth  shall mean, at any time,
the Consolidated Tangible Net Worth of Company and its Subsidiaries at such time
plus the outstanding amount of Subordinated Debt of Company and its Subsidiaries
(excluding the current portion thereof).   

Consolidated Net Income (or Deficit)  shall mean, with respect to
Company and its Subsidiaries, the consolidated net income (or deficit) of
Company and its Subsidiaries after deduction of all expenses, taxes and other
proper charges, determined in accordance with GAAP, after eliminating therefrom
all extraordinary nonrecurring items.   

Consolidated Operating Cash Flow  shall mean for any period, an
amount equal to (i) Consolidated Net Income (or Deficit) for such period,
plus (ii) depreciation, amortization and all other noncash charges for such
period, plus (iii) the principal portion of payments received by the
Company from Direct Finance Leases during such period, plus in the case of
credits for and minus in the case of debits for (iv) deferred taxes for
such period, plus (v) all consolidated rental expenses of Company for such
period under operating leases.   

Consolidated Senior Debt  shall mean, at any time, all obligations of
Company and its Subsidiaries consisting of Debt for borrowed money, the deferred
purchase price of assets and in respect of Capitalized Leases minus obligations
of such Persons in respect of Subordinated Debt (other than the current portion
thereof) plus all Debt of such Person in respect of Rental Obligations.  

Consolidated Tangible Net Worth  shall mean the excess of
Consolidated Total Assets over Consolidated Total Liabilities, and less the sum
of:   

(a)   the total book value of all assets of the Company and its
Subsidiaries properly classified as intangible assets under GAAP, including such
items as goodwill, the purchase price of acquired assets in excess of the fair
market value thereof (for purposes of this definition, the purchase price of new
containers acquired in arm s-length purchases from third parties shall be
deemed to equal the fair market value thereof), trademarks, trade names, service
marks, brand names, copyrights, patents and licenses, and rights with respect to
the foregoing; plus  

(b)  all amounts representing any write-up in the book value of
any assets of the Company or its Subsidiaries resulting from a revaluation
thereof subsequent to June 30, 1991, excluding adjustments to translate foreign
assets and liabilities for changes in foreign exchange rates made in accordance
with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 52; plus  

(c)  to the extent otherwise includable
in the computation of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth, any subscriptions
receivable.  

Consolidated Total Assets  shall mean all assets of the Company and
its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.

Consolidated Total Debt Service  shall mean, as of any Computation
Date, for the period specified in the applicable covenant ending on such
Computation Date (the  Test Period ), the sum of (a) the principal
portion of payments required to be made by the Company on Capitalized Leases
during the Test Period, plus (b) without duplication, the principal portion of
all payments of all Debt of the Company due and payable during the Test Period,
plus (c) a fraction of the average daily outstanding amount of the
Revolving Credit Loans during the Test Period, which fraction shall be, if the
Computation Date is on or before December 31, 1998, one twelfth (1/12), and if
the Computation Date is after December 31, 1998 one tenth (1/10), plus
(d) without duplication, all required payments of the Term Loan (as defined
in the Bank Credit Agreement) to be made pursuant to Section 4.3 of the Bank
Credit Agreement during the period specified in the applicable covenant
commencing on such Computation Date.   

Consolidated Total Interest Expense  shall mean for any period, the
aggregate amount of interest required to be paid or accrued by Company and its
Subsidiaries during such period on all Debt of Company and its Subsidiaries
outstanding during all or any part of such period, whether such interest was or
is required to be reflected as an item of expense or capitalized, including
payments consisting of interest in respect of Capitalized Leases and including
commitment fees, agency fees, facility fees, balance deficiency fees and similar
fees or expenses in connection with the borrowing of money.   

Consolidated Total Liabilities  shall mean all of the liabilities of
Company and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance
with GAAP and, without duplication, all Debts of the Company and its
Subsidiaries, whether or not so classified.   

Contractual Obligation  shall mean, as applied to any Person, any
provision of any security agreement entered into by that Person or of any
material indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, contract, undertaking, agreement,
or other instrument to which that Person is a party or by which it or any of its
owned Assets is bound or to which it or any of its owned Assets is subject.

Debt  shall mean all obligations, contingent and otherwise, that in
accordance with GAAP should be classified upon the obligor s balance sheet
as liabilities, or to which reference should be made by footnotes thereto,
including in any event and whether or not so classified: (a) all debt and
similar monetary obligations, whether direct or indirect; (b) all
liabilities secured by any mortgage, pledge, security interest, lien, charge or
other encumbrance existing on property owned or acquired subject thereto,
whether or not the liability secured thereby shall have been assumed; (c) all
Rental Obligations; and (d) all guarantees, endorsements and other contingent
obligations whether direct or indirect in respect of indebtedness of others,
including any obligation to supply funds to or in any manner to invest in,
directly or indirectly, the debtor, to purchase Debt, or to assure the owner of
Debt against loss, through an agreement to purchase goods, supplies or services
for the purpose of enabling the debtor to make payment of the indebtedness held
by such owner or otherwise, and the obligations to reimburse the issuer in
respect of any letters of credit.   

Debt Coverage Ratio  shall have the meaning given said term in
Section 6.1(c).   

Direct Finance Leases  shall mean leases pursuant to which Company
leases containers to a lessee and (a) the terms of such lease provide that title
to such containers will pass to such lessee at the end of the lease term
automatically or at the option of the lessee for no additional consideration or
for nominal additional consideration, or upon terms with substantially similar
economic effect and (b) the interest component of the proceeds of such
lease are booked on Company s financial statements as  Income from
Direct Finance Leases.    

Disclosure Statement  shall mean the disclosure statement dated the
date hereof, executed and delivered by a Responsible Officer of Company, which
sets forth information called for by, or exceptions to, the representations and
warranties made by Company herein.   

Dollars  or  $  shall mean United States of America dollars
or such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of
payment shall be legal lender for the payment of public and private debts in the
United States of America.   

Earnings Before Interest and Taxes  shall mean, for any period, an
amount equal to (a) Consolidated Net Income (or Deficit) for such period,
plus (b) Consolidated Total Interest Expense for such period, plus
(c) income taxes for the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period.

Effective Date  shall have the meaning set forth in the Bank Credit
Agreement.   

Environment  shall have the meaning set forth in 42 U.S.C.
  9601(8).   

Environmental Protection Statute  shall mean any federal or state
law, statute, rule, order, determination, or regulation (including CERCLA, RCRA,
and SARA) enacted in connection with or relating to the protection or regulation
of the Environment, including those laws, statutes, rules, orders,
determinations and regulations regulating the disposal, removal, production,
storing, refining, handling, transferring, processing, or transporting of
Hazardous Waste or Hazardous Substances (or similar substances), and any
regulations issued or promulgated in connection with such statutes by any
Governmental Agency.   

EPA  shall mean the United States Environmental Protection Agency or
any successor thereto.   

ERISA  shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended.   

Event of Default  shall have the meaning set forth in
Article VII.   

Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended or supplemented from time to time, and any successor statute, and any
and all rules and regulations issued or promulgated in connection therewith.

Exclusive Supply Agreement  shall mean the Exclusive Supply
Agreement dated July 30, 1992 between the Company and Mitsui, as amended from time to
time.   

Federal Reserve Board  shall mean the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System of the United States of America or any successor thereto.

Funding Date  shall mean the date on which the Purchaser pays to the
Company the purchase price for the Note, which date shall be on or before
April 30, 1998.   

GAAP  shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States of America in effect on the date of this Agreement; provided,
however, that all financial statements to be furnished to Purchaser after the
Closing Date shall utilize such generally accepted accounting principles in
effect at the time of preparation.   

Governmental Agency  shall mean any agency, department, board,
commission, district or other public organ, whether federal, state, local or
foreign.   

Hazardous Substance  shall have the meaning set forth in 42 U.S.C.
  9601(14).   

Hazardous Waste  shall have the meaning set forth in 42 U.S.C.
  6903(5) and 40 C.F.R.   261.3.  

Indemnified Liabilities  shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 10.2.   

Indemnitee  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2.  

Installment Sales Contract Indemnity Clause  shall mean the indemnity
clause from the Company in favor of Mitsui contained in any Installment Sales
Contract, each as set forth in Schedule II of the Stock Purchase Agreement.

Intangible Assets  shall mean that portion of the book value of any
Person s Assets which would be treated as intangibles under GAAP,
including, to the extent so treated, all items such as goodwill, trademarks,
trade names, brands, trade secrets, customer lists, computer software,
copyrights, patents, licenses, franchise conversion rights, and rights with
respect to any of the foregoing, and all unamortized debt discount and expenses.

Interest Rate Protection Obligations  shall mean, with respect to any
Person, any obligations of such Person under any interest rate swap agreements,
interest rate cap agreements, interest rate collar agreements, or any other
similar agreements with respect to interest payable on Debt.   

Investment  shall mean, all expenditures made and all liabilities
incurred (contingently or otherwise) for the acquisition of stock or Debt of, or
for loans, advances, capital contributions or transfers of property to, or in
respect of any guaranties (or other commitments as described under Debt), or
obligations of, any Person. In determining the aggregate amount of Investments
outstanding at any particular time: (a) the amount of any Investment
represented by a guaranty shall be taken at not less than the principal amount
of the obligations guaranteed and still outstanding; (b) there shall be
included as an Investment all interest accrued with respect to Debt constituting
an Investment unless and until such interest is paid; (c) there shall be
deducted in respect of each such Investment any amount received as a return of
capital (but only by repurchase, redemption, retirement, repayment, liquidating
dividend or liquidating distribution); (d) there shall not be deducted in
respect of any Investment any amounts received as earnings on such Investment,
whether as dividends, interest or otherwise, except that accrued interest
included as provided in the foregoing clause (b) may be deducted when paid; and
(e) there shall not be deducted from the aggregate amount of Investments
any decrease in the value thereof.   

Leverage Ratio  shall mean, at any time, the ratio of:
(a) Consolidated Senior Debt to (b) Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net
Worth.   

Lien  shall mean any lien, mortgage, pledge, assignment (including
any assignment of rights to receive payments of money), security interest,
charge, or encumbrance of any kind (including any conditional sale or other
title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any Capitalized
Lease, and any agreement to give any security interest).   

Maturity Date  shall mean the tenth anniversary of the Funding Date.

Mitsui  shall mean Mitsui Ltd. and Mitsui USA.   

Mitsui Ltd.  shall mean Mitsui   Co., Ltd., a Japanese
corporation.   

Mitsui USA  shall mean Mitsui   Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. a
New York corporation.   

Nonrecourse Loans  shall have the meaning set forth in the Bank
Credit Agreement.   

Note  shall mean the subordinated secured promissory note issued
hereunder, substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto, with
appropriate insertions, executed by Company.   

Noteholder(s)  shall mean the Purchaser and/or any permitted
assignees or transferees of the Note.   

Officer s Compliance Certificate  shall mean a certificate of
the chief financial officer of Company, substantially in the form of
Exhibit B attached hereto.   

Operating Lease  shall mean, as applied to any Person, any lease of
any Asset which is not a Capitalized Lease, other than any such lease under
which such Person is the lessor.   

Permitted Liens  shall mean: (i) liens in favor of the Company
on all or part of the assets of Subsidiaries of the Company securing
indebtedness owing by Subsidiaries of the Company to the Company;
(ii) liens to secure taxes, assessments and other government charges in
respect of obligations not overdue or liens on properties to secure claims for
labor, material or supplies in respect of obligations not overdue;
(iii) deposits or pledges made in connection with, or to secure payment of,
workmen s compensation, unemployment insurance, old age pensions or other
social security obligations; (iv) liens on properties in respect of
judgments or awards, the Debt with respect to which is permitted by
Section 9.1(d) of the Bank Credit Agreement; (v) liens of carriers,
warehousemen, mechanics and materialmen, and other like liens on properties in
existence less than 120 days from the date of creation thereof in respect of
obligations not overdue; (vi) encumbrances on real estate consisting of
easements, rights of way, zoning restrictions, restrictions on the use of real
property and defects and irregularities in the title thereto, landlord s or
lessor s liens under leases to which the Company or a Subsidiary of the
Company is a party, and other minor liens or encumbrances none of which
interferes materially with the use of the property affected in the ordinary
conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, which defects do
not individually or in the aggregate have a materially adverse effect on the
business of the Company individually or of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis; (vii) liens listed on Schedule 9.2 to the Bank
Credit Agreement; (viii) security interests in or mortgages on real or
personal property acquired or leased after the Effective Date to secure Debt of
the type and amount permitted by Section 9.1(g) or Section 9.1(h) of
the Bank Credit Agreement, and proceeds thereof (including without limitation
leases, accounts receivable, instruments and documents) which security interests
or mortgages cover only the real or personal property to acquired or leased;
(ix) liens on assets and property of the Company in favor of Purchaser;
(x) liens in favor of the Banks and the agent therefor under the Loan
Documents (as defined in the Bank Credit Agreement); (xi) liens consisting
of the interest of lessees under leases of containers where the Company is
lessor; (xii) liens on the property listed on Schedule 9.2 to the Bank
Credit Agreement which are granted to secure any refinancing or renewal of Debt
permitted under Section 9.1 of the Bank Credit Agreement which refinancing
or renewal is permitted under Section 9.1(k) of the Bank Credit Agreement
(subject to all the provisos contained therein) provided, that (i) such
liens encumber the same property (and no additional assets or property of the
company) as secured the Debt that was so refinanced or renewed and (ii) the
aggregate amount of Debt secured by such property has not increased as a result
of such refinancing or renewal; and (xiii) the interests of lessors in
property leased to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company under
Section 9.1(g) or 9.1(h) of the Bank Credit Agreement.   

Person  shall mean and include natural persons, corporations, limited
partnerships, general partnerships, joint stock companies, joint ventures,
associations, companies  trusts, banks, trust companies, land trusts,
business trusts, or other organizations, irrespective of whether they are legal
entities, and governments and agencies and political subdivisions thereof.

Purchaser  shall have the meaning set forth in the introduction to
this Agreement.   

Quarterly Payment Date  shall mean the date which numerically
corresponds to the Funding Date in every third month after the Funding Date or,
if such day is not a Business Day, the next Business Day.   

Rate  shall mean a rate per annum equal to 10-1/2%, computed on the
basis of a three hundred sixty (360) day year and actual days elapsed.

RCRA  shall mean the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976,
as amended or supplemented from time to time, set forth at 42 U.S.C.
  9601 et seq., and any and all rules and regulations issued or
promulgated in connection therewith.   

Rental Obligations  shall mean all present or future obligations of
Company or any of its Subsidiaries under any rental agreements or leases of real
or personal property, other than (a) obligations that can be terminated by
the giving of notice without liability to Company or such Subsidiary in excess
of the liability for rent due as of the date on which such notice is given and
under which no penalty or premium is paid as a result of any such termination,
(b) rental agreements relating to equipment other than Containers (as
defined in the Bank Credit Agreement) having an aggregate value of less than
$1,000,000 for all such agreements, and (c) obligations in respect of
Capitalized Leases. For purposes of this Agreement, the aggregate amount of
Rental Obligations of any Person shall be, as at any date of determination, at
an amount equal to the net present value, calculated at a discount rate of nine
percent (9%) per annum, of the future Rental Obligations of such Person.  

Representative  shall mean any trustee, fiduciary, agent, or
representative of any issue of Debt.   

Required Noteholders  shall mean Noteholders holding an aggregate
principal amount at least equal to 66-2/3% of the aggregate principal amount of
Notes then outstanding.   

Responsible Officer  shall mean the president, the treasurer, or any
vice president of a Person, or such other officer of such Person designated by a
Responsible Officer of such Person in a writing delivered to Purchaser.  

Revolving Credit Loans  shall have the meaning given said term in the
Bank Credit Agreement.   

SARA  shall mean the Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act of
1986, as amended or supplemented from time to time, set forth in Public Law
99-499 et seq., and any and all rules and regulations issued or promulgated in
connection therewith.   

Securities Act  shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended
from time to time, and any successor statute, and any and all rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder.   

Security Agreement  shall mean the security agreement dated as of
April 30, 1998, as it may be amended from time to time, between Company and
Purchaser.   

Senior Debt  shall mean the principal of and premium, if any, and
interest (including interest accruing after the filing of a petition initiating
any proceeding under any state or federal bankruptcy laws) on all obligations of
every nature of Company from time to time owed to Banks under the Bank Credit
Agreement, including principal of and interest on, and all fees related to, any
revolving loans, term loans and all reimbursement obligations and fees in
respect of letters of credit (or any combination thereof made pursuant to the
Bank Credit Agreement), all costs and expenses reimbursable thereunder, and all
reimbursement and other obligations owed by Company with respect to Interest
Rate Protection Obligations incurred to satisfy the requirements of the Bank
Credit Agreement or otherwise, whether outstanding on the date hereof or
hereafter created, incurred, or assumed.   

Staff Loan Program  shall mean a program administered by the Company
pursuant to which the Company makes loans to employees, provided that the
aggregate amount of loans outstanding at any time under such program shall not
exceed $2,000,000 plus the amount of interest on any such loans added to
principal and shall be used solely for the purpose of enabling employees to
purchase preferred stock.   

Stock Purchase Agreement  shall mean that certain stock
purchase agreement between Mitsui, Company, Hiromitsu Ogawa and Purchaser dated
January 31, 1998.   

Subordinated Debt  shall have the meaning given said term in the Bank
Credit Agreement.   

Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement  shall have the meaning
given to it in the Bank Credit Agreement.   

Subsidiary  shall mean, with respect to any Person:
(a) any corporation in which such Person, directly or indirectly through its
Subsidiaries, owns more than fifty percent (50%) of the stock of any class or classes
having by the terms thereof the ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors
of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time stock of any class or classes of
such corporation shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any
contingency); and (b) any partnership, association, joint venture, or other entity in
which such Person directly or indirectly through its Subsidiaries, has more than a fifty
percent (50%) equity interest at the time.   

Taxes  shall mean any tax based upon or measured by net or gross
income, gross receipts, sales, use, ad valorem, transfer, franchise,
withholding, payroll, employment. excise, occupation, premium or property taxes,
or conduct of business, together with any interest and penalties, additions to
tax and additional amounts imposed by any federal, state, local, or foreign
taxing authority upon any Person.   

Third-Party Action  shall mean any consent, waiver, release,
approval, license or other authorization of, or notice to, or filing with, any
other Person, whether or not a Governmental Agency, and the expiration of any
associated mandatory waiting period.   

Unmatured Event of Default  shall mean an event, act, or occurrence
which, with the giving of notice or passage of time, would become an Event of
Default.   

1.2  Construction.  Unless the context of this Agreement clearly
requires otherwise, references to the plural include the singular, to the
singular include the plural, and to the part include the whole, the term
 including  is not limiting, and the term  or  has the
inclusive meaning represented by the phrase  and/or.  References in
this Agreement to  determination  by Purchaser include good faith
estimates (in case of quantitative determinations) by Purchaser and good faith
beliefs (in the case of qualitative determinations), as applicable. The words
 hereof,   herein,   hereby, 
 hereunder,  and similar terms in this Agreement refer to this
Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement.
Article, section, subsection, clause, exhibit, and schedule references are to
this Agreement unless otherwise specified. Any reference in this Agreement, the
Note or any Ancillary Document to the Agreement, the Note or any Ancillary
Document includes any and all alterations, amendments, changes, extensions,
modifications, renewals, or supplements thereto or thereof. Neither this
Agreement, nor the Note, nor the Ancillary Documents, nor any uncertainty or
ambiguity contained herein or therein, shall be construed or resolved against
Company or Purchaser, whether under any rule of construction or otherwise. On
the contrary, this Agreement, the Note, and the Ancillary Documents have been
reviewed by Company, Purchaser, and their respective counsel and shall be
construed and interpreted according to the ordinary meaning of the words used so
as to accomplish fairly the purposes of Company and Purchaser.   

1.3  Accounting Terms.  All accounting terms not specifically
defined herein shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, including (subject to
the definition of GAAP contained herein) applicable statements, bulletins, and
interpretations issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and
bulletins, opinions, interpretations, and statements issued by the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants or its committees. When used herein,
the term  financial statements  shall include the notes and schedules
thereto.   

ARTICLE II 
 
THE NOTE    

2.1  Authorization and Issuance of the Note.  Company has
authorized the issuance of the Note in the aggregate principal amount of Thirty
Three Million Six Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($33,650,000).   

2.2  Purchase and Sale of
Note.    

(a)  Subject to the terms
and conditions of this Agreement, Company shall sell to Purchaser and Purchaser
shall purchase from Company a Note in the aggregate principal amount of Thirty
Three Million Six Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($33,650,000). The purchase
price for the Note shall be equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the principal
amount thereof. The Note shall be purchased on the Funding Date.  

(b)  Delivery of the Note
will be made on the Closing Date at the offices of Stroock   Stroock  
Lavan LLP, 180 Maiden Lane, New York, New York against payment of the purchase
price therefor by transfer of immediately available Dollars, or as may otherwise
be agreed to between Company and Purchaser.  

2.3  Time and Place of Payments;
Interest Rate; Payment of Principal and Interest under the Note.   

(a)  Any payment to be made hereunder or under the Note shall be made
not later than 2:00 p.m., New York time, on the date of payment to the bank
accounts designated after the signature of Purchaser hereto and shall be made by
wire transfer of immediately available Dollars to such designated bank accounts,
marked for attention as indicated, or in any other manner or any other place
within or the continental limits of the United States of America as may be
directed, in writing, by Purchaser. Payments and prepayments of principal or
interest with respect to the Note may be evidenced by notations made by the
Purchaser on the schedule annexed to the Note; provided, however, that any
failure by Purchaser to make any such notation (whether with respect to payments
or prepayments of principal or interest) on such schedule shall not in any way
affect, impair, or enlarge Company s obligations under this Agreement or
the Note.  

(b)  The unpaid principal balance of the Note shall bear interest from
the Funding Date at the Rate. Interest due shall be due and payable in arrears,
commencing on the first Quarterly Payment Date immediately following the Funding
Date, and continuing on each Quarterly Payment Date thereafter up to and
including the Quarterly Payment Date immediately preceding the Maturity Date,
and on the Maturity Date. Interest shall be payable in cash subject to paragraph
(c) of this Section 2.3.  

(c)  If the Company is
prohibited, pursuant to Section 2(b)(i) of the Subordination and Intercreditor
Agreement, from making any cash payments of interest due under the terms of the
Note on any Quarterly Payment Date, then (subject to the next sentence) the
Company shall satisfy its obligation to pay such interest by issuing a new note
(each, a  PIK Note ), in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto, in the
principal amount equal to the amount of the interest then due. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if, in the opinion of Purchaser or Purchaser s independent
auditors, the receipt of a PIK Note on such Quarterly Payment Date would create
a significant risk that the Company would become a consolidated subsidiary of
the Purchaser under GAAP, then in lieu of the issuance of an additional PIK Note
on such Quarterly Payment Date, the interest due under the terms of the Note
shall accrue from the preceding Quarterly Payment Date at the Rate. Accrual of
interest which the Company would be entitled to pay by the delivery of a PIK
Note, but for the provisions of the preceding sentence, shall not constitute a
payment default for purposes of Section 7.1(a) of this Agreement.  

(d)  Principal shall be due and payable in accordance with Section
2.6(b).  

2.4  Overdue Rate.  Any payments of principal or (to the extent
permitted by law and both before and after judgment) interest with respect to
the Note, the fees payable under this Agreement, or any other amounts not paid
when due hereunder or declared due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by
lapse of time, or otherwise, shall bear interest thereafter and without
affecting any of the other rights and remedies provided for herein or in the
Note, at a rate from and including the due date to but excluding the date on
which such amount is paid in full equal to the Overdue Rate. The  Overdue
Rate  shall mean a rate equal to two (2) percentage points per annum above
the Rate applicable to the Note from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.

2.5  Computation of Interest.  All computations of interest
with respect to the Note and all computations of interest due under Section 2.4
for any period shall be calculated on the basis of a year of three hundred sixty
(360) days for the actual number of days elapsed. Interest shall accrue from and
including the Funding Date to and excluding the date of the repayment of all
amounts outstanding under the Note.   

2.6  Prepayment. 

(a)  Voluntary Prepayments. Company shall have the right, at
any time and from time to time, upon thirty (30) Business Days  prior
written notice to the Purchaser, to prepay, in whole or in part, the principal
balance outstanding under the Note. Upon giving such notice, the amount
specified in the notice shall become due and payable in full on the specified
date. Each partial prepayment under the Note shall be in a minimum aggregate
amount of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) and, thereafter, in integral
multiples of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000).  

(b)  Mandatory Prepayments. Unless prepaid in accordance with
the terms hereof, Company shall pay consecutive quarterly installments of
principal with respect to the Note, without demand, beginning on the
twenty-first Quarterly Payment Date after the Funding Date and on each Quarterly
Payment Date thereafter through, and including, the Maturity Date. The amount of
each such installment shall be equal to the remaining principal balance of the
Note divided by the number of remaining scheduled mandatory principal
prepayments (including the prepayment then to be made).  

(c)  Form of Prepayment. Each voluntary or mandatory prepayment
made pursuant to this Section 2.6 shall be by a wire transfer of immediately
available Dollars.  

(d)  Application of Voluntary Prepayments. Any voluntary
prepayment made pursuant to this Section 2.6 shall be applied, first, to accrued
and unpaid interest on the amount prepaid and, then, to principal.  

2.7  Holidays.  Any payments which would otherwise become due on
a day other than a Business Day shall instead become due on the next succeeding
Business Day and such extension shall be reflected in the computation of any
payments due hereunder on such adjusted date.   

2.8  Security.  Company s obligations under this Agreement
and the Note shall be secured by the Security Agreement, which shall create a
security interest in and lien on all Containers of Company now owned or
hereafter acquired (other than the Containers described as Excluded Assets on
Schedule A of the Security Agreement), subject only to the security interest and
lien under the Bank Credit Agreement in favor of the Agent and the Banks (as
defined in the Bank Credit Agreement) to the extent provided therein.

2.9  Tax Withholding.  Each Noteholder that is not incorporated
under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof agrees that it
will certify to the Company that it is entitled to receive payments under this
Agreement without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income
taxes or authorize Company, and Company hereby agrees, to withhold taxes and
make tax payments on such Noteholder s behalf as required by applicable law
and promptly provide to such Noteholder a certificate of payment of such
withholding taxes.   

2.10  Calculation of Principal.  Noteholder shall have the right
to annotate a principal schedule annexed to the Note to reflect all increases in
principal under the Note (including without limitation, any increases in
principal resulting from additions of unpaid interest pursuant to Section
2.3(b)), and any payment of principal. Such principal schedule is to be
conclusive evidence of principal owed, absent manifest error.   

ARTICLE III 
 
CONDITIONS TO THE PURCHASE OF THE NOTE    

3.1  Conditions Precedent to be Satisfied at Closing Date.  The
obligation of Purchaser to purchase the Note hereunder is subject to the
fulfillment, to the satisfaction of Purchaser, or waiver by Purchaser in its
sole discretion of each of the following conditions on or before the Closing
Date:   

(a)  Purchaser shall have received the Note dated the Funding
Date, duly executed by Company to the order of Purchaser;  

(b)  Purchaser shall have received a duly executed
Officer s Compliance Certificate substantially in the form of
Exhibit C, dated as of the Closing Date, detailing the calculations made by
Company based upon the balance sheet referred to in Section 3.1(n), by
which Company has determined that it is in compliance with the financial
covenants contained herein which are applicable as of the Closing
Date;  

(c)  Company shall have delivered a certificate of a
Responsible Officer of Company substantially in the form of Exhibit C
attached hereto setting forth the amount of proceeds from the sale of the Note
which will be used (i) to finance the acquisition of new marine containers,
(ii) to refinance containers already owned by the Company or leased by the
Company on a direct finance lease basis, (iii) to redeem the issued and
outstanding shares of Preferred Stock held by Mitsui and (iv) to repay all
outstanding Debt owed to Mitsui;  

(d)  the representations and warranties set forth in Article IV
of this Agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date, as
though made on and as of the Closing Date;  

(e)  the affirmative covenants set forth in Article V of this
Agreement which require performance prior to the Closing Date shall have been
performed as of the Closing Date;  

(f)  both before and after giving effect to the purchase of the
Note, Company and its Subsidiaries shall be in compliance with all of the
requirements of each of the covenants contained in this Agreement;  

(g)  the Closing Date shall occur on or before April 30,
1998;  

(h)  Purchaser shall have received one or more written
opinions, dated the Closing Date, of counsel to Company, substantially in the
form and substance of Exhibit D attached hereto, or otherwise in form and
substance satisfactory to Purchaser;  

(i)  Purchaser shall have received certificates of corporate
status with respect to Company and each of its Subsidiaries, dated within 30
calendar days of the Closing Date, or confirmed by telex, if telex confirmation
is available, such certificates to be issued by the Secretary of State (or
similar officer) of the jurisdiction of incorporation of Company and each of
such Subsidiaries, which certificates shall indicate that Company and each of
such Subsidiaries are in good standing in such jurisdiction;  

(j)  Purchaser shall have received certificates of corporate
status indicating that Company and each of its Subsidiaries are in good standing
as foreign corporations, dated within 30 calendar days of the Closing Date, or
confirmed by telex, if telex confirmation is available, such certificates to be
issued by the Secretary of State (or similar official) of the jurisdiction in
which its or their failure to be duly qualified or licensed would have a
material adverse effect on its or their business;  

(k)   Purchaser shall have received a copy of Company s
Articles of Incorporation, certified by the Secretary of Company;  

(l)   Purchaser shall have received a copy of the bylaws of
Company, certified by the Secretary of Company;  

(m)   Purchaser shall have received a signature and incumbency
certificate of the Responsible Officer of Company executing this Agreement, the
Note, and the Ancillary Documents to which Company is a party, certified by the
Secretary of Company;  

(n)   Purchaser shall have received a consolidated pro forma
balance sheet of Company, dated as of the latest practicable date, and certified
by the President or Chief Financial Officer of Company, which gives effect to
the transactions contemplated under this Agreement, the Note, and the Ancillary
Documents;  

(o)   Purchaser shall have received each of the Ancillary
Documents, if any, not previously delivered, all duly executed by the parties
thereto;  

(p)   Purchaser shall have received a certificate from the
Secretary of Company attesting to the resolutions of Company s board of
directors authorizing its execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement,
the Note, and the Ancillary Documents to which Company is a party, and
authorizing specific Responsible Officers to execute same;  

(q)   Purchaser shall have received a payment of no more than
$30,000,000 to be applied to legal fees, costs, and expenses incurred in
connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution, and delivery of this
Agreement, the Note, the Ancillary Documents and the other documents related
hereto and thereto;  

(r)   the representations and warranties set forth in the
Ancillary Documents shall be true and correct;  

(s)   each of the Ancillary Documents shall be in full force and
effect and all filings and other notifications necessary to create and perfect
Purchaser s security interest under the Security Agreement shall have been
made;  

(t)   no material adverse change shall have occurred since
January 1, 1998 in the proposed business, operations, Assets, prospects, or
consolidated financial condition of Company;  

(u)   no litigation, inquiry, other action or proceeding
(governmental or otherwise), or injunction or other restraining order shall be
pending or threatened which, in the reasonable opinion of Purchaser,
(i) could be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on
Company s ability to repay the Note or perform its obligations under this
Agreement or the Ancillary Documents, or (ii) could be reasonably likely to
have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, Assets, prospects,
liabilities, earnings, or condition (financial or other) of Company;  

(v)   Purchaser shall have received satisfactory evidence of
Company s having obtained all orders, consents, approvals, and other
authorizations, and having made all filings and other notifications
(governmental or otherwise) and all other Third Party Actions having been taken
required in connection with the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement;  

(w)   Purchaser shall have completed or received all audits,
inspections, appraisals, and examinations as deemed necessary in
Purchaser s opinion with respect to the Assets, books and records, and
business, financial condition, and operations of Company and its
Subsidiaries;  

(x)   Purchaser shall have received from Company consolidated
cash flow projections for Company and its Subsidiaries for a period of not less
than two (2) years from and after the Closing Date;  

(y)   no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default shall
have occurred and be continuing, nor shall either result from the sale of the
Note and the application of the proceeds as provided hereunder;  

(z)   the Bank Credit Agreement shall be in full force and
effect, subject only to the consummation of the Interpool Transactions (as
defined in the Bank Credit Agreement), pursuant to which Company shall be
entitled to borrow up to One Hundred and Sixty-Five Million Dollars
($165,000,000) with at least One Hundred and Fifty-One Million, Two Hundred and
Eighteen Thousand, Six Hundred and Seventeen Dollars ($151,218,617) available
for borrowing by Company immediately prior to Closing;  

(aa)   all other documents and legal matters in connection with
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have been delivered or
executed and shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to
Purchaser;  

(bb)   Mitsui shall have performed and complied in all material
respects with all covenants required in the Stock Purchase Agreement to be
performed or complied with by Mitsui at or before the Closing Date including,
without limitation, those to be performed on the Closing Date pursuant to
Section 1 of the Stock Purchase Agreement;  

(cc)   All directors of the Company elected by Mitsui shall have
delivered their written resignation as directors and officers, effective on the
Closing Date;  

(dd)   All corporate and other proceedings on the part of Mitsui
in connection with the transaction to be consummated or the Closing Date, and
all documents and instruments incident to such transactions, shall be reasonably
satisfactory in substance and form to the Purchaser;  

(ee)   The waiting period under Hart-Scott shall have expired or
been terminated, and all other Third-Party Action (as defined in the Stock
Purchase Agreement) required in order to consummate the transactions
contemplated by the Stock Purchase Agreement without thereby causing any breach,
acceleration or imposition of a Lien under any contract to which the Company is
a party or by which the Company or its property is bound, other than any the
absence of which in the aggregate would not have a material effect on the
transactions contemplated hereby, shall have been taken;  

(ff)   No claims arising under the indemnification provision of
the Stock Purchase Agreement have been threatened or asserted and Company is
aware of no facts which may give rise to such a claim;  

(gg)   The Company and/or Mr. Ogawa on one side, and Mitsui
on the other side, shall have entered into the Termination Agreement
contemplated by Section 1.7 of the Stock Purchase Agreement, which will be in
form and substance satisfactory to the Purchaser in its sole
discretion;  

(hh)   The Company and Mitsui shall have entered into mutual
releases of all obligations and claims, other than those arising under the Stock
Purchase Agreement and except as otherwise specified in Section 3.1(hh),
and all Liens held by Mitsui on any property of the Company shall have been
released, all such releases to have been in form and substance acceptable to
Purchaser;  

(ii)   Purchaser shall have received a copy of a payoff letter
from Mitsui in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Stock
Purchase Agreement;  

(jj)   The Company shall not have made any payment to obtain any
third party consent or induce any Third-Party Action (as defined in this
Agreement) without obtaining Purchaser s prior written approval;
and  

(kk)   The Company and Mitsui shall not have entered into any
new agreements since the execution of the Stock Purchase Agreement other than
the agreements executed on the Closing Date and referred to in Schedule
4.28.  

ARTICLE IV 
 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF COMPANY    

In order to induce Purchaser to enter into this Agreement, Company represents
and warrants as of the date hereof that, except as set forth in the Disclosure
Statement with a specific reference to the Section of this Article IV affected
thereby:   

4.1  Due Organization.  Company is a duly organized and validly
existing corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Nevada and
is duly qualified to conduct business as a foreign corporation in all
jurisdictions where its failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on
its business, operations, Assets, prospects, or condition (financial or other).
Each of Company s Subsidiaries is a duly organized and validly existing
corporation in good standing under the laws of the state of its incorporation
and is duly qualified to conduct business as a foreign corporation in all
jurisdictions where its failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on
the business, operations, Assets, prospects, or condition (financial or
otherwise) of Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.   

4.2  Organization, Standing, and Qualification.  Set forth in
the Disclosure Statement is a complete and accurate list for Company and its
Subsidiaries, showing: (a) the jurisdiction of their incorporation; (b) the
number of shares of each class of common and preferred stock authorized for
each; and (c) the number outstanding and the percentage of the outstanding
shares of each such class owned (directly or indirectly) by one or more Persons.
All of the outstanding capital stock of each of Company s Subsidiaries has
been duly authorized and validly issued and is fully paid and nonassessable.

4.3  Requisite Power.  Company has all requisite corporate
power to execute and deliver this Agreement, the Note, and the Ancillary
Documents to which it is a party and to sell the Note as provided for in this
Agreement. Company has full power and authority to own, lease and operate its
Assets and to carry on the business in which it is engaged. Company and each of
its Subsidiaries have all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents, and
approvals necessary to own and operate their respective Assets and to carry on
their respective businesses as now conducted and as proposed to be conducted,
other than licenses, authorizations, consents, and approvals which are not
currently required or the failure to obtain which would not have a material
adverse effect on the business, operations, Assets, prospects, or condition
(financial or other) of Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. The
execution, delivery, and performance of this Agreement, the Note and the
Ancillary Documents to which Company is a party have been duly authorized by
Company s board of directors and all necessary corporate action in respect
thereof has been taken, and the execution, delivery, and performance thereof do
not require any consent or approval of the stockholders of Company or any third
Person which has not been obtained.   

4.4  Binding Agreements.  This Agreement has been duly executed
and delivered by Company and constitutes, and the note and the Ancillary
Documents, when executed and delivered by Company, will constitute, the legal,
valid, and binding obligations of Company, enforceable against Company in
accordance with its or their, as applicable, terms, except as the enforceability
hereof or thereof may be affected by: (a) bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, or
similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors  rights generally; (b)
the limitation of certain remedies by certain equitable principles of general
applicability; and (c) the fact that the rights to indemnification thereunder
may be limited by applicable laws (including federal or state securities laws).

4.5  Other Agreements.  The execution, delivery, and performance
by Company of this Agreement, the Note, and the Ancillary Documents do not and
will not: (a) violate (i) any provision of any material law, rule, or regulation
of any jurisdiction binding on Company or any of its Subsidiaries; (ii) any
material order of any Governmental Agency, court, arbitration board, or tribunal
binding on Company or any of its Subsidiaries; or (iii) the certificate of
incorporation or bylaws of Company or any of its Subsidiaries; or (b) result in
the breach of, constitute (with the giving of notice or the lapse of time) a
default under, contravene any provisions of, or result in the creation of any
Lien (other than a Permitted Lien) upon any of the Assets owned by Company or
any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to, or result in acceleration or right of
acceleration of any obligations under, any Contractual Obligation of Company or
any of its Subsidiaries.   

4.6  Litigation; Adverse Facts.  There is no action, suit,
proceeding, or arbitration at law or in equity, or before or by any governmental
department, commission, board, bureau, agency, or instrumentality, domestic or
foreign, pending or, to the knowledge of Company, threatened by or against or
affecting, Company or any of its Subsidiaries which could reasonably be expected
to result in any material adverse change in the business, operations, Assets,
prospects, or condition (financial or otherwise) of Company and its
Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or could reasonably be expected to materially
adversely affect Company s ability to perform its obligations hereunder,
under the Notes or the Ancillary Documents. Neither Company nor any of its
Subsidiaries is: (a) in violation of any applicable law in a manner which could
reasonably be expected to materially adversely affect the business, operations,
Assets, prospects, or condition (financial or otherwise) of Company and its
Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; or (b) subject to or in default with respect to
any final judgment, writ, injunction, decree, rule, or regulation of any court
or of any governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency, or
instrumentality, domestic or foreign, in a manner which could reasonably be
expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, Assets,
prospects, or condition (financial or otherwise) of Company and its
Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. There is no action, suit, proceeding or, to the
best of Company s knowledge or belief, investigation pending or, to the
best of Company s knowledge or belief, threatened against or affecting,
Company or any of its Subsidiaries, which questions the validity or the
enforceability of this Agreement, the Note or the Ancillary Documents.

4.7  Consents.  Other than such as may have
previously been obtained, filed, or given, as applicable, no consent, license,
permit, approval, or authorization of, exemption by, notice to, report to, or
registration, filing, or declaration with, any Governmental Agency or agency or
any Person is required in connection with the execution, delivery, and
performance by Company of this Agreement, the Note, or the Ancillary Documents
to which it is a party.   

4.8  Financial Condition.  Company has delivered to Purchaser
the balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 1997, June 30,
1997 and December 31, 1996, and the related statements of income and
changes in financial position for the period ended December 31, 1997, the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1997 and the period ended December 30,
1996. Such statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP (subject, in the
case of interim financial statements, to normal year-end adjustments) and fairly
present the financial position of the Company as of and at the respective dates
thereof, and the results of operations and changes in financial position of the
Company for the period then ended.   

4.9  Title to Assets; Liens.  Except for Permitted Liens, all of
the Assets of Company and its Subsidiaries are free from all Liens of any nature
whatsoever. Except for Permitted Liens, Company and its Subsidiaries have good
and marketable title to all of the Assets reflected in their books and records
as being owned by them and experience quiet enjoyment of all Assets which are
material on a consolidated basis as to which they are the lessee. The Assets of
Company and its Subsidiaries are, in all material respects, adequate for the
currently contemplated conduct of the businesses of Company and its
Subsidiaries.   

4.10  Payment of Taxes.  All tax returns and reports of Company
and its Subsidiaries (or all taxpayers with which Company and its Subsidiaries
are or have been consolidated or combined with) required to be filed by any of
them have been timely filed (inclusive of any permitted extensions), and all
Taxes, assessments, fees, amounts required to be withheld and paid to a
Governmental Agency or regulatory authority, and other governmental charges upon
Company and its Subsidiaries, and upon their respective Assets, incomes, and
franchises which are due and payable have been paid, except to the extent that:
(a) the failure to file such returns or reports, or pay such Taxes, assessments,
fees, and other governmental charges, as applicable, would not be material to
the business, operations, Assets, prospects, or condition (financial or
otherwise) of Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; or (b) other than
with respect to Taxes, assessments, fees, or other governmental charges which
have become a federal tax Lien on Company s or any of its
Subsidiaries  Assets, such Taxes, assessments, Charges, or claims are being
contested, in good faith, by appropriate proceedings promptly instituted and
diligently conducted and an adequate reserve or other appropriate provision, if
any, shall have been made as required in order to be in conformity with GAAP.
Company does not know of any proposed, asserted, or assessed tax deficiency
against it or any of its Subsidiaries that could reasonably be expected to be
material to the business, operations, Assets, prospects, or condition (financial
or otherwise) of Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.   

4.11  Governmental Regulation.  Neither Company nor any of
Company s Subsidiaries is subject to regulation under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935, the Federal Power Act, the Interstate Commerce Act,
or the Investment Company Act of 1940 or to any statute or regulation limiting
its or their ability to incur Debt.   

4.12  Securities Activities.  Neither Company nor any of
Company s Subsidiaries is engaged principally, or as one of its or their
principal activities, in the business of extending, or arranging for the
extension of, credit for the purpose of  purchasing  or
 carrying  any margin stock or securities (within the meaning of
Regulations G, T, U, or X of the Federal Reserve Board). No part of the proceeds
from the sale of the Note will be used by Company for any purpose other than
those set forth in Section 5.6.   

4.13  Bank Credit Agreement.  Company has delivered to Purchaser
a full and accurate copy of the Bank Credit Agreement, the Bank Credit Agreement
is in full force and effect and Company is not in default under the Bank Credit
Agreement.   

4.14  Disclosure.  None of the representations or warranties
made by Company in this Agreement as of the date of such representations and
warranties and none of the statements contained in each exhibit or report or
financial information furnished by or on behalf of Company to Purchaser in
connection with this Agreement contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit any material fact (known to Company in the case of any document not
furnished by it) required to be stated therein or necessary to make the
statements contained therein, in light of the circumstances under which they
were made, not misleading. There is no fact known to Company (other than matters
of a general economic nature) which Company reasonably believes could be
expected to materially adversely affect the businesses, operations, Assets,
prospects, or condition (financial or otherwise) of Company and its
Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, which has not been disclosed herein or in such
other documents, certificates, and statements furnished to Purchaser for use in
connection with the transactions contemplated hereby. Company has furnished to
Purchaser certain financial information concerning Company and each of its
Subsidiaries, including estimates and projections of Company s and each of
its Subsidiaries  results of operations and financial position for and as
at the end of certain future periods. The aforementioned projections were
prepared with reasonable care on the basis of the assumptions stated therein and
said assumptions are reasonable in light of current business conditions. Company
has no reason to believe that any of the statements or conclusions included in
the aforementioned documents, certificates, and statements are not true and
correct in all material respects at the time provided. It is understood that no
representation or warranty is made by Company concerning any predictions,
forecasts, estimates, or any other analyses prepared by or on its or its
Subsidiaries  behalf, which are dependent on future events, except that
such predictions, forecasts, estimates, and analyses were prepared with
reasonable care on the basis of reasonable assumptions.   

4.15  Debt.  Neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has any
Debt outstanding on the date of this Agreement other than the Debt reflected in
the financial statements referred to in Section 4.8, in the Disclosure
Statement, or otherwise permitted under Section 6.1. After the Closing
Date, Company and its Subsidiaries will not have any Debt outstanding other than
the Debt permitted under Section 6.1.   

4.16  Intellectual Property.  Company and its Subsidiaries have
all necessary and material trademarks, trade names, trade name rights,
copyrights, patents, patent rights, permits, franchises, and licenses to conduct
their respective businesses and to operate their respective properties as now
conducted, and as currently contemplated to be conducted, without known conflict
with the rights of others, and all of same are valid and subsisting, except
where such lack of validity or existence or any such conflict would not have a
material adverse effect on the business, operations, Assets, prospects, or
condition (financial or otherwise) of Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a
whole. The Disclosure Statement contains a complete and accurate listing of all
of Company s and its Subsidiaries  material trademarks, service marks,
copyrights, and patents, and the date and place of registration thereof. The
consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not alter
or impair any of such rights of Company or any of its Subsidiaries. Except as
disclosed in the Disclosure Statement, neither Company nor any of its
Subsidiaries has been charged or, to the best of the Company s knowledge,
is threatened to be charged with any infringement of, nor has any of them
infringed, on any unexpired trademark, trademark registration, trade name,
patent, copyright, copyright registration or other proprietary right of any
Person which charge or threat could reasonably be expected to have a material
adverse effect on the businesses, operations, Assets, prospects, or condition
(financial or otherwise) of Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.

4.17  Burdensome Agreements.  Neither Company nor any of its
Subsidiaries is a party to any unusual or unduly burdensome agreement or
undertaking, or is subject to any unusual or unduly burdensome court order,
writ, injunction, or decree of any court or governmental instrumentality,
domestic or foreign, which materially and adversely affects the businesses,
Assets, operations, prospects, or condition (financial or otherwise) of Company
and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.   

4.18  Existing Defaults.  Neither Company nor any of its
Subsidiaries is in default under any material term of any Contractual Obligation
to which it is a party, the effect of which could reasonably be expected to have
a material adverse effect on the businesses, operations, Assets, prospects, or
condition (financial or otherwise) of Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a
whole. Neither Company nor any of Company s Subsidiaries is in violation of
any law, ordinance, rule, or regulation to which it or any of its Assets is
subject, the failure to comply with which could reasonably be expected to have a
material adverse effect on the businesses, operations, Assets, prospects, or
condition (financial or otherwise) of Company or its Subsidiaries, taken as a
whole.   

4.19  Leases.  Company and its Subsidiaries enjoy peaceful and
undisturbed possession under all of the leases to which they are a party or
under which they are operating, and which are material to the business of
Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. All such leases are valid and
subsisting and, to the best of Company s knowledge and belief, no material
default by Company or its Subsidiaries exists under any of them.   

4.20  Fire, Explosion, and Labor Disputes.  Neither the
businesses nor the Assets nor the operations of Company or any of its
Subsidiaries are presently affected by any fire, explosion, accident, strike,
lockout, or other labor dispute, drought, storm, hail, earthquake, embargo, act
of God or of the public enemy, or other casualty (irrespective of whether
covered by insurance), which could reasonably be expected to materially and
adversely affect the businesses, operations, Assets, prospects, or condition
(financial or otherwise) of Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.

4.21  No Partnerships.  Neither Company nor any Subsidiary of
Company is a partner in any partnership or a joint venturer in any joint
venture.  

4.22  Employment Agreements and Relations.  Except as set forth
in the Disclosure Statement, neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is a
party to any employment agreement or collective bargaining agreement. Neither
Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has made, obligated itself to make, renewed,
extended, or otherwise modified or amended any previous agreement to make, any
excess parachute payment as defined in   280G of the Code. Except as
set forth in the Disclosure Statement, to the best knowledge of Company, during
the five (5) years preceding the Closing Date there was (or were) no: (a)
attempt by any union or other labor organization to organize any employees of
Company or any of its Subsidiaries; (b) strikes or shutdowns resulting from
labor activity; or (c) concerted work stoppages or concerted slowdowns of any
nature or length of time, at any plant or other facility owned or operated by
Company.   

4.23  Insurance.  The Disclosure Statement contains a complete
and accurate list, as of the Closing Date, of all insurance maintained by
Company or any of its Subsidiaries, including fire, public liability, property
damage, products liability, and workmen s compensation insurance. Company
and each of its Subsidiaries maintain such insurance with insurers duly licensed
in the applicable jurisdictions, in such amounts and against such risks and
losses as are reasonable for their businesses and Assets. All such insurance is
in full force and effect and all premiums with respect thereto have been paid to
the date hereof or paid in accordance with payment schedules previously
applicable thereto.   

4.24  Environmental Matters.  Except as set forth in the
Disclosure Statement and except to the extent that no reasonable possibility
exists that the failure of the following to be true and correct would result in
a liability of Company or its Subsidiaries that is material in amount, (a) to
the best knowledge of Company, the Assets and operations of Company and each of
its Subsidiaries comply in all respects with all applicable Environmental
Protection Statutes; (b) none of the Assets or operations of Company or any of
its Subsidiaries is subject to any judicial or administrative proceeding
alleging the violation of any Environmental Protection Statute; (c) none of the
Assets or operations of Company or any of its Subsidiaries is the subject of any
federal or state investigation concerning any use or release of any Hazardous
Substance or Hazardous Waste; (d) neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries,
nor to the best knowledge of Company, any predecessor of Company, has filed any
notice under any federal or state law indicating past or present treatment,
storage or disposal of Hazardous Waste or reporting a spill or release of a
Hazardous Substance into the Environment; (e) to the best knowledge of Company,
neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has any contingent liability in
connection with any release of any Hazardous Substance or Hazardous Waste into
the Environment and no release which could require remediation has occurred; (f)
none of Company s or any of its Subsidiaries  operations involve the
generation, transportation, treatment, storage, or disposal of Hazardous
Substances or Hazardous Waste (other than in the normal course of and incidental
to any manufacturing process); (g) neither Company nor any of its Subsidiaries
has disposed of any Hazardous Substance or Hazardous Waste in, on or about any
premises owned, leased, or used by Company or any of its Subsidiaries and, to
the best of Company s knowledge, neither has any lessee, prior owner, or
other Person; (h) except as set forth in the Disclosure Statement, no surface
impoundments or, to the best of Company s knowledge, underground storage
tanks are located in, on or about any of the premises owned, leased, or used by
Company or any of its Subsidiaries; and (i) no lien in favor of any Governmental
Agency for (A) any liability under Environmental Protection Statutes, or (B)
damages arising from or costs incurred by such Governmental Agency in response
to a release of any Hazardous Substance or Hazardous Waste into the Environment
has been filed or attached to any of the premises owned, leased, or used by
Company or any of its Subsidiaries.   

4.25  Contracts.  The Disclosure Statement contains a complete
and accurate list, as of the Closing Date, of each contract or other commitment
of Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than tile contracts or other
commitments to which the Purchaser is a party) evidencing an obligation of the
Company in excess of $100,000 or the performance of which by its terms will not
be completed within one (1) year showing for each contract or other commitment
the amount, the date of such contract or the date such commitment was incurred,
the Person or Persons party to such contract or commitment, and the anticipated
completion date of the performance. Each contract or other commitment of Company
or any of its Subsidiaries listed was in effect as of the Closing Date and
performance by the parties to all such contracts or other commitments would not
have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, Assets, prospects,
or condition (financial or otherwise) of Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as
a whole.   

4.26  Commitments.  No outstanding purchase commitment by
Company or any of its Subsidiaries is materially in excess of the normal,
ordinary and usual requirements of their respective businesses, nor is any such
purchase commitment at a price or prices materially in excess of market prices
existing at the time such commitment was made or upon terms materially different
from past practices.   

4.27  No Default.  No Event of Default or Unmatured Event of
Default has occurred and is continuing.  

4.28  Mitsui Documents.  Since the execution of the Stock
Purchase Agreement, the Company and Mitsui shall not have entered into any
agreements other than those disclosed on Schedule 4.28 or other documents
approved by the Purchaser.   

4.29  Solvency, Etc.  After giving effect to the consummation
of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Purchaser documents described
in Section 4.28, the Company s Assets, at a fair valuation, will exceed the sum of
its debts and the Company will be able to pay its debts as they mature and will not have
an unreasonably small capital or have remaining Assets unreasonably small in relation to
its business or transactions.   

4.30  Due Diligence.  The documents and materials supplied by
the Company to Purchaser or Purchaser s agents for the purpose of
conducting the due diligence review constitute all material documents and are
either original documents or true, correct and complete copies of the original
documents. The Company acknowledges and agrees that the provision of these due
diligence materials in no way lessens or negates the Purchaser s reliance
on the Company s representations and warranties.   

4.31  Related Agreements.  The only material agreements to which
both Company and Mitsui are parties and from which company must be released in
order to effect the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Stock
Purchase Agreement are set forth in Section 1.6 of the Stock Purchase Agreement.

4.32  Third-Party Action.  Except those Third Party Actions
listed in Schedule 4.32, the Company requires no Third-Party Action in
order to consummate the transaction contemplated by this Agreement and the Stock
Purchase Agreement without thereby causing any breach, acceleration or
imposition of a Lien under any contract to which the Company is a party or by
which the Company or its property is bound.   

ARTICLE V 
 
AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS OF COMPANY    

Company covenants and agrees that, until payment in full of the Note, Company
shall perform each and all of the following:   

5.1  Corporate Existence.  Except as otherwise permitted by
Section 6.2, Company shall and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to preserve
and keep in full force and effect, at all times, its and their corporate
existence and qualifications necessary for the conduct of its business.

5.2  Maintenance of Assets.  Company shall and shall cause each
of its Subsidiaries to maintain or cause to be maintained in good repair,
working order, and condition all of those Assets useful or necessary to its
businesses or the businesses of each of its Subsidiaries or which are used in
connection therewith or related thereto, except for: (i) Assets which are
lost, stolen or damaged beyond economic repair and with respect to which the
Company is compensated by a lessee or other third party; and (ii) Assets
which in the aggregate are not material to the business or operations of
Company, and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. From time to time, Company
shall make or cause to be made all appropriate repairs, renewals, and
replacements thereto and thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Company and its
Subsidiaries shall not be required to comply with the requirements of this
Section 5.2 to the extent that compliance therewith would not be economical
and the failure to so comply could not reasonably be expected to materially
adversely affect the business, operations, Assets, prospects, or condition
(financial or otherwise) of Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.

5.3  Compliance with Laws.  Company shall and shall cause each
of its Subsidiaries to exercise all due diligence in order to comply in all
respects with the requirements of all applicable laws (including the Exchange
Act and all Environmental Protection Statutes), rules, regulations, and orders
of any Governmental Agency, noncompliance with which could reasonably be
expected to materially adversely affect the businesses, Assets, operations,
prospects, or condition (financial or otherwise) of Company and its
Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; provided, however, that no such law, rule,
regulation, or order of any Governmental Agency need be complied with if the
same is being contested, in good faith, by appropriate proceedings promptly
instituted and diligently conducted.   

5.4  Senior Debt.  Company will promptly provide (or cause the
Representative of the Senior Debt to provide) to all Noteholders all written
notices sent to Company from any holder (or Representative) of Senior Debt with
respect to the Bank Credit Agreement. Company will also promptly provide to all
Noteholders all material written notices sent by Company to any holder (or
Representative) of Senior Debt with respect to the Bank Credit Agreement.

5.5  Further Assurances.  At any time or from time to time upon
the request of Purchaser, Company shall execute and deliver such further
documents and do such other acts and things as Purchaser may reasonably request
in order to effect fully the purpose of this Agreement, the Note, or the
Ancillary Documents and to provide for repayment of the principal and interest
due under the Note in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Note.

5.6  Use of Proceeds.  Company shall use the proceeds from the
sale of the Note solely for the purposes set forth in the certificate delivered
pursuant to Section 3.1(b).   

5.7  Accounting Records and Inspection.  Company shall and shall
cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain adequate financial and accounting
books and records in accordance with sound business practices and GAAP
consistently applied and permit any representative of any Noteholder, at any
time during usual business hours, to inspect, audit, and examine such books and
records and to make copies and take extracts therefrom, and discuss its and
their affairs, financing, and accounts with its or their officers and
independent public accountants. Company shall and shall cause each of its
Subsidiaries to furnish each Noteholder with any information reasonably
requested by it regarding Company s or any of its Subsidiaries 
businesses or finances promptly upon such Noteholder s request. Company
shall and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to permit those Persons
designated by any Noteholder to visit and inspect any of the assets of company
or any of its Subsidiaries, upon notice and as often as may be reasonably
requested.   

5.8  Financial Statements and Other Information.  Company shall
furnish each Noteholder:  

(a)   as soon as practicable and, in any event, within
forty-five (45) calendar days after the close of each calendar month and
forty-five (45) calendar days after the close of each fiscal quarter in each
fiscal year of Company: (i) a consolidated statement of stockholders 
equity and a consolidated statement of changes in financial position of Company
and its Subsidiaries for such monthly or quarterly period, as applicable;
(ii) consolidated income statements of Company and its Subsidiaries for
such monthly or quarterly period, as applicable; and (iii) consolidated
balance sheets of Company and each of its Subsidiaries as of the end of such
monthly or quarterly period, as applicable, each setting forth in comparative
form, if applicable, the corresponding figures for the corresponding periods of
the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, subject to year-end audit
adjustments and certified by the chief financial officer of Company to have been
prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied;  

(b)   as soon as practicable and, in any event, within one
hundred and twenty (120) calendar days after the close of each fiscal year of
Company, a copy of the annual audited report for such year for Company and its
Subsidiaries, including therein: (i) a consolidated statement of
stockholders  equity and a consolidated statement of changes in financial
position of Company and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year; (ii) a
consolidated income statement of Company and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal
year; and (iii) consolidated and consolidating (based upon business
segments) balance sheets of Company and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such
fiscal year, each setting forth in comparative form, if applicable, the
corresponding figures for the previous year, all in reasonable detail; the
consolidated income statements and balance sheets shall be audited by
independent, nationally recognized, certified public accountants, and certified,
without a  going concern  qualification or other qualification or
exception of similar gravity or any qualification arising out of the scope of
the audit, by such accountants to have been prepared in accordance with GAAP,
consistently applied, together with a certificate of such accounting firm to
Purchaser stating that, in the ordinary and usual course of the regular audit of
the business of Company and each of its Subsidiaries, which audit was conducted
by such accounting firm in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, such accounting firm has obtained no knowledge that an Event of
Default or an Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, or if,
in the opinion of such accounting firm, an Event of Default or an Unmatured
Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the nature
thereof; provided, however, that such accountants shall not be liable by reason
of any failure to obtain knowledge of any such Event of Default or Unmatured
Event of Default that would not be disclosed in the course of their audit
examination; and stating that, based on their audit examination, nothing has
come to their attention which causes them to believe that the information
contained in the certificates delivered therewith pursuant to
Section 5.8(c) is not correct;  

(c)   contemporaneously with each quarterly and year-end
financial report required by the foregoing paragraphs (a) and (b), a duly
executed Officer s Compliance Certificate, executed by the chief financial
officer on behalf of Company and stating that the chief financial officer of
Company has individually reviewed the provisions of this Agreement, the
Ancillary Documents, and the Note (such certificate shall contain the
calculations and other details necessary to demonstrate Company s
compliance with Section 6.1), and that a review of the activities of
Company and each of its Subsidiaries during such year or quarterly period, as
the case may be, has been made by or under such individual s supervision,
with a view to determining whether Company has fulfilled all of its obligations
under this Agreement, the Ancillary Documents, and the Note, and that Company
has observed and performed each undertaking contained in this Agreement, the
Ancillary Documents, and the Note and that Company is not in default in the
observance or performance of any of the provisions hereof or thereof, or if
Company shall be so in default, specifying all such defaults and events of which
such individual may have knowledge or belief and stating the reasons for any
material variance from any Company prepared budget or projections;  

(d)   promptly after sending or making available or filing of
the same, copies of all reports, agenda (and attachments), and minutes of the
meetings of the board of Company or any of its Subsidiaries which are sent or
made available to its (or their) directors, as such, and copies of all reports,
proxy statements, and financial statements that Company or any of its
Subsidiaries sends or makes available to its shareholders;  

(e)   notice, as soon as possible and, in any event, within five
(5) calendar days after Company has knowledge, of: (i) the occurrence of
any Event of Default or any Unmatured Event of Default; or (ii) any default
or event of default as defined in any evidence of Debt of Company or any of its
Subsidiaries or under any agreement, indenture, or other instrument under which
such Debt has been issued or incurred, irrespective of whether such Debt is
accelerated or such default waived. In either event, Company shall also supply
Purchaser with a statement from Company s chief financial officer setting
forth the details thereof and the action which Company proposes to take with
respect thereto;  

(f)   as soon as available, any written report pertaining to
material items in respect of Company s internal control matters submitted
to Company by its independent accountants in connection with each annual or
interim special audit of the financial condition of Company or its
Subsidiaries;  

(g)   promptly, upon their becoming available, copies of any
orders in any proceedings to which Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a
party, issued by any Governmental Agency having jurisdiction over Company or any
of its Subsidiaries;  

(h)   promptly upon becoming aware of any Person s overtly
seeking to obtain or overtly threatening to seek to obtain a decree or order for
relief with respect to Company or any of its Subsidiaries in an involuntary case
under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, or other similar law now or
hereafter in effect, a written notice thereof specifying what action Company or
such Subsidiary is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto;  

(i)   promptly, copies of all amendments to the certificate or
articles of incorporation or bylaws of Company or any of its
Subsidiaries;  

(j)   prompt notice of all legal or arbitral proceedings, and
all proceedings by or before any governmental or regulatory authority or agency,
affecting Company or any of its Subsidiaries, which, if adversely determined,
could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business,
operations, Assets, prospects, or condition (financial or otherwise) of Company
and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or on the timely payment of the
principal of or interest on the Note or the enforceability of this Agreement,
the Ancillary Documents, or the Note, or the rights and remedies of Purchaser
hereunder (unless in each case Company has made a determination that there is no
significant likelihood of such proceedings being adversely determined in a
material amount);  

(k)   promptly, and in any event within thirty (30) calendar
days after the receipt thereof, a copy of any notice, summons, citation,
directive, letter, or other form of communication from the EPA, or any other
Governmental Agency, in any way concerning any action or omission on the part of
Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with Hazardous Waste or
Hazardous Substances, or concerning the filing of a Lien upon, against, or in
connection with Company, its Subsidiaries, or any of their Assets, in connection
with   9507 of the Code;  

(l)   immediate notice of any Event of Loss in excess of $20,000
(as defined in the Bank Credit Agreement);  

(m)   the documents required to be delivered to the Banks under
Section 8.4(i) of the Bank Credit Agreement, at the same time they are
delivered to the Banks; and  

(n)   promptly, such other information and data with respect to
Company or any of its Subsidiaries as from time to time may be reasonably
requested by Purchaser.  

ARTICLE VI 
 NEGATIVE COVENANTS OF COMPANY    

Company covenants and agrees that, until payment in full of the Note, it shall
and shall cause its Subsidiaries to perform each and all of the following:

6.1  Financial Covenants.    

(a)   Leverage Ratio. The Company will not permit the Leverage
Ratio at any time during any period set forth in the table below to exceed the
ratio set forth opposite such period:  

(b)   Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net Worth. Company will not
permit Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net Worth at any time to be less than the
sum of (i) $32,000,000 plus (ii) fifty percent (50%) of positive
Consolidated Net Income for each fiscal quarter ending after April 1, 1998
(with no deductions for any quarter in which there is a net loss).  

(c)   Total Debt Service Coverage. The Company will not permit
the ratio of (i) Consolidated Operating Cash Flow for any period of four
consecutive fiscal quarters, as measured on the last day of each fiscal quarter
(the  Computation Date ) to (ii) Consolidated Total Debt Service
for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the Computation
Date (the  Debt Coverage Ratio ), to be less than 1.00:1.00  

(d)   Interest Coverage. The Company will not permit the ratio
of (a) Earnings Before Interest and Taxes to (b) Consolidated Total
Interest Expense for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending
during any period described in the table set forth below measured on each
Computation Date, to be less than the ratio set forth opposite such period in
such table:  

6.2  Restriction on Fundamental Changes.  Company shall not
consolidate with or merge with or into any other person, or convey, transfer, or
lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person,
unless: (i) either (A) Company shall be the continuing corporation, or (B)
the Person (if other than Company) formed by such consolidation or into which
Company is merged or which acquires by conveyance, transfer, or lease the
properties and assets of Company substantially as an entirety (1) shall be a
corporation, partnership, or trust organized and validly existing under the laws
of the United States or any state thereof, or the District of Columbia, and (2)
shall expressly assume the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
premium, if any, and interest on the Note, and the performance and the
observances of each of the covenants of this Agreement, on the part of Company
to be performed or observed; (ii) immediately after giving effect to such
transaction (treating any Debt not previously an obligation of Company or a
Subsidiary of Company which becomes an obligation of Company or a Subsidiary of
the Company in connection with or as a result of such transaction as having
being incurred at the time of such transaction), no Event of Default or
Unmatured Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(iii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, on a pro forma
basis, the Consolidated Tangible Net Worth of Company (in the case of clause
(A) of subsection (i) above) or such Person (in the case of
clause (B) of subsection (i) above) shall not be less than the
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth of Company immediately prior to such
transaction, except that:   

(a)   This Section 6.2 shall not prohibit the Company and
its Subsidiaries from selling Assets in the ordinary and usual course of
business or by involuntary sale and selling or disposing of Assets of de minimis
value; and  

(b)   Wholly-owned Subsidiaries of Company may be merged or
consolidated with each other or with Company so long as, in the latter case,
Company is the surviving corporation.  

6.3  Investments.  Company shall not and shall not permit any of
its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, make or own any Investment in any
Person, except:  

(a)   Company and each of its Subsidiaries may make and own
Investments in:  

(i)   marketable direct obligations issued or unconditionally
guaranteed by the government of Japan or the United States of America or issued
by any agency thereof and backed by the full faith and credit of Japan or the
United States of America, in each case maturing within one (1) year from the
date of acquisition thereof;  

(ii)   marketable direct obligations issued by any state of the
United States of America or any political subdivision of any such state or any
public instrumentality thereof maturing within one (1) year from the date
of acquisition thereof and, at the time of acquisition, having the highest
rating obtainable from either Standard   Poor s Corporation or
Moody s Investors Service, Inc.;  

(iii)   commercial paper maturing no more than one (1) year
from the date of creation thereof and, at the time of acquisition, having the
highest rating obtainable from either Standard   Poor s Corporation or
Moody s Investors Service, Inc;  

(iv)   certificates of deposit, repurchase agreements, or
bankers  acceptances maturing within one (1) year from the date of
acquisition thereof issued by any bank organized under the laws of the United
States of America or any state thereof or the District of Columbia which has
combined capital and surplus of not less than One Billion Dollars
($1,000,000,000); and  

(v)   money market funds organized under the laws of the United
States of America or any state thereof that invest solely in any of the
Investments permitted under clauses (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this
subsection (a).  

(b)   Company and each of its Subsidiaries may maintain any
Investment extant on the date hereof, which Investments are set forth in the
Disclosure Statement;  

(c)   Company and each of its Subsidiaries may, in the ordinary
and usual course of business consistent with past practices, maintain
Investments constituting commercial demand deposit accounts;  

(d)    Company may maintain Investments in its Subsidiaries
existing as of the date hereof; and  

(e)   Company may make Investments consisting of advances by the
Company to employees pursuant to the Loan Program provided that the aggregate
amount of such Investments shall not exceed, at any time, $2,000,000 plus the
amount of interest on any such loans added to principal.  

6.4  Conduct of Business.  Company shall not and shall not permit any
of its Subsidiaries to engage in any business other than the lines of businesses
in which they, taken as a whole, are engaged as of the Closing Date, the
business contemplated under the Stock Purchase Agreement and related documents
or any businesses or activities substantially similar or related thereto.

6.5  Partnerships.  Except
as set forth in the Disclosure Statement, and except to the extent permitted by Section 6.3
hereof, Company shall not and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to become a
general or limited partner in any partnership or a joint venturer in any joint venture.    

6.6  Margin
Regulation.  No portion of the proceeds from the sale of the Note shall be used by Company
in any manner which might cause the sale of the Note, the application of such proceeds,
or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement to violate Regulations G, T, U, or X
of the Federal Reserve Board or any other regulation of such board or to violate the
Exchange Act.    

6.7  Shareholders  Agreement.  Company
shall not and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to violate any provision
of the Shareholders  Agreement among Company, Purchaser, and Hiromitsu
Ogawa.   

ARTICLE VII 
 EVENTS OF DEFAULT    

7.1  Events of Default.  The occurrence of any
one or more of the following events, acts, or occurrences shall constitute an
event of default ( Event of Default ) hereunder:   

(a)    Failure to Make Payments
When Due.  

(i)    Company shall fail to pay any amount owing hereunder or
under the Note with respect to the principal of the Note when such amount is
due, whether at stated maturity, as a result of a mandatory repayment
requirement, by acceleration, by notice of prepayment, or otherwise, and such
failure shall continue for a period of seven (7) days after written notice
thereof; or  

(ii)    Company shall fail to pay when due any amount owing
hereunder or under the Note with respect to interest or with respect to any
other amounts other than principal (including fees, costs, and expenses) payable
in connection herewith, and such failure shall continue for a period of seven
(7) days after written notice thereof; or  

(b)    Breach of Certain
Covenants.  

(i)   
Company shall fail to perform or comply fully with any covenant, term, or
condition contained in Article VI (other than Section 6.4); or  

(ii)    Company shall fail to perform or comply fully with any
covenant, term, or condition contained in this Agreement or any of the Ancillary
Documents and such failure shall not have been remedied or waived within twenty
(20) calendar days after receipt of notice from any Noteholder of such failure;
provided, however, that this clause (ii) shall not apply to the covenants,
terms or conditions referred to in clauses (a), (c), and (d) of this
Section 7.1 or subpart (i) of this clause (b); or  

(c)    Default in Other
Agreements.  

(i)   
Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall default (as principle, guarantor, or
other surety) in the payment of any principal when due (subject to any
applicable notice or grace period), whether at stated maturity or otherwise, of
any monetary obligation with respect to (howsoever designated) any Debt having
an aggregate principal amount in excess of $1,000,000, whether such Debt now
exists or shall hereafter be created, including but not limited to any such
default under the Bank Credit Agreement; or  

(ii)   
An event of default as defined in any mortgage, indenture, or any agreement,
document, or instrument evidencing any Interest Rate Protection Obligation of,
or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured
or evidenced, any Debt of, or Debt guaranteed by, Company or any of its
Subsidiaries, in each case, in excess of $1,000,000, whether such Debt now
exists or shall hereafter be created, including but not limited to an Event of
Default as defined in the Bank Credit Agreement (but excluding Events of Default
based on Section 10 of the Bank Credit Agreement and not resulting in
acceleration), shall occur, as a result of which the holder or holders thereof
or of any obligations issued thereunder accelerate the maturity thereof;
or  

(d)    Breach of Representation or
Warranty. Any financial statement, representation, warranty, or certification
made or furnished by Company under this Agreement or in any statement, document,
letter, or other writing or instrument furnished or delivered by or on behalf of
Company to any Purchaser pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or as
an inducement to Purchaser to enter into this Agreement shall, at any time,
prove to have been materially false, incorrect, or incomplete in any material
respect when made, effective, or reaffirmed, as the case may be; or  

(e)   
Involuntary Bankruptcy.  

(i)   
If an involuntary case seeking the liquidation or reorganization of Company
under Chapter 7 or Chapter 11, respectively, of the Bankruptcy Code or
any similar proceeding shall be commenced against Company under any other
applicable law and any of the following events occur: (1) Company consents
to the institution of the involuntary case or similar proceeding; (2) the
petition commencing the involuntary case or similar proceeding is not timely
controverted; (3) the petition commencing the involuntary case or similar
proceeding is not dismissed within sixty (60) calendar days of the date of the
filing thereof; (4) an interim trustee is appointed to take possession of
all or a substantial portion of the Assets or to operate all or any substantial
portion of the businesses of Company; or (5) an order for relief shall have
been issued or entered therein; or  

(ii)    A decree or order of a court having jurisdiction in the
premises for the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, sequestrator, custodian,
trustee, or other officer having similar powers over Company to take possession
of all or a substantial portion of the Assets of, or to operate all or a
substantial portion of the businesses of, Company shall have been entered and,
within sixty (60) calendar days from the date of entry, is not vacated,
discharged, or bonded against, or any similar relief shall be granted against
Company under any applicable federal or state law and, within sixty (60)
calendar days from the date of entry, is not vacated, discharged, or bonded
against; or  

(f)    Voluntary Bankruptcy.
Company shall institute a voluntary case seeking liquidation or reorganization
under Chapter 7 or Chapter 11, respectively, of the Bankruptcy Code;
or Company shall file a petition, answer, or complaint or shall otherwise
institute any similar proceeding under any other applicable law, or shall
consent thereto; or Company shall consent to the conversion of an involuntary
case to a voluntary case; or Company shall consent or acquiesce to the
appointment of a receiver, liquidator, sequestrator, custodian, trustee, or
other officer with similar powers to take possession of all or a substantial
portion of the Assets of, or to operate all or a substantial portion of, the
businesses of Company; or Company shall generally fail to pay debts as such
debts become due or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts
generally; or Company shall make a general assignment for the benefit of
creditors; or the board of directors of Company (or any committee thereof)
adopts any resolution or otherwise authorizes, in writing, action to approve any
of the foregoing; or  

(g)    Judgments and
Attachments.  

(i)   
Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall suffer any money judgment, writ, or
warrants of attachment, or similar process involving payment of money, in an
aggregate amount in excess of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) and such
judgment, writ, warrant, or similar process shall remain undischarged in
accordance with its terms and the enforcement thereof shall be unstayed and
either: (1) an enforcement proceeding shall have been commenced and be pending
by any creditor thereupon; or (2) there shall have been a period of thirty (30)
consecutive calendar days during which stays of such judgment, writ, warrant, or
similar process, by reason of pending appeals or otherwise, were not in effect;
or  

(ii)   
A judgment creditor shall obtain possession of any of the Assets of Company or
its Subsidiaries, which Assets constitute a material portion of the Assets of
Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, by any means, including levy,
distraint, replevin, or self-help;  

(h)    Dissolution. Any order,
judgment, or decree shall be entered decreeing the dissolution of Company and
such order shall remain undischarged or unstayed for a period in excess of
thirty (30) calendar days; or  

7.2
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.  The following provisions of this
Section 7.2 are subject to the terms of the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement.   

(a)    Acceleration of
Maturity.  

(i)   
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Sections
7.1(e) or 7.1(f)) occurs and is continuing, then and in every such case Required
Noteholders may declare the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Note
to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to Company and, if the
Bank Credit Agreement is in effect, to the Representative of the Senior Debt.
Upon any such declaration, such aggregate outstanding principal amount shall
become due and payable: (A) if the Bank Credit Agreement is not in effect or if
the declaration is based on an Event of Default under Section 7.1(a) or (b),
immediately; or (B) in other cases, upon the first to occur of:  

(1)    an acceleration under the
Bank Credit Agreement (written notice of which Company shall give to Purchaser
immediately upon the occurrence thereof);  

(2)    termination or expiration of a Remedy Blockage Period (as
defined in the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement) then in effect, if
any; or  

(3)    if no such Remedy Blockage Period is in effect, the
fifteenth (15th) day or, solely with respect to an Event of Default arising
under Section 7.1(b)(i), the forty-fifth (45th) day, as applicable, after
receipt by Company and by the Representative of the Senior Debt of such written
notice given hereunder;  

unless (in the absence of an acceleration under the Bank Credit
Agreement), on or prior to such fifteenth (15th) day, forty-fifth (45th) day or last day
of such Remedy Blockage Period, as applicable, Company shall have discharged or paid in
full the Debt, if any, that is the subject of such Event of Default or otherwise cured the
default relating to such Event of Default and shall have given written notice of such
discharge, payment, or cure to Purchaser (which notice, in the case of an Event of Default
specified in Sections 7.1(c) or 7.1(g), shall be countersigned by the holders of the
Debt that is the subject of such Event of Default or by a Representative for such
holders).   

(ii)   
If an Event of Default specified in Sections 7.1(e) or 7.1(f) occurs and is
continuing, then the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Note shall
ipso facto become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or
other act on the part of the Noteholders.  

(b)    Rescission and
Annulment.  

(i)   
At any time after such declaration of acceleration has been made and before a
judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the
Noteholders, the Required Noteholders, by written notice to Company, may rescind
and annul such declaration and its consequences if:  

(A)   
Company has paid or deposited with the Noteholders, in Dollars, a sum sufficient
to pay:  

(1)    all overdue interest on the Note;  

(2)    the principal of (and premium, if any, on) the Note which
have become due other than by such declaration of acceleration and interest
thereon at the rate set forth in the Note;  

(3)    to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful,
interest upon overdue interest at the rate set forth in the Note;  

(4)    any other amount which has become due hereunder, under the
Note or any Ancillary Documents other than by such declaration of acceleration
and interest applicable thereon; and  

(5)    all sums paid or advanced by each such Noteholder and the
reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of each such
Noteholder, its agents, and counsel; and  

(B)    all Events of Default, other than the non-payment of
principal of the Note which have become due solely by such declaration of
acceleration, have been cured or waived. No such rescission shall affect any
subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereon.  

(ii)    Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, in the event of
a declaration of acceleration in respect of the Note because an Event of Default
specified in Section 7.1(c) or 7.1(g) shall have occurred and be
continuing, such declaration of acceleration shall be automatically annulled if
the Debt that is the subject of such Event of Default has been discharged or
paid in full or if the holders thereof have rescinded their declaration of
acceleration in respect of such Debt or have rescinded their notification to
sell or dispose of the Assets of Company or its Subsidiaries, as applicable, and
written notice of such discharge, payment, or rescission, as the case may be,
shall have been given to each of the Noteholders by Company and by the holders
of such Debt or by a Representative for such holders within thirty (30) calendar
days after such declaration of acceleration in respect of the Note and prior to
the sale or other disposition of any Assets of Company or its Subsidiaries and
no other Event of Default has occurred during such thirty (30) calendar day
period which has not been cured or waived during such period.  

(c)    Effectiveness of Bank
Credit Agreement. Upon a determination by Company that the Bank Credit Agreement
is no longer in effect, Company shall promptly give each Noteholder written
notice thereof, which notice shall be countersigned by all of the holders of, or
the Representative of, the Senior Debt. Unless and until each Noteholder shall
have received such written notice with respect to the Bank Credit Agreement,
each Noteholder shall be entitled in all respect to assume that the Bank Credit
Agreement is in effect (unless each Noteholder shall have actual knowledge to
the contrary).  

7.3  Suits for Enforcement.  The following
provisions of this Section 7.3 are subject to the terms of the Subordination and
Intercreditor Agreement. At any time during the existence of an Event of Default
under this Agreement, the Noteholders may proceed to protect and enforce their
rights, either by suit in equity or by action at law, or both, whether for the
specific performance of any covenant, condition, or agreement contained in this
Agreement or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Agreement, or
proceed to enforce the payment of the Note or to enforce any other legal or
equitable right of the Noteholders. All payments received by any Noteholder
shall be applied, subject to the provisions of Article VIII, as follows: first,
to all costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys  fees) incurred
by the Noteholders in enforcing any Debt of Company hereunder or in collecting
any payments due hereunder, under the Note or under any Ancillary Document;
second, to accrued and unpaid interest on the Note; third, to the principal
amount of the Note outstanding; and fourth, to any other Debt of Company owing
to the Noteholders.   

7.4  Modifications or Waivers Under Bank Credit
Agreement.  In the event that Company shall seek a modification, amendment,
restatement, supplement, or waiver of the Bank Credit Agreement or any other
material agreement for the borrowing of money from, or the extension of credit
by, any institutional lender to which Company may be a party, Company shall,
simultaneously therewith, notify the Noteholders thereof and consult with the
Noteholders with respect thereto. Company shall have no obligation to obtain the
consent of the Noteholders to any such modification, amendment, restatement,
supplement or waiver except as may be required by the terms of the Subordination
and Intercreditor Agreement.   

ARTICLE VIII    

SUBORDINATION    

The rights of the Noteholders under this Agreement are subordinate in
accordance with and subject to the terms of the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement.   

ARTICLE IX    

PURCHASER S REPRESENTATIONS    

9.1  Investment Representation.  Purchaser hereby represents
that it is acquiring the Note for its own account and not with a view to the
public distribution or sale of same; provided, however, that, subject to
Section 11.8, the disposition of Purchaser s Note shall at all times
be within its exclusive control. Purchaser further represents that it is
acquiring the Note with its general Assets and not with the Assets of any
separate account in which any employee benefit plan has any interest. As used in
this Section, the terms  separate account  and  employee benefit
plan  shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in ERISA.

9.2  Participation in the Note.  Purchaser shall have the right
at any time to furnish one or more purchasers or potential purchasers of all or
any portion of such Purchaser s Note, or of a participation interest
therein, with any and all information concerning Company or its Subsidiaries,
which has been supplied by Company to Purchaser, if such purchaser or potential
purchaser shall have agreed, in writing, to keep confidential any of such
information which Company reasonably claims, in writing, to be confidential,
other than: (a) information previously filed with any Governmental Agency
and available to the public; (b) information previously published in any
public medium, from a source other than, directly or indirectly, that Purchaser;
and (c) information previously disclosed by Company to any Person not
associated with Company without a confidentiality agreement substantially
similar to the terms of this Section 9.2. Nothing in this Section 9.2
shall be construed to create or give rise to any fiduciary duty on the part of
Purchaser to Company.   

ARTICLE X 
 
EXPENSES AND INDEMNITIES    

10.1  Expenses.  If the transactions
contemplated hereby shall be consummated, Company hereby agrees to pay on
demand: (a) the reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses of Purchaser
incurred in connection with the negotiation, preparation, and execution of this
Agreement, the Note, the Ancillary Documents, and all other agreements,
instruments and documents contemplated hereby and thereby, and any amendments,
modifications, restatements, consents, or waivers hereto or thereto;
(b) the cost of delivering the Note to Purchaser pursuant to the provisions
of this Agreement; (c) the reasonable fees, expenses, and disbursements of
counsel and consultants to Purchaser in connection with the negotiation,
preparation, reproduction, execution, and delivery of this Agreement, the Note,
the Ancillary Documents and all other agreements, instruments, and documents
contemplated hereby and thereby, and any amendments, modifications,
restatements, or waivers hereto or thereto; (d) filing, recording,
publication, search, and title fees paid or incurred by or on behalf of
Purchaser in connection with the transactions contemplated by, and the
administration of, this Agreement, the Note, and the Ancillary Documents;
(e) the reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including reasonable
attorneys fees and expenses) incurred by Purchaser to correct any default or to
enforce any provision of this Agreement, the Note, or any of the Ancillary
Documents, or any other document or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby;
and (f) the reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including reasonable
attorneys  fees and expenses) incurred by Purchaser in connection with any
bankruptcy or other insolvency proceeding, reorganization, workout, composition,
or other creditor arrangement of Company or any of Company s Subsidiaries;
provided, however, that the fees, costs and expenses to be paid in connection
with clauses (a) through (d) hereof shall not exceed $30,000.00.   

10.2  Indemnity.  In addition to the payment of expenses
pursuant to Section 10.1, and irrespective of whether the transactions
contemplated hereby shall be consummated, Company hereby agrees to indemnify,
exonerate, pay, and hold harmless Purchaser, and any Noteholder, and the
officers, directors, employees, and agents of and counsel to Purchaser or such
Noteholders (collectively, the  Indemnitees  and individually, the
 Indemnitee ) from and against any and all liabilities, obligations,
losses, damages, penalties, actions, causes of action, judgments, suits, claims,
costs, expenses, of any kind or nature whatsoever, including the reasonable fees
and expenses of counsel to Indemnitees, in connection with any actual or
threatened investigative, administrative, or judicial proceeding (irrespective
of whether such Indemnitee shall be designated a party thereto) which may be
imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against such Indemnitee by any other Person
(other than Purchaser), in any manner relating to or arising out of this
Agreement, the use or intended use of the proceeds of the sale of the Note, or
the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (the
 Indemnified Liabilities  provided, however, that Company s
obligations to indemnify shall not extend to any losses, damages, liabilities,
actions, or claims arising as a result of the gross negligence, willful
misconduct, or unlawful conduct of an Indemnitee. Each Indemnitee shall promptly
notify Company of each event of which it has knowledge which may give rise to a
claim under the indemnification provisions of this Section 10.2. If any
investigative, judicial, or administrative proceeding arising from any of the
foregoing is brought against any Indemnitee, Company will resist and defend such
action, suit, or proceeding or cause the same to be resisted and defended by
counsel designated by Company (which counsel shall be reasonably satisfactory to
such Indemnitee). Such Indemnitee will use its best efforts to, cooperate in the
defense of any such action, suit, or proceeding. To the extent that the
undertaking to indemnify, pay, and hold harmless set forth in this Section 10.2
may be unenforceable because it is violative of any law or public policy,
Company shall make the maximum contribution to the payment and satisfaction of
each of the Indemnified Liabilities which is permissible under applicable law.
The obligations of Company under this Section 10.2 shall survive the termination
of this Agreement and the discharge of Company s other obligations
hereunder.   

ARTICLE XI    

MISCELLANEOUS    

11.1  Waivers; Modifications in Writing.  No failure or delay on
the part of Purchaser or any Noteholder in exercising any right, power,
privilege, or remedy under this Agreement, the Note or any of the Ancillary
Documents shall impair or operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or
partial exercise of any such right, power, privilege, or remedy preclude any
other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power,
privilege, or remedy. The waiver of any such right, power, privilege, or remedy
with respect to particular facts and circumstances shall not be deemed to be a
waiver with respect to other facts and circumstances. The remedies provided for
under this Agreement, the Note, or the Ancillary Documents are cumulative and
are not exclusive of any remedies that may be available to the Noteholders at
law, in equity, or otherwise. No amendment, modification, restatement,
supplement, termination, consent, or waiver of, or consent to any departure
from, any provision of this Agreement, the Note, or the Ancillary Documents
shall be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by or on
behalf of the Required Noteholders. Any amendment, modification, restatement,
supplement, termination, waiver, or consent effected in accordance with this
Section 11.1 shall be binding upon Purchaser, the holder at any time of the
Note, and Company to the extent that such Person or Persons have executed and
delivered same.   

Any waiver of any provision of this Agreement, the Note, or the Ancillary
Documents, and any consent to any departure by Company from the terms of any
provisions of this Agreement, the Note, or the Ancillary Documents shall be
effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which
given. In any event, no notice to, or demand on, Company shall entitle Company
to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances. The
provisions of this Section 11.1 are solely for the benefit of Purchaser, the
Noteholders and their successors and assigns and are not intended to benefit
Company, its Subsidiaries, their Affiliates, their successors and assigns, or
any other Person.   

11.2  Changes in Accounting Principles.  (a) If any changes
in accounting principles from those used in the preparation of the financial
statements referred to in this Agreement are hereafter occasioned by the
promulgation of rules, regulations, pronouncements, or opinions of, or required
by, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants (or successors thereto or agencies with similar
functions), or there shall occur any change in Company s or any of its
Subsidiaries  fiscal or tax years and, as a result of any such changes,
there shall result a change in the method of calculating any of the financial
covenants, negative covenants, standards, or other terms or conditions found in
this Agreement, or (b) if Company, for reasonable business purposes, shall
desire to change such accounting principles or the application thereof (which
change shall be consistent with accounting principles then in effect pursuant to
rules, regulations, pronouncements, or opinions of the Financial Accounting
Standards Board or the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants) and
such desired change would result in a change in the method of calculating any of
the financial covenants, negative covenants, or other terms and conditions found
in this Agreement, then the Noteholders and Company agree to enter into
negotiations in order to amend such provisions and the definition of
 GAAP  set forth in Section 1.1 so as to equitably reflect such
changes with the desired result that the criteria for evaluating the financial
condition and performance of Company and its Subsidiaries shall be the same
after such changes as if such changes had not been made.   

11.3  Confirmation.  Company and the Noteholders hereby agree
that, upon written request received from time to time by Company from any
Noteholder or by any Noteholder from Company, each will confirm to the other, in
writing, the aggregate unpaid principal amount then outstanding under the Note.
Each Noteholder hereby agrees, upon written request received by it from time to
time from Company, to make any Note held by it (including the schedule attached
thereto) available for reasonable inspection by Company at the office of such
Noteholder during such Noteholder s regular business hours.

11.4  Notices.  All notices, demands, instructions, and other
communications required or permitted to be given to, or made upon, any party
hereto shall be in writing and (except for financial statements and other
related informational documents to be furnished pursuant hereto which may be
sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid) shall be personally delivered or sent
by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or
by prepaid telex, TWX, telefacsimile and shall be deemed to be given for
purposes of this Agreement on the day that such writing is received by the
Person to whom it is to be sent pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
Unless otherwise specified in a notice sent or delivered in accordance with the
foregoing provisions of this Section 11.4, notices, demands, instructions, and
other communications in writing shall be given to or made upon the respective
parties hereto at their respective addresses (or to their respective telex, TWX,
or telefacsimile numbers) indicated below their signatures hereto.   

11.5  Transfers of Note.  Purchaser agrees that it will not
transfer the Note to a competitor of the Company or an affiliate of any
competitor of the Company, without the written consent of the Company. Subject
to the foregoing sentence in the event that Purchaser shall transfer the Note,
it shall promptly advise Company of such transfer; provided, however, that
Company shall be entitled conclusively to assume that no transfer of the Note
has been made by any holder unless and until Company shall have received written
notice to the contrary. Each transferee of the Note shall take such Note subject
to the provisions of this Agreement and to any request made, waiver, or consent
given, or other action taken under this Agreement and the Ancillary Documents
prior to the receipt by Company of written notice of such transfer and, except
as expressly otherwise provided in such notice, Company shall be entitled
conclusively to assume that the transferee named in such notice shall thereafter
be vested with all of the rights and powers of the payee of such Note arising
under this Agreement, such Note, the Ancillary Documents, and the other
agreements referred to herein. The foregoing is not meant to abrogate or modify,
and is subject to, the provisions of Section 11.8. Notwithstanding anything in
this Agreement to the contrary, no transfer of the Note or any interest in the
Note shall be made except as permitted under the Subordination and Intercreditor
Agreement.   

11.6  Headings, Date.  Article and section headings used in this
Agreement and the table of contents preceding this Agreement are for convenience
of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Agreement for any
other purpose or affect the construction of this Agreement. The date of this
Agreement is for reference purposes only, and is not necessarily the date it was
entered into.   

11.7  Execution in Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed
in any number of counterparts and by different parties on separate counterparts,
each of which counterparts, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed to
be an original and all of which counterparts, taken together, shall constitute
but one and the same Agreement. This Agreement shall become effective upon the
execution of a counterpart hereof by each of the parties hereto.   

11.8  Assignment and Participation.    

(a)    Subject to the limitations
set forth in the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement, Purchaser may make
one or more assignments of its interests in the Note to one or more assignees.
Each such assignee shall become a party to this Agreement upon: (i) the
execution of an amendment to this Agreement or the execution of a supplemental
assignment and acceptance agreement with the Purchaser and the assignee; and
(ii) the notification of Company by the assigning Purchaser of the identity
of the assignee, the amount of the Note assigned and the effective date of the
assignment.  

(b)    Subject to the limitations
of the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement, Purchaser may grant one or
more participations in its interest in the Note; provided, however, that: (i)
Purchaser shall not grant a participation in the Note to a competitor of the
Company or an affiliate of any competitor of the Company, without the written
consent of the Company; (ii) any such grant of a participation will be made in
compliance with all applicable state or federal laws, rules, and regulations;
(iii) Purchaser shall not grant any participation under which the participant
shall have rights to approve any amendment to or waiver of this Agreement, the
Ancillary Documents, or the Note, except to the extent such amendment or waiver
would: (1) extend the due date for payment of any amount respecting the Note in
which such participant is participating; (2) reduce the interest rate or the
amount of principal or fees applicable to the Note in which such participant is
participating. In the case of any participation, the participant shall not have
any rights under this Agreement or any of the other documents entered into in
connection herewith (the participant s rights against such Purchaser in
respect of such participation to be those set forth in the participation or
other agreement executed by Purchaser and the participant relating thereto) and
all Amounts payable to Purchaser hereunder shall be determined as if such
Purchaser had not sold such participation.  

11.9  Governing Law.  THIS AGREEMENT, THE NOTE, AND THE
ANCILLARY DOCUMENTS SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE BEEN MADE IN NEW YORK AND THE VALIDITY OF THIS
AGREEMENT, THE NOTE, AND THE ANCILLARY DOCUMENTS, AND THE CONSTRUCTION, INTERPRETATION,
AND ENFORCEMENT THEREOF, AND THE RIGHTS OF THE PARTIES THERETO SHALL BE DETERMINED UNDER,
GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO
PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.   

11.10  Severability of Provisions.  Any provision of this
Agreement, the Note, or the Ancillary Documents which is illegal, invalid, prohibited, or
unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the
extent of such illegality, invalidity, prohibition, or unenforceability without
invalidating or impairing the remaining provisions hereof or thereof or affecting the
validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction.   

11.11  Survival of Agreements, Representations, and Warranties. 
All agreements, representations, and warranties made herein shall survive the
execution and delivery of this Agreement, the execution and delivery of the Note
and the Ancillary Documents, and the purchase of the Note.   

11.12  Setoff.  In addition to any rights now or
hereafter granted under applicable law and not by way of limitation of any such
rights, any Noteholder is hereby authorized by Company at any time or from time
to time, upon the occurrence and during the continuation of any Event of
Default, without notice to Company or to any other Person, any such notice being
hereby expressly waived to the extent it may lawfully be so waived, subject to
the terms of the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement to set off or to
apply, any and all obligations of any kind at any time owing by such Noteholder
to or for the credit or the account of Company, against and on account of the
Debt of Company to such Noteholder under this Agreement and the Note, including
all claims of any nature or description arising out of or connected with this
Agreement, the Note, or the Ancillary Documents, and irrespective of whether
such Noteholder shall have made any demand under this Agreement.   

11.13  Independence of Covenants.  All covenants
under this Agreement shall be given independent effect so that if a particular
action or condition is not permitted by any one covenant, the fact that it would
be permitted by another covenant, by an exception thereto, or would otherwise be
within the limitations thereof, shall not avoid the occurrence of an Event of
Default or Unmatured Event of Default if such action is taken or condition
exists.   

11.14  Complete Agreement.  This Agreement,
together with the exhibits hereto, the Disclosure Statement, the Note, the
Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement, and the Ancillary Documents, is
intended by the parties hereto as a final expression of their agreement and is
intended as a complete statement of the terms and conditions of their agreement
with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this
Agreement to be executed and delivered.   

EXHIBIT A  

IT IS UNLAWFUL TO CONSUMMATE A SALE OR TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY, OR ANY
INTEREST THEREIN, OR TO RECEIVE ANY CONSIDERATION THEREFOR, WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE COMMISSIONER OF CORPORATIONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, EXCEPT AS
PERMITTED IN THE COMMISSIONER S RULES.   

SUBORDINATED SECURED NOTE  

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL,
INC., a Nevada corporation (the  Company ), hereby promises to pay to the order
of INTERPOOL, INC., a Delaware corporation (the  Purchaser ), at the office of
Purchaser at ________________ the principal sum of ___________ Dollars ($________), in
lawful money of the United States of America and in immediately available funds, in the
amounts and at the times provided by the Note Purchase Agreement hereinafter referred to,
and to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount from time to time outstanding on this
Note, at such office, in like money and funds, at the applicable rates and on the dates
provided in the Note Purchase Agreement.   

This Note is given under the Note Purchase Agreement, dated April __,
1998, between the Company and Purchaser (the  Note Purchase Agreement ), and
evidences the loan made by Purchaser thereunder. Capitalized terms used in this Note have
the respective meanings assigned to them in the Note Purchase Agreement. This Note (or the
original Note exchanged, directly or indirectly, for this Note or the original Note which
this Note, directly or indirectly, replaced) was issued on the Funding Date.   

Reference is made to the Note Purchase Agreement for provisions for
mandatory and optional prepayments of the principal of this Note and for the acceleration
of the maturity of this Note upon the occurrence of certain Events of Default specified
therein, and to the effect that the rate of interest which may be charged or collected by
Purchaser under the Note Purchase Agreement and this Note shall not exceed the maximum
rate permitted by applicable law.   

This Note is secured by, among other things, a Security Agreement dated as
of April __, 1998, between the Company and Purchaser, as amended from time to time.   

This Note is subordinated, to the extent and in the manner set forth in
that certain Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement dated as of _____________, 1998, as
amended from time to time, and described in Article VIII of the Note Purchase
Agreement, to the  Senior Debt,  as that term is defined in the Note Purchase
Agreement.   

The amount and date of the loan made by Purchaser and all repayments of
the principal thereof shall be recorded by Purchaser in its records and, prior to any
transfer of this Note, endorsed by Purchaser on the reverse of this Note or on a schedule
attached to this Note or any continuation thereof; provided that any failure by Purchaser
to make any such endorsement shall not affect the obligations of the Company under the
Note Purchase Agreement and this Note.   

Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Note Purchase Agreement, the
Company waives notice, presentment, demand, protest and any other notice or formality of
any kind with respect to this Note. This Note shall be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.   

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS 
INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
a Nevada corporation 

By:                

Title: 

NOTICE: Payment of principal and interest on the above note has been
subordinated to prior payment in full of the Senior Debt, as defined in the attached
Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement (the  Agreement ), in the manner and
to the extent set forth in the Agreement. A copy of the Agreement is attached to this note
for reference.   

Principal Schedule  

Date  

Principal Added  

Principal Paid  

Principal Balance  

Initials  

EXHIBIT B  

FORM OF PIK NOTE  

EXHIBIT C  

CERTIFICATE OF OFFICER OF 
CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

The undersigned hereby certifies:   

1.     
The undersigned is the duly appointed and acting President of Container
Applications International, Inc. a Nevada corporation (the  Company ).
This certificate is delivered pursuant to  Sections 3.1(b), 3.1(c),
3.1(d), 3.1(m), 3.1(n),  and  3.1(q)  of the Note Purchase Agreement
dated as of April 30, 1998 between the Company and Interpool, Inc. (the
 Note Purchase Agreement ). All terms defined in the Note Purchase
Agreement are used herein as defined therein.  

            2.     
All representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Article IV of the
Note Purchase Agreement are true and correct on and as of this date, as though
made on and as of this date.  

3.     
All representations and warranties of the Company in the Security Agreement are
true and correct on and as of this date, as though made on and as of this
date.  

4.      Attached hereto are calculations made by the
Company based on the balance sheet provided to Interpool, Inc., pursuant to
Section 3.1(n) of the Note Purchase Agreement by which the Company has
determined that it is in compliance with the financial covenants contained in
the Note Purchase Agreement which are applicable as of the Closing Date under
the Note Purchase Agreement.  

5.      The undersigned is the duly appointed and
acting President of Container Applications International, Inc., a Nevada
corporation (the  Company ). This certificate is delivered pursuant to
Section 3.1(c) of the Note Purchase Agreement dated as of April 30,
1998 between the Company and Interpool, Inc. (the  Note Purchase
Agreement ). Terms defined in the Note Purchase Agreement are used herein
as therein defined.  

6.      Proceeds from the sale of the Note under the
Note Purchase Agreement will be used for the following purposes in the following
amounts:  

(i)   
 $             
            
          to finance the acquisition of new marine containers;  

                 (ii)   
 $             
            
          to refinance containers already owned by the Company or leased by the
Company on a direct finance lease basis.  

                 (iii)   
 $             
            
          to repay all of the oustanding indebtedness of the Company in favor of
Mitsui.  

Dated: April 30, 1998  

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS 
INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

Name: Hiromitsu Ogawa 
Title: President 

EXHIBIT D  

LEGAL OPINION OF COMPANY COUNSEL  

SCHEDULE 3.1(hh)  

SCHEDULE 4.28  

SCHEDULE 4.32  

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 17
 interpool-ex1056_030906.htm
 EX-10.56

Exhibit 10.56 

Execution Copy   

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC.    

SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT    

SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT dated as of April 29, 1998 among CONTAINER APPLICATIONS
INTERNATIONAL, INC., a Nevada corporation (the  Company ), INTERPOOL,
INC., a Delaware corporation ( IP ), and MR. HIROMITSU OGAWA
( Ogawa ).   

RECITALS  

WHEREAS, IP and Ogawa have entered into a stock purchase agreement dated as of
January 31, 1998 (the  Stock Purchase Agreement ) with Mitsui  
Co., Ltd. and Mitsui   Co. (USA) Inc. (collectively,  Mitsui )
providing for the purchase by IP and Ogawa from Mitsui of certain shares of
common stock of the Company for an aggregate consideration of $12,501,945.53 (in
the case of IP) and $248,054.47 (in the case of Ogawa);   

WHEREAS, the transactions contemplated by the Stock Purchase Agreement are being
consummated simultaneously with entering into this Agreement;   

WHEREAS, simultaneously with entering into this Agreement, the parties are
entering into the following other agreements and transactions:   

A.  A subordinated note purchase agreement of even date herewith
(the  Note Purchase Agreement ) providing for IP s purchase from
the Company of its Subordinated Secured Notes for an aggregate purchase price of
$33,650,000; and 

B.  An intercreditor and subordination agreement of even date herewith
(the  Intercreditor Agreement ) between IP and The First National Bank
of Boston, as agent under the Revolving Credit and Term Loan Agreement dated as
of [July 30, 1992] (as amended to the date hereof) (the  Bank Loan
Agreement ) among the Company, The First National Bank of Boston, as Agent
and the Banks identified therein. 

The
Stock Purchase Agreement, the Note Purchase Agreement, the Intercreditor
Agreement, this Agreement and the other agreements between the Company and IP
being entered into as of the date hereof are herein collectively referred to as
the  Related Agreements,  and the transactions contemplated by the
Related Agreements are herein collectively referred to as the  Related
Transactions.    

WHEREAS, in connection with the entry into the other Related Agreements and the
Related Transactions, the parties hereto wish to impose restrictions on the
transfer of certain shares, and to grant IP certain option rights, and to state
the parties  agreement with respect to certain claims that might otherwise
be asserted against IP; and   

WHEREAS, the parties believe a Shareholders Agreement to be the means best
suited to achieving these objectives;   

NOW, THEREFORE, for
good and valuable consideration the parties hereby agree as follows.   

SECTION 1. 
  DEFINITIONS . 

1.1  As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the following
meanings. Additional capitalized terms are defined elsewhere in this Agreement.

Agreement : This Shareholders  Agreement, as amended or supplemented
from time to time in accordance with its terms.   

Competitor : Any Person which engages, either directly or indirectly, in
any business activity that competes with any significant aspect of the business
of leasing transportation equipment in which IP is actively engaged at the time
in question.   

Covered Shares : All Shares beneficially owned by Mr. Ogawa or IP as of
the date of this Agreement (whether such shares continue to be so owned or
become owned by any direct or remote transferee of or successor to Mr. Ogawa or
IP), or any Shares distributed with respect to or received in exchange for
Covered Shares or into which Covered Shares have been or may be converted;
 provided ,  however , that any Covered Shares shall for all purposes
cease to be Covered Shares (i) upon acquisition of such Covered Shares by the
Company or (ii) upon transfer of such Covered Shares pursuant to a registration
statement under the Securities Act or pursuant to Rule 144 (or any successor
rule) under the Securities Act.   

Involuntary Transfer : Any sale, assignment, transfer, exchange or other
disposition arising by operation of law including, without limitation,
involuntary dissolution of a non-individual shareholder and any sale to satisfy
a judgment (except a judgment specifically enforcing an agreement of sale or
other transfer entered into by the shareholder).   

Optionee Shareholder : With respect to any Shares beneficially owned by
Mr. Ogawa as of the date of this Agreement, IP, to the extent it holds Shares at
the time in question, and any direct or remote transferee of Shares previously
owned by IP (whenever and however IP acquired such Shares), or with respect to
any Shares beneficially owned by IP as of the date of this Agreement, Mr. Ogawa,
to the extent he holds Shares at the time in question, and any direct or remote
transferee of Shares previously owned by Mr. Ogawa (whenever and however Mr.
Ogawa acquired such Shares).   

Purchasing Party : Any Person giving written notice under Section 3.4
hereof of intent to purchase Covered Shares under an option granted by Section 3
hereof.   

Ready Fair Market Value : The value at which property is reasonably
assured of being sold, under then-current market conditions, within 6 months
after the search for the buyer commences, to a buyer fully informed as to the
assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, opportunities and risks associated
with such property. In the case of stock, it shall be determined by allocating
the Ready Fair Market Value of the corporation as a whole among its outstanding
shares, on a fully diluted basis, according to their respective rights, without
any minority interest or illiquidity discount. The Ready Fair Market Value of a
corporation shall be based on an assumed sale of all its outstanding stock, on a
fully diluted basis, coupled with the simultaneous refinancing of all its
outstanding subordinated indebtedness.   

Securities
Act : The Securities Act of 1933, as amended.   

Selling Shareholder : Any holder of Covered Shares who has given an Offer
Notice pursuant to Section 3.2 or with respect to whom a Triggering Event has
occurred, or the legal representative of such holder.   

Shares : Shares of the Company s common stock, no par value, as the
same may be constituted from time to time.   

Transfer : A Voluntary Transfer or
Involuntary Transfer.   

Triggering
Event : As defined in Section 3.3 hereof.   

Voluntary Transfer : Any sale, assignment, transfer, exchange or other
disposition which did not arise by operation of law; and shall include, without
limitation, a sale for cash, obligations or any other property or services, a
hypothecation, the exercise of a right of foreclosure under a power of sale
granted in connection with a hypothecation, a transfer or allocation in
connection with a dissolution of marriage, a transfer pursuant to an order
specifically enforcing an agreement of sale or other transfer entered into or
any actual holder of the subject Shares and, in the case of a entity which is a
holder of Shares, any distribution to shareholders, partners, beneficiaries or
other holders of beneficial interests in such entity and any change in ownership
resulting from a merger or other reorganization of such entity; provided,
however, that a transfer of shares to an affiliate or family member of the
transferor who agrees to comply with the provisions of this Agrement applicable
to the transferor shall not be deemed a voluntary transfer.   

SECTION 2. 
  CERTAIN RIGHTS OF MR. OGAWA  

2.1   Right to Require Valuation . If the Company shall not have
effected an initial public offering of its common stock prior to the fifth
anniversary of the date of this Agreement, then at any time thereafter (until
the Company effects an initial public offering), Mr. Ogawa shall have the right
(exercisable not more than once in any 12-month period) to require that a
determination be made of the Fair Market Value of the Company s common
equity in accordance with this Section 2.1. Such right shall be exercised by
delivery of a written notice (a  Valuation Notice ) to IP and the
Company. The Fair Market Value of the Company shall be such fair market value as
is determined by mutual agreement of Mr. Ogawa and IP or, if Mr. Ogawa and IP do
not so agree within 30 days following delivery of the Valuation Notice, such
fair market value as is determined by a reputable investment banking or
appraisal firm with valuation expertise in the Company s industry selected
by mutual agreement of IP and Mr. Ogawa (the  Appraiser ). The Company
shall engage the Appraiser and shall request the Appraiser to deliver its
written report as to the Fair Market Value of the Company s common equity
to the Company, Mr. Ogawa and IP within 60 calendar days from selection of the
Appraiser. The fees and expenses of the Appraiser will be borne by the Company.
The Appraiser s determination of such fair market value shall be final.

2.2   Right to Require Initial Public Offering.  Following a
determination of Fair Market Value in accordance with Section 2.1, unless IP
shall, within 30 days after determination of such Fair Market Value, make a
written offer to Mr. Ogawa to purchase all (but not less than all) the Covered
Shares owned by Mr. Ogawa at a cash purchase price equal to 50% of the Fair
Market Value of the Company as so determined, Mr. Ogawa shall have the right,
exercisable by written notice to the Company and IP at any time within 90 days
following the end of such 30-day period, to require the Company to take the
necessary steps to register the Covered Shares owned by Mr. Ogawa (or any
portion of such Covered Shares specified by Mr. Ogawa) for sale in a public
offering pursuant to the Securities Act. If Mr. Ogawa exercises such right, the
Company shall (i) proceed, as expeditiously as practicable, to cause a
registration statement for such Covered Shares to be prepared, filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and to become effective, and (ii) to engage a
reputable investment banking firm selected by Mr. Ogawa to effect a public
offering of such shares through such distribution method as Mr. Ogawa may
reasonably request, and (iii) take such other actions (including engaging
counsel and accountants) as may be customary in connection with the exercise of
registration rights by a principal shareholder. The Company shall bear all
expenses of such registration of Mr. Ogawa s covered shares (other than
underwriting or brokerage commissions with respect to the shares actually sold).

2.3   Cooperation by IP . In the event that Mr. Ogawa at any time
desires, following the fifth anniversary of the date of this Agreement, to sell
the Covered Shares owned by him to a third party, IP shall, if requested by Mr.
Ogawa, provide reasonable assistance to Mr. Ogawa in attempting to identify a
third party which might be willing to purchase such shares in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3 of this Agreement.   

SECTION 3. 
  TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS; PURCHASE OPTIONS . 

3.1   Consent
Required for Voluntary Transfer; Transfer to Competitor Prohibited .  

(a)   No
Voluntary Transfer of any interest in any Covered Shares shall be made, or be
valid for any purpose, for a period of five (5) years from the date of this
Agreement, unless (i) in the case of a transfer of Covered Shares owned on the
date hereof by IP, Mr. Ogawa (or any permitted transferee of Mr. Ogawa holding a
majority of the shares owned by Mr. Ogawa as of the date hereof) gives his prior
written consent thereto or (ii) in the case of a transfer of Covered Shares
owned on the date hereof by Mr. Ogawa, IP (or any permitted transferee of IP
holding a majority of the shares owned by IP as of the date hereof) gives its
prior written consent thereto. In considering any request for such consent, the
parties may give consideration to any business factors they judge to be
relevant, including without limitation whether the proposed Voluntary Transfer
will reduce the incentive of the transferor to use his or its maximum efforts
for the success of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Covered Shares
may be transferred to an affiliate or immediate family member of the transferor,
provided that such affiliate or immediate family member agrees to be bound by
this Agreement to the same extent as the transferor.   

(b)   No
Voluntary Transfer to a Competitor of any interest in any Covered Shares shall
be made at any time, or be valid for any purpose.   

3.2   Purchase Option Arising From Proposed Transfer . Any Person
who desires to make a Voluntary Transfer of any Covered Shares (a
 Transferor ) shall give prompt notice (an  Offer Notice )
to the Company and the Optionee Shareholder of the intent to make such Transfer,
which Offer Notice shall include the number of Covered Shares which are the
subject of the proposed Transfer and the terms of such proposed Transfer,
including the amount and type of consideration to be paid for such Covered
Shares. Such Offer Notice shall also identify the parties who may purchase the
Covered Shares from the Transferor. Following the receipt of an Offer Notice,
the Company, and then the Optionee Shareholder, shall have an option to purchase
the Covered Shares identified in such Offer Notice upon the terms set forth in
this Section 3. Nothing in this Section 3.2 shall affect the consent requirement
stated in Section 3.1, and the granting of any consent under Section 3.1 shall
not affect the rights arising under this Section 3.2.   

3.3   Other Events Triggering Purchase Option . Upon the
occurrence of any of the following events (each a  Triggering Event )
with respect to a holder of Covered Shares (the  Affected Party ), the
Company, and then the Optionee Shareholder, shall have the option to purchase
all the Covered Shares beneficially owned by the Affected Party (or, in the case
of clause (a) below, the Covered Shares that were the subject of the Involuntary
Transfer) upon the terms set forth in this Section 3:   

(a)   The Involuntary Transfer of Covered Shares by the
Affected Party; 

(b)   The death or dissolution of the Affected
Party; 

(c)   The appointment of a conservator for the Affected
Party; 

(d)   The commencement of any case, proceeding or other action by
or against the Affected Party seeking to have an order of relief entered to
adjudicate the Affected Party a bankrupt or insolvent, seeking reorganization,
adjustment or composition of the party s debts, or seeking the appointment
of a trustee, custodian or other similar official for the Affected Party or for
all or any substantial part of the Affected Party s property; provided,
however, that any such case, proceeding or other action initiated by a third
party against the Affected Party shall not become a Triggering Event unless such
case, proceeding or other action remains undismissed for 120
days; 

(e)   The commission by the Affected Party of a felony or an act
involving fraud or moral turpitude which relates to the Company, reflects in a
materially adverse manner on the Company or otherwise materially and adversely
affects the Company. 

An Affected Party
shall give prompt notice (a  Triggering Event Notice ) to the Company
and the other parties to this Agreement of the occurrence of any Triggering
Event, and if such Triggering Event Notice is not promptly given, any other
party having knowledge of such Triggering Event may give a Triggering Event
Notice. The Triggering Event Notice shall describe the Triggering Event, the
Persons involved, and the nature and terms of any Transfer in connection with
such event.   

3.4   Manner of Exercise . Any option granted by this Section 3
shall be exercised in the following manner.  

(a)    Time for Exercise and Tender of Purchase Price . If
the Company wishes to purchase any Covered Shares pursuant to an option granted
under this Section 3, the Company shall, within 30 days after the date the Offer
Notice or the Triggering Event Notice is given to the Company (the  Company
Option Period ), give written notice to the Selling Shareholder and the
Optionee Shareholder specifying the number of Covered Shares the Company intends
to purchase.  

If the Company does
not give written notice to the Selling Shareholder of the intent to purchase all
Covered Shares made available under the option, the Company shall, within three
days after the expiration of the Company Option Period, notify the Optionee
Shareholder of the option to purchase the Covered Shares which are available
under the option and are not proposed to be purchased by the Company. In the
event the Optionee Shareholder wishes to exercise the option, the Optionee
Shareholder shall, within 60 days after the expiration of the Company Option
Period (the  Shareholder Option Period ), give written notice to the
Selling Shareholder and the Company specifying the number of the Covered Shares
available under the option the Optionee Shareholder intends to purchase. If the
Optionee Shareholder gives notice pursuant to this Section 3.4(a), the Optionee
Shareholder may not withdraw or amend such notice except as provided below.

If the total number
of Covered Shares specified in all written notices under this Section 3.4(a)
received by the Selling Shareholder before the expiration of the Shareholder
Option Period does not equal or exceed the total number of Covered Shares
available under the option, the Selling Shareholder shall within three days
after the expiration of the Shareholder Option Period give written notice of
this fact to all Purchasing Parties. In such case, any Purchasing Party may
within six days after the expiration of the Shareholder Option Period increase
the number of Covered Shares the party intends to purchase.   

After the expiration of such additional six-day period for the submission of new
notices, the Selling Shareholder shall give written notice to the Purchasing
Parties of the total number of Covered Shares offered to be purchased in the
notices received by the Selling Shareholder. If such number equals or exceeds
the number of Covered Shares available under the option, such notice by the
Selling Shareholder shall create a separate and enforceable contract between the
Selling Shareholder and each Purchasing Party for the sale and purchase of the
number of Covered Shares allocated to such Purchasing Party under Section 3.4(b)
below on the terms specified in Section 3.7 below. No sale of shares shall be
required hereunder unless the Purchasing Parties collectively elect to purchase
all of the shares made available under the option.   

(b)    Allocation of Covered Shares . If the number of
Covered Shares offered to be purchased in all notices under Section 3.4(a)
hereof equals the number of Covered Shares available under the option, each
Purchasing Party shall be allocated a number of Covered Shares equal to the
number of Covered Shares specified in such Purchasing Party s latest notice
to the Selling Shareholder.  

If the number of
Covered Shares offered to be purchased under the option exceeds the number of
Covered Shares available under the option, Covered Shares shall be allocated to
the Purchasing Parties as follows:   

(i)   The Company shall be allocated the number of Covered
Shares specified in its notice; and

(ii)   Any Covered Shares not purchased by the Company shall be
allocated to the other Purchasing Party.

(c)    Effect of Failure to
Exercise Option . In the case of a proposed Voluntary Transfer, if at the end
of the sixth day after the expiration of the Shareholder Option Period, the
total number of Covered Shares specified in all notices received by the Selling
Shareholder is less than the total number of Covered Shares available under the
option, the Selling Shareholder shall have the right to commence discussions
regarding a purchase of the Covered Shares described in the Offer Notice with
any potential purchaser identified in the Offer Notice or any other potential
purchaser named in a subsequent written notice from the Selling Shareholder to
the Company and the other parties to this Agreement (a  Purchaser
Identification Notice  provided, however, that the Selling Shareholder
shall not enter into such discussions with any potential purchaser identified in
the Offer Notice or a Purchaser Identification Notice if, within 14 days after
receipt of the Offer Notice or the Purchaser Identification Notice, the Company
or the Optionee Shareholder reasonably advises the Selling Shareholder in
writing that such potential purchaser is not acceptable as a purchaser of
Covered Shares and states the basis for such objection. Thereafter, the Selling
Shareholder may make a Transfer of all (but not less than all, except to the
extent tag-along rights are exercised pursuant to Section 3.7 of this Agreement)
of such Covered Shares to any purchaser identified in the Offer Notice or in a
Purchaser Identification Notice (excluding any such purchaser as to which
objection is made as described in the proviso to the preceding sentence) upon
the terms set forth in the Offer Notice (or other terms that are in no respect
more favorable to such purchaser than the terms set forth in the Offer Notice),
provided that (i) the Selling Shareholder and such purchaser fully comply with
the tag-along provisions of Section 3.7 below, (ii) such Transfer is consummated
within 90 days after the expiration of the Shareholder Option Period, and (iii)
the transferee executes a counterpart of this Agreement. Any Shares thus
transferred shall remain Covered Shares, as set forth in Section 7. If no such
Transfer to that transferee is consummated within such 90 day period, such
Covered Shares of the Selling Shareholder shall remain subject to all
restrictions, terms and conditions of this Agreement.  

In
the case of an Involuntary Transfer, if at the end of the sixth day after the
expiration of the Shareholder Option Period the total number of Covered Shares
specified in all notices received by the Selling Shareholder is less than the
total number of Covered Shares available under the option, then the Selling
Shareholder shall not be obligated to sell the Covered Shares under this Section
3 on account of such Involuntary Transfer, but this Agreement shall continue to
apply to the Covered Shares.   

3.5   Exercise Price and Terms of Purchase Option . The total
purchase price and other terms to be paid on exercise of an option granted under
this section shall be determined as follows:   

(a)   In the case of an option arising from the giving of any
Offer Notice in accordance with Section 3.2, the purchase price and other terms
shall be as set forth in such Offer Notice.  

(b)   In the case of an option arising from the occurrence of a
Triggering Event, the purchase price (which shall be payable in cash) shall be
the Fair Market Value of one Share at the time of the Triggering Event
multiplied by the number of shares being purchased. The parties to the
transaction will use their best efforts to agree upon such Ready Fair Market
Value within 10 days after the expiration of the Shareholder Option Period. If
the parties cannot agree on a value within such 10 days, the parties shall
accept the determination of an appraiser appointed by the San Francisco branch
of the American Arbitration Association.  

3.6   Time and Manner of Payment . Closing of all purchases of
Covered Shares under any option granted under this Section 3 shall occur on the
30th day after the later of (i) expiration of the Shareholder Option Period, and
(ii) the date of any report by an appraiser appointed pursuant to Section 3.5(b)
above. On such date, each Purchasing Party shall tender the purchase price for
all Covered Shares to be purchased by it under the option, and the Selling
Shareholder shall deliver to each Purchasing Party the certificates representing
such Covered Shares along with any signatures, endorsements and/or documents
necessary to transfer good title to such Covered Shares. The failure of any
party to satisfy its obligations under this Section 3.6 as to any particular
transaction shall not affect the enforceability of any other transaction.

3.7   Tag-Along Right.  In the event that, following compliance
with Section 3.4(c), a Selling Shareholder reaches agreement with a
non-affiliate named in the Offer Notice or a Purchaser Identification Notice
(the  Third Party Purchaser ) for such Third Party Purchaser to
purchase any Covered Shares, such Selling Shareholder shall deliver a written
notice (a  Tag-Along Invitation Notice ) of such agreement to the
Company and the Optionee Shareholder. The Tag-Along Invitation Notice shall
specify (A) the name and address of the Third Party Purchaser, (B) the
consideration to be paid for such Covered Shares and (C) all other material
terms and conditions of such agreement. The Optionee Shareholder may elect to
participate in the sale of Covered Shares to the Third Party Purchaser on the
terms and conditions stated in this Section 3.7 by giving a written notice (the
 Tag-Along Acceptance Notice ) to the Selling Shareholder within 20
days after receipt of the Tag-Along Invitation Notice. In the event that the
Optionee Shareholder gives a Tag-Along Acceptance Notice, the Optionee
Shareholder shall have the right to sell to the Third Party Purchaser, on the
terms and conditions stated in the Tag-Along Invitation Notice, the number of
Covered Shares owned by the Optionee Shareholder specified in the Tag-Along
Acceptance Notice, but not more than that portion of the Covered Shares owned by
the Optionee Shareholder which is equal to the product obtained by multiplying
(i) the total number of Covered Shares which the Third Party Purchaser has
agreed to purchase from the Selling Shareholder by (ii) the Optionee
Shareholder s total percentage interest in the issued and outstanding
Covered Shares. Within ten days after its receipt of a Tag Along Acceptance
Notice, the Selling Shareholder shall notify the Optionee Shareholder of the
date on which the sale of Covered Shares to the Third Party Purchaser will be
consummated, which shall be no later the later of (A) 30 days after delivery of
the Tag Along Acceptance Notice and (B) the satisfaction of any governmental
approval or filing requirements applicable to the sale. The Optionee Shareholder
electing to participate in the sale to the Third Party Purchaser in accordance
with this Section may effect its participation by delivery to the Third Party
Purchaser, or to the Selling Shareholder for delivery to the Third Party
Purchaser, of one or more certificates, properly endorsed for transfer or with
duly executed stock powers attached, representing the Covered Shares that the
Optionee Shareholder has elected to sell. At the time of consummation of the
sale of Covered Shares to the Third Party Purchaser, the Third Party Purchaser
shall remit directly to the Optionee Shareholder that portion of the sale
proceeds which the Optionee Shareholder is entitled by reason of its
participation therein.   

3.8   Insurance . In order to facilitate any exercise (in its
sole discretion) of an option granted to the Company under this Section 3 upon
any death of Mr. Ogawa, the Company shall purchase and maintain term life
insurance in an amount of at least $1,000,000 or its equivalent on his life for
the purpose of funding the purchase of all or any portion of Mr. Ogawa s
Covered Shares pursuant to an option granted by this Section 3. The Company
shall be the sole owner and named beneficiary of such policy, and neither Mr.
Ogawa nor his successors shall have any right or interest therein.   

3.9   Termination . The obligations and rights of the parties
under this Section 3 shall terminate upon the written agreement of IP, the
Company, and all holders of Covered Shares. The right of any party to purchase
any Covered Shares pursuant to the exercise of the option set forth in Section
3.2 or 3.3 shall terminate upon any material breach of this Agreement by such
party.   

Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall be construed as limiting the
rights of any party under this Agreement arising from the breach of any term
hereof. No termination of this Section 3 shall affect any other provision of
this Agreement.   

3.10   Non-Competition Agreement by Mr. Ogawa Upon His Sale of
Covered Shares.  In the event that Mr. Ogawa transfers a majority of the
Covered Shares owned by him on the date of this Agreement to a third party in
accordance with the provisions of this Section 3, IP (or any permitted
transferee of IP) and/or the Company shall have the option, exerciseable within
30 days of the transfer, to require Mr. Ogawa to enter into a reasonable
non-competition agreement with the Company which provides that, in return for
payments of $250,000 per year for a two-year period, Mr. Ogawa will be
prohibited from becoming, or being in any way associated (as officer, director,
partner, shareholder or in any other capacity) with, a Competitor at any time
during such two-year period.   

SECTION 4. 
 ELECTION OF NOMINEES TO THE COMPANY'S BOARD 
 AND APPROVAL REQUIREMENT FOR CERTAIN ACTIONS .

4.1   Nomination; Voting .  

(a)   
Subject to Section 4.1(b), at any election of the Company s board of
directors, whether at a meeting of shareholders or by written consent of
shareholders, each of the Company s shareholders agrees to vote all shares
owned by such shareholder for the election as directors of an equal number of
individuals nominated by IP (or any permitted transferee of IP under this
Agreement) and directors nominated by Mr. Ogawa (or any permitted transferee of
Mr. Ogawa under this Agreement). Initially, there shall be two directors
nominated by IP and two directors nominated by Mr. Ogawa. Subject to Section
4.1(b), if the board of directors should at any time not include an equal number
of directors nominated by IP (or such permitted transferee) and directors
nominated by Mr. Ogawa (or such permitted transferee), each of the
Company s shareholders agrees to take all such action as may be necessary
(including, but not limited to, the holding of a shareholders meeting for the
purpose of filling any vacancy that may then exist) in order that the Board of
Directors shall include an equal number of directors nominated by IP (or such
permitted transferee) and directors nominated by Mr. Ogawa (or such permitted
transferee).  

(b)   If at any time a Specified Event shall occur at a time
when individuals nominated by IP (or any permitted transferee of IP under this
Agreement) do not constitute a majority of the board of directors of the
Company, then the Company s shareholders shall, upon the request of IP (or
such permitted transferee), take all such action as may be necessary (including,
but not limited to, the holding of a shareholders meeting for the purpose of
increasing the number of directors and filling the vacancy thereby created) in
order that the Board of Directors shall, so long as such Specified Event
continues to exist, include a sufficient number of individuals nominated by IP
(or such permitted transferee) such that individuals nominated by IP (or such
permitted transferee) shall constitute a majority of the board of directors. As
used herein,  Specified Event  means (i) the occurrence of an Event of
Default under the Note Purchase Agreement or the related Subordinated Secured
Notes (other than a non-payment Event of Default also constituting an Event of
Default under the Company s bank credit agreement, if the lenders under the
Company s bank credit agreement execute a written waiver of such Event of
Default and the consequences thereof), (ii) the giving of a payment blockage
notice with respect to the Subordinated Secured Notes by the agent under the
Company s bank credit agreement, or (iii) the making of any additional
advance to the Company pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement.  

(c)   Without limitation on the other remedies available for the
breach of this Section 4.1 or of the other provisions of this Agreement, the
parties to this Agreement shall be entitled to specific performance of this
Section 4.1 in the event of any actual or threatened breach of this Section
4.1.  

4.2  Termination
of Duty . The obligations of the shareholders under Section 4.1 shall
terminate upon the occurrence of the earliest of the following dates or events:
(i) IP S acquisition of more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of
the Company or (ii) Mr. Ogawa s acquisition of more than 50% of the
outstanding voting stock of the Company. No termination of such obligations
shall affect any other provision of this Agreement.   

4.3   Approval Requirements for Certain Board Actions .  

(a)   
No action listed below in this paragraph (a) may be taken by the Company without
the affirmative vote or written consent of all directors then in office. The
actions to which this paragraph (a) applies are the following:  

(1)   any amendment of the Company s Articles of
Incorporation or Bylaws (other than to increase the authorized number of
directors in accordance with Section 4.1); 

(2)   the declaration or payment of any dividend or other
distribution in respect of, or the purchase or redemption of, any shares of the
Company s capital stock of any class or any options, warrants, or
conversion or other rights to purchase or otherwise acquire any such shares or
any securities convertible into or exchangeable for such shares; 

(3)   the issuance or sale of any shares of capital stock of any
class or any options, warrants or conversion or other rights to purchase or
otherwise acquire any such shares or any securities convertible into or
exchangeable for such shares; 

(4)   the dissolution, liquidation or reorganization of the
Company, or any merger or consolidation of the Company with another corporation
or enterprise; and 

(5)   the entering into of any material contract, arrangement or
transaction granting any rights or licenses under any trademarks, tradenames,
patent rights or trade secrets or any termination, extension or amendment
thereto; 

(b)   No action listed below in this
paragraph (b) may be taken by the Company without the affirmative vote or
written consent of at least one director then in office who was nominated by IP.
The actions to which this paragraph (b) applies are the following:   

(1)   the filing by the Company of a petition or application to
any tribunal for, or the Company s consenting to, the appointment of, or
taking possession by, a trustee, receiver, custodian, liquidator or similar
official, of the Company or any substantial part of its assets, or the
commencement of a voluntary case under the bankruptcy law of the United States,
or any proceeding relating to the Company under the bankruptcy law of any other
jurisdiction; 

(2)   the sale (other than the sale of assets pursuant to
purchase options contained in leases of such assets in the ordinary course of
business), lease (other than the lease of assets in the ordinary course of
business), transfer, mortgage, pledge, encumbrance or other disposition of any
portion of the business, assets or properties of the Company having a book or
market value of more than $100,000 or its equivalent, or the entering into of
any agreement, commitment or other arrangement therefor; 

(3)   the acquisition or lease of any assets or properties
having a price or market value of more than $100,000 or its equivalent, or the
entering into of any agreement, commitment or other arrangement therefor, except
for the procurement of containers pursuant to a Company business plan approved
in advance by the Company s board of directors, with the affirmative vote
or consent of at least one director nominated by IP; 

(4)   any investment in any other corporation, partnership,
joint venture or other person, or any loan or other extension of credit (other
than by lease as permitted hereby), or the entering into of any agreement,
commitment or other arrangement therefor; 

(5)   the incurring or guarantee of any indebtedness (other than
(i) indebtedness incurred under the Note Purchase Agreement or the Bank Credit
Agreement as in effect on the date of this Agreement, (ii) indebtedness relating
to capital expenditures previously approved by the Board of Directors, and (iii)
up to $100,000 in principal amount of other indebtedness incurred during any
fiscal year; 

(6)   the forgiveness or cancellation of any debts or claims
(other than forgiveness agreements with lessees affecting less than $100,000 of
indebtedness and entered into in the ordinary course of business); 

(7)   the entering into of any agreement, commitment or other
transaction of which performance will not be completed within one year or which
has a contract value exceeding $100,000 or its equivalent (other than leases of
assets in the ordinary course of business) or any termination, extension or
material amendment thereto; 

(8)   the entering into of any employment contract with any
officer, director or management employee or any termination, extension or
material amendment thereto; 

(9)   determination of or change in the compensation paid to any
officer, director or management employee (other than increases in compensation
for employees whose annual compensation (after any such increase) is not more
than $75,000); 

(10)   the adoption or material amendment of any employment,
collective bargaining, bonus, profit-sharing, compensation, stock option,
pension, retirement, deferred compensation or other plan, agreement, trust, fund
or arrangement for the benefit of employees; 

(11)   any change in the Company s independent auditors or
any material change in its accounting practices, policies or
principles; 

(12)   the entering into of any contract, arrangement or
transaction (other than this Agreement) with any shareholder (other than IP) or
any termination, extension or amendment thereto; 

(13)   any material change in the business or business activity
engaged in by the Company; 

(14)   the adoption of annual and semi-annual operating and
capital budgets and plans; and 

(15)   any election or removal of any officer. 

4.4   Special Approval Requirements for Certain
Actions .   

(a)   In the event that all directors
then in office who were nominated by IP (or any permitted transferee of IP under
this Agreement), whether or not such directors represent a majority of the Board
of Directors at the time in question, shall determine unanimously by affirmative
vote or written consent that the employment of Mr. Ogawa shall be terminated for
cause in accordance with the terms of his employment agreement, such vote shall
be sufficient to terminate such agreement, without regard to any vote by
directors nominated by Mr. Ogawa.  

(b)   In the event that all directors
then in office who were nominated by Mr. Ogawa (or any permitted transferee of
Mr. Ogawa under this Agreement), whether or not such directors represent a
majority of the Board of Directors at the time in question, shall determine
unanimously by affirmative vote or written consent that (i) certain individuals
shall be designated as the Company s nominees to the Board of Managers of
Interpool/CAI LLC or (ii) the Company shall exercise its right to cause [a
termination or dissolution of Interpool/CAI LLC], such vote shall be sufficient
to effect such designation or to exercise such right, without regard to any vote
by directors nominated by IP.  

SECTION 5. 
  TERMINATION OF MARKETING AGREEMENTS UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES .

5.1   Right to Terminate Marketing Agreements Under Certain
Circumstances.  Pursuant to an Agreement dated April 29, 1998 (the
 Overall Agreement ) between CAI and Interpool Limited, a subsidiary
of IP, CAI and Interpool Limited have agreed, among other things, to transfer
their respective marketing employees to a newly formed limited liability company
to be wholly owned by Interpool Limited (the  LLC ), which will act as
the exclusive marketing agent for CAI and Interpool Limited pursuant to separate
Marketing Service Agreements to be entered into by each company with the LLC.
The parties agree to utilize their respective best efforts in good faith to
resolve any disputes that may arise in connection with such agreements. In the
event that (1) Mr. Ogawa does not receive sufficient support from Interpool
Limited or its former employees to effectively manage the marketing activities
of the LLC as its CEO, in accordance with the Overall Agreements, or (2) in the
reasonable judgment of the management of either Interpool or CAI, the marketing
or economic performance of the LLC is unsatisfactory, then upon the written
request of either CAI or Interpool delivered to the other party at any time
within the first 12 months following the transfer of employees to the LLC, Mr.
Ogawa and Interpool will cooperate in causing the mutual termination of the
Marketing Service Agreements, whereupon either party may seek to rehire its
former employees; provided, however, that in any such case (i) so long as
Interpool Limited and CAI continue to be parties to the Operating and
Administration Agreement dated the date hereof, all long term business
thereafter written by CAI marketing representatives, subject to a 10%
participation retention by CAI, will either be conducted by CAI, as an agent on
behalf of Interpool, or offered for sale to Interpool on a right of first
refusal basis (with CAI receiving the same remuneration to which it would
otherwise have been entitled under Section 1.8 of the Overall Agreement), such
that Interpool Limited s ability to write long term business will not be
materially impaired by reason of the terminations; (ii) CAI and Interpool shall
use their best efforts (without material incremental expense (excluding any such
expense reimbursed by the other party)) to restructure their marketing and other
integrated activities in a manner which minimizes tax exposures for each company
and complies with governmental regulatory requirements, and (iii) all such new
arrangements are implemented in a manner that, in the reasonable judgment of
Interpool and CAI are the most beneficial for their respective business needs,
without the imposition of material incremental expense of either
party.  

SECTION 6. 
  REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES . 

6.1   Shareholders of the Company . The
Company and Mr. Ogawa hereby represent and warrant to IP that immediately prior
to the date of this Agreement, the following Persons were the only Shareholders
of the Company, and held the stated number of Shares and percentage of the
Company s issued and outstanding Shares:   

The Company and Mr.
Ogawa hereby represent and warrant that there are no outstanding stock
appreciation rights or other rights to compensation, bonuses or other
consideration based on or relating to the value of any capital stock of the
Company, or any commitments for the same, except as disclosed in Exhibit A to
this Agreement.   

6.2   Encumbrances,
Liens, and other Obligations . Mr. Ogawa hereby represents and warrants that
(i) he holds his Shares free and clear of al1 liens and other encumbrances other
than the pledge of a portion of such Shares to Sumitomo Bank of California
( Sumitomo ), which pledge shall not be subject to the terms of this
Agreement, provided however, that subject to the rights of Sumitomo under its
pledge agreement with Mr. Ogawa, the shares pledged by Mr. Ogawa shall remain in
all respects subject to the terms of this Agreement, and (ii) his entering into
this Agreement will not cause him to be in breach of any contract or obligation
applicable to him or his Shares.   

6.3   The Company's Bylaws . The Company hereby represents and
warrants that its bylaws are as set forth in Appendix 2 attached
hereto.  

SECTION 7. 
  TRANSFER; LEGEND . 

7.1  
 Noncomplying Transfers Invalid . No Transfer of Covered Shares that does
not comply with the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be effective or
valid for any purpose. The Company shall neither transfer nor reissue any shares
in violation of this Agreement or without proof of compliance with this
Agreement.   

7.2  
 Transferees Bound . Any and all transferees of Covered Shares, whether or
not made in accordance with this Agreement, shall be bound by all provisions of
this Agreement to the extent such transferee or transferees would be bound had
they been an original party hereto, and the transferred shares shall continue to
be Covered Shares.   

7.3  
 Legend . The Company shall cause all certificates representing Covered
Shares to be legended as follows:   

The Shares represented by this certificate are subject to the provisions of a
Shareholders Agreement dated as of April 29, 1998 (as it may be amended from
time to time) whereby the disposition of these Shares is restricted. ANY
TRANSFER IN VIOLATION OF THESE RESTRICTIONS IS VOID. A copy of said Agreement is
on file at the registered office of the Company where it may be inspected. 

SECTION 8.  
  WAIVER AND RELEASE . 

8.1   General
Intention of the Parties; Rights Under Related Agreements . The Company and
Mr. Ogawa recognize that IP s stock and note investments in the Company
represent a substantial allocation of capital in support of the Company. The
Company and Mr. Ogawa recognize and agree that it is their intent that IP have
the full opportunity to exercise all its rights and powers as shareholder,
noteholder, secured party and as a party to the Related Agreements and the
Related Transactions, including, without limitation the exercise of any
influence or control that may result therefrom, (collectively, the  IP
Rights ), and that the opportunity to exercise the IP Rights is a material
element in IP s decision to invest in the Company.   

The Related
Agreements, and applicable law, confer a wide variety of rights on the parties
thereto. It is the full intent of the parties that IP and Mr. Ogawa will
exercise all rights accorded them under the Related Agreements and under
applicable law, and that all such rights be enforceable, fully in accordance
with their terms. The rights and remedies available to IP under the Related
Agreements shall in no way be impaired or limited by the fact that IP is an
equity and/or debt holder in the Company and may acquire or exercise a
controlling interest in the Company, or for any other reason. All such rights
and remedies shall be exercisable by IP to the full extent as if no other
relationship existed between IP and the Company.   

Nothing in this
Section 8.1 shall be interpreted as a waiver of, or shall diminish, the
fiduciary duty of all the directors of the Company (including appointees of IP
and Mr. Ogawa) to exercise their judgment for the benefit of the Company and all
its shareholders.   

8.2   Importance
of this Section 8 . This Section 8 is a material part of the Related
Transactions, and Mr. Ogawa is entering into this Section 8 in order to induce
IP to consummate the Related Transactions, recognizing that IP would not do so
but for the provisions of this Section 8.   

SECTION 9. 
  NOTICE . 

All notices required
or permitted to be given or made pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed
given when delivered in person or by telefacsimile, or, in the case of notice to
an address in the United States, when mailed by express or certified mail,
postage prepaid, to the parties at the addresses set forth below. Each party may
specify a different address by written notice to all other parties.   

SECTION 10. 
  SPECIFIC ENFORCEMENT . 

Because of the
unique relationship of the parties and the Company and the unique value of their
interests therein, in addition to any other remedies for breach thereof, this
Agreement shall be specifically enforceable. The parties agree that monetary
damages would not be adequate compensation for any loss incurred by reason of a
breach of the provisions of this Agreement and hereby agree to waive the defense
in any action for specific performance that a remedy at law would be adequate.

SECTION 11. 
  ARBITRATION . 

11.1  
 Arbitration Generally . Any actions, controversies, claims, disputes and
other factual or legal matters in question arising out of or relating to this
Agreement, or the alleged breach thereof, or arising out of any claim against IP
on account of any exercise of any IP Right, including without limitation any
dispute regarding the validity or scope of this arbitration provision, shall be
settled by arbitration conducted in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration
Rules of the American Arbitration Association, as then in effect, except as
provided herein.   

11.2  
 Selection of Arbitrators . Unless the parties agree otherwise, any such
arbitration shall be held in San Francisco, California, before one arbitrator
who shall be selected by mutual agreement of the parties; if agreement is not
reached on the selection of an arbitrator within 30 days after receipt of a
demand for arbitration by the other party (the  Initial Selection
Period ), then Mr. Ogawa on the one hand and IP on the other hand shall
each have 30 days from the expiration of the Initial Selection Period to select
an arbitrator. The two arbitrators shall select a third arbitrator who shall
arbitrate the dispute. If either party does not timely select an arbitrator, the
arbitrator selected by the other party shall arbitrate the dispute.   

11.3   Scope
of Arbitration . Costs and fees of the arbitrator shall be borne by the
non-prevailing party, unless the arbitrator determines otherwise. The award of
the arbitrator, which may include specific performance or other equitable
relief, shall be final and judgment may be entered upon it in accordance with
applicable law in any court having jurisdiction thereof. Any demand for
arbitration shall be in writing and must be made within a reasonable time after
the claim, dispute or other matter in question has arisen. In no event shall the
demand for arbitration be made after the date that institution of legal or
equitable proceedings based upon such claim, dispute or other matter would be
barred by the applicable statute of limitations. Nothing in this Section 11
shall prevent a party to this Agreement from seeking preliminary injunctive or
other equitable relief, pending arbitration, from a court of competent
jurisdiction when the party deems such relief necessary to the interim
protection of its rights under this Agreement pending arbitration and
arbitration proceedings could not be completed within the time necessary for
such protection.   

SECTION 12. 
  MISCELLANEOUS . 

12.1   Integration . This Agreement constitutes the entire
agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and
supersedes all prior negotiations or agreements, whether written or oral.

12.2   Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by and
interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of California.  

12.3   Amendment . This Agreement may be amended only by a
writing signed by the IP, the Company, and all holders of Covered Shares.  

12.4   Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in identical
counterparts, which counterparts collectively shall constitute one and the same
Agreement.   

12.5   Severability . The provisions of this Agreement are
intended to be severable and enforced to the maximum extent permitted by law. If
for any reason any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid, illegal or
unenforceable in whole or in part in any jurisdiction, then that provision shall
be ineffective only to the extent of the invalidity, illegality or
unenforceability and in that jurisdiction only, without in any manner affecting
the validity, legality or enforceability of the unaffected portion and the
remaining provisions in that jurisdiction or any provision of the Agreement in
any other jurisdiction. The unaffected portion and provisions of the Agreement
will be enforced to the maximum extent permitted by law.   

12.6   Successors and Assigns . The obligations of the parties
hereto shall be binding upon any successor or assign to such party. The rights
of IP under this Agreement shall be assignable in whole or in part, to the
extent permitted by Section 3, to any direct or remote transferee, successor or
assign of IP. The rights of Mr. Ogawa under this Agreement shall be assignable
in whole or in part, to the extent permitted by Section 3, to any direct or
remote transferee, successor or assign of Mr. Ogawa. The rights of the Company
under this Agreement are not assignable.   

12.7   Conflicts of Interest . If at any time IP, on the one
hand, or Mr. Ogawa, on the other hand, proposes to enter into any transaction or
relationship which involves or could involve an actual or potential conflict of
interest with the Company, IP or Mr. Ogawa, as the case may be, shall discuss
with the other the proposed transaction or relationship and the pertinent terms
thereof prior to entering into such transaction or relationship.   

12.8   Amendment
Upon Initial Public Offering . In the event that at any time (whether
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 or otherwise) the Company effects an
initial public offering of its common stock under the Securities Act, the
parties shall engage in good faith discussions regarding the amendments to this
Agreement which are appropriate in connection therewith.   

12.9   Approval . The obligations of CAI hereunder are subject to
the approval of this Agreement by the Mitsui nominees on the board of directors
of CAI, pursuant to a unanimous written consent which will be circulated by CAI
among its directors promptly upon execution of this Agreement.   

[SIGNATURE PAGE TO SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT]  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
the parties hereto have executed this Agreement.   

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS 
   INTERNATIONAL, INC.

By              

Name: 
       Title: 

INTERPOOL, INC. 

By             

Name: 
       Title: 

Mr. Hiromitsu Ogawa

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 18
 interpool-ex1057_030906.htm
 EX-10.57

Ex-10.57 

AMENDMENT NO. 1 
 
To that certain 
 
NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT  

This
Amendment No. 1, dated as of April ___, 2000 ("Amendment No. 1"), is
made by and between Container Applications International, Inc. (the
"Company"), a Nevada corporation having offices located at 3
Embarcadero Center, Suite 1850, San Francisco, California 94111-3834, and
Interpool, Inc. (the "Purchaser"), a Delaware corporation having
offices located at 211 College Road East, Princeton, New Jersey 08540.

WHEREAS, the Company and the Purchaser are parties to that certain Note Purchase
Agreement, dated as of April 30, 1998 (the "Note Purchase Agreement"),
pursuant to which the Company has sold and the Purchaser has purchased a Note in
the aggregate principal amount of Thirty-Three Million Six Hundred Fifty
Thousand Dollars ($33,650,000.00) under the terms and conditions set forth
therein; and   

WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Purchaser consent to amend certain
terms and provisions of the Note Purchase Agreement as set forth therein;  

NOW
THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:   

1.   Section 6.1(b) Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net
Worth. Subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in
Section 3 hereof, Section 6.1(b) of the Note Purchase Agreement is hereby
deleted and replaced as follows:  

"(b)   Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net Worth. The
Company will not permit Consolidated Adjusted Tangible Net Worth at any time to
be less than the sum of (i) $40,000,000.00 plus (ii) fifty percent (50%) of
positive Consolidated Net Income for each fiscal quarter ending after April 1,
2000 (with no deductions for any quarter in which there is a net
loss)." 

2.   Section 6.1(d) Interest Coverage. Subject to the
satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3 hereof, the
Periods and Ratios set forth in Section 6.1(d) of the Note Purchase Agreement
are hereby deleted and replaced as follows:  

3.    Effectiveness. This Amendment No. 1 shall become effective
as of the date hereof upon the satisfaction of each of the following conditions
precedent:  

(a)    Execution and delivery of a counterpart signature page to
this Amendment by each of the Company and the Purchaser.  

(b)    Satisfaction of each of the conditions precedent set forth
in Section 4 of the Amendment No. 2 to that certain Fourth Restated Revolving
Credit and Term Loan Agreement, dated as of April __, 2000, by and among the
Company, the lending institutions referred to therein as Banks (the
"Banks"), Fleet National Bank (f/k/a BankBoston, N.A.), as
administrative agent for the Banks, and Union Bank of California, N.A., as
co-agent for the Banks.  

4.    Miscellaneous. This Amendment No. 1 may be executed in any
number of counterparts, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but
one instrument. In making proof of this Amendment No. 1 it shall not be
necessary to produce or account for more than one counterpart signed by each
party hereto by and against which enforcement is sought.  

            IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment No. 1 as an
agreement under seal this _______ day of April, 2000.   

Container Applications International, Inc. 

By:           

Name: 
       Title: 
 Interpool, Inc. 

By:           

Name: 
       Title: 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 19
 interpool-ex1058_030906.htm
 EX-10.58

Ex-10.58 

AMENDMENT NO. 2 
to that certain  
NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
dated as of April 30, 1998    

            This
 AMENDMENT NO. 2  (this "  Amendment  "), dated as of March
__, 2002, is by and between  CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. , a
Nevada corporation (the "  Company  ") and  INTERPOOL, INC , a
Delaware Corporation ("  Lender  "). Capitalized terms used
herein without definition shall have the respective meanings provided therefor
in the Note Purchase Agreement referred to below.   

             WHEREAS, 
the Company and the Lender are parties to that certain Note Purchase Agreement
dated as of April 30, 1998 (as amended, modified, supplemented or restated and
in effect on the date hereof, the "  Note Purchase
Agreement  "), pursuant to which the Lender, upon certain terms and
conditions has purchased a subordinated promissory note from the
Company;  

             WHEREAS ,
the Company has requested that the Lender amend certain of
the terms and provisions of the Note Purchase Agreement as set forth herein; and

WHEREAS ,
subject to the terms and provisions hereof the Lender has agreed to amend the
Note Purchase Agreement as hereinafter provided.  

NOW THEREFORE , the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:   

1.        Amendments to Note Purchase Agreement . 
Subject to the consent of the Agent on behalf of the Banks (as
each such term is defined in the Bank Credit Agreement), the Note
Purchase Agreement is hereby amended as follows:   

1.1        Definitions .  Section 1.1
of the Note Purchase Agreement is amended by adding the following new definition
to such Section 1.1 in its appropriate place in the alphabetical order:  

" Consolidated EBITDA . For any period, an amount equal to the sum of
(a) Earnings Before Interest and Taxes of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal
period, plus (b) depreciation and amortization for such period,  plus  (c) other
non-cash charges for such period,  plus   (d) principal payments received
by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries during such period with respect to Direct
Finance Leases, all as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, after eliminating therefrom all extraordinary nonrecurring items of
income and expense."   

1.2.        Interest Coverage .  Section
6.1(d) of the Note Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its
entirety as follows:  

"(d)      Interest Coverage.  

(a)     The Company will not permit the ratio of (i)
Earnings Before Interest and Taxes to (ii) Consolidated Total Interest Expense
for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending during any
period set forth in the table below as measured on each Computation Date, to be
less than the ratio set forth opposite such period in such table:  

(b)    The Company will not permit the ratio of (i)
Consolidated EBITIDA to (ii) Consolidated Total Interest Expense for any period
of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending during any period set forth in the
table below as measured on each Computation Date, to be less than the ratio set
forth opposite such period in such table:  

2.     Representations and Warranties .  The Company
hereby represents and warrants to the Lender as follows:  

(a)     Representations and Warranties in Note Purchase
Agreement . The representations and warranties of the Company contained in
the Note Purchase Agreement were true and correct in all material respects when
made, and continue to be true and correct in all material respects on the date
hereof.  

(b)     Authority, Etc.  The execution and delivery by the Company of this
Amendment and the other documents delivered in connection herewith
(collectively, the "Amendment Documents") and the performance by the
Company of all of its agreements and obligations under the Amendment
Documents (i) are within the corporate authority of the Company, (ii) have
been duly authorized by all necessary corporate proceedings by the Company,
(iii) do not conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of any
provision of law, statute, rule or regulation to which the Company is subject
or any judgment, order, writ, injunction, license or permit applicable to the
Company, (iv) do not conflict with any provision of the corporate charter or
by-laws of, or any agreement or other instrument binding upon, the Company, and
(v) do not require the approval or consent of, or filing with, any Person other
than those already obtained.  

(c)     Enforceability of Obligations . The Amendment
Documents constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company,
enforceable against the Company in accordance with their respective
term.  

(d)     No Default . Immediately prior to and after
giving effect to this Amendment, no Default or Event of Default exists under the
Note Purchase Agreement or any Ancillary Document.  

3.     Affirmation of Company .   

The Company hereby affirms its absolutes and
unconditional promise to pay to the Lender all amounts due under the Note and
the Note Purchase Agreement, at the times and in the amounts provided for
therein. The Company further affirms and agrees that (i) the obligations of the
Company to the Lender under the Note Purchase Agreement as amended hereby are
secured by and entitled to the benefits of the Security Agreement, and (iii) all
references to the term "Note Purchase Agreement" in the Security
Agreement shall hereafter refer to the Note Purchase Agreement as amended
hereby.  

4.     Notice of Amendment to Bank Credit Agreement . 
The Lender acknowledges that it has received notice of the proposed Amendment
No. 3 to the Bank Credit Agreement, to be dated as of even date herewith, by and
among the Company, the Agent, the Co-Agent and the Banks (as each such term is
defined in the Bank Credit Agreement), as such notice is contemplated by Section
7.4 of the Note Purchase Agreement.  

5.     Miscellaneous Provisions .      

(a)   Except as otherwise expresely
provided by this Amendment, all of the terms, conditions and provisions of the
Note Purchase Agreement shall remain the same. It is declared and agreed by each
of the parties hereto that the Note Purchase Agreement, as amended hereby,
shall continue in full forth and effect, and that this Amendment and the Note
Purchase Agreement shall be read and construed as one instrument. Nothing
contained in this Amendment (i) shall be construed to imply a willingness on the
part of the Lender to grant any similar or other future amendment of any of the
terms and conditions of the Note Purchase Agreement and (ii) shall in any way
prejudice, impair or effect any rights or remedies of the Lender under the Note
Purchase Agreement.  

(b)    THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE
DEEMED TO HAVE BEEN MADE IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND THE VALIDITY OF THIS
AMENDMENT AND THE ENFORCEMENT HEREOF SHALL BE DETERMINED UNDER, GOVERNED BY AND
CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES
OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.   

(c)   This Amendment may be
executed in any number of counterparts, but all such counterparts shall together
constitute but one instrument. In making proof of this Amendment it shall not be
necessary to produce or account for more than one counterpart signed by each
party hereto by and against which enforcement hereof is sought.  

(d)    Headings or captions used in
this Amendment are for convenience of reference only and shall not define or
limit the provisions hereof.  

(e)    This Amendment shall
constitute one of the Ancillary Documents referred to in the Note Purchase
Agreement.   

  [remainder of this page intentionally left blank]  

             IN
WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have executed this Amendment as an
agreement under seal as of the date first written above.   

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS 
INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

INTERPOOL, INC.  

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

In
accordance with paragraph 19(a) of the Subordination and Intercreditor
Agreement, the undersigned, as Agent for the Banks referred to in the
Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement, hereby consents to the amendments
contemplated by    1 of this Amendment.  

FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as Agent for 
the Banks  

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

INDEX OF CLOSING DOCUMENTS 

Note Purchase Agreement 
between 
Interpool, Inc. and Container Applications International, Inc. 
April 30, 1998  

    PARTIES    

"Mitsui" 
"Mitsui USA" 
"Sellers" 
"Mr. Ogawa" 
"CAI" 
"Interpool" 
"LLC" 
"IP Ltd." 
"BankBoston" 
"MDB E" 
"SSL" 
"HWS B" 
"BD" 
 Mitsui   Co. Ltd. 
Mitsui   Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. 
Mitsui   Mitsui USA 
Mr. Hiromitsu Ogawa 
Container Applications International, Inc. 
Interpoo1, Inc. 
CAI/Interpool, LLC 
Interpool Limited 
BankBoston, N.A. 
McCutchen, Doyle, Brown   Enersen, LLP 
Stroock   Stroock   Lavan 
Hosie, Wes, Sacks,   Brelsford, LLP 
Bingham, Dana   Gould, LLP 

DOCUMENT   
   TAB   

PRINCIPAL AGREEMENTS  

Note Purchase Agreement, together with all Exhibits and
Schedules, dated as of April 30, 1998 
(the "Note Purchase Agreement") between Interpool anal CAI 
  1 

Disclosure Statement for the Note Purchase Agreement 
 2 

Operating and Administration Agreement, dated as of
April 29, 1998 between IP Ltd. and CAI 
 4 

Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement dated as of
April 30, 1998 among BankBoston, CAI 
and Interpool 
  8 

Fourth Restated Revolving Credit and Term Agreement
dated as of Apri1 30, 1998 between 
BankBoston and CAI 
  9 

CORPORATE AUTHORITY DOCUMENTS  

Officer's Certificate of CAI dated as of April 30,
1998, delivered pursuant to Section 3.1 of 
the Note Purchase Agreement in the form of Exhibit C 
  12 

Secretary's Certificate of CAI dated as of April 30,
1998, delivered pursuant to Section 3.1 
of the Note Purchase Agreement, regarding (i) Articles of Incorporation, 
(ii) By-laws, (iii) Resolutions and (iv) Incumbency of Officers 
   13 

Good Standing Certificate of CAI certified as of April
9, 1998 by the Secretary of State of Nevada 
 14 

Corporate Diagram of CAI including all subsidiaries 
 15 

Certificates of status as foreign corporations eligible
to do business in the states of (a) California 
and (b) South Carolina for CAI. 
  16 

CAI's certified Pro Forma Balance Sheet and Cash Flow
Projections as required pursuant to 
Section 3.1 of the Note Purchase Agreement 
  17 

Unanimous Written Consent of CAI authorizing and
adopting the Note Purchase Agreement and entering into the Note 
 18 

Receipt by Interpool of the Note from CAI 
 20 

OPINIONS OF COUNSEL  

Opinion of HWS B, as counsel to CAI, regarding the Note
Purchase Agreement 
 21 

Opinion of SSL, as counsel to Interpool, regarding the
Subordinated Debt 
 22 

MISCELLANEOUS DOCUMENTS AND AGREEMENTS  

Side Letter Escrow Agreement dated as of February 5,
1958 between Interpool, CAI and 
Mr. Ogawa 
  23 

Resignations of Yasushi Matsuoka, Eiichi Nakanishi,
Kosuke Sekine and Koichi Suzuki as 
directors and/or officers of CAI 
  24 

Agreement Regarding CAI Executive Management Incentive
Program dated as of April 30, 1998 
between CAI, Mr. Ogawa and Interpool 
  25 

Articles of Organization and Certificate of Formation
of the LLC 
 26 

Operating Agreement of the LLC 
 27 

Marketing Services Agreement between the LLC and IP
Ltd.. 
 29 

Marketing Services Agreement between the LLC and CAI 
 30 

Side Letter Agreement regarding the Marketing Services
Agreement among CAI, IP Ltd. and the LLC 
 31 

UCC-2 Financing Statement filed with the Secretary of
State of California, the San Francisico 
County Recorder and the Secretary of State of Nevada by Sellers 
  32 

UCC-l Financing Statement filed with the Secretary of
State of California w/Exhibits A 
and B attached describing both the Collateral and Excluded Collateral 
  33 

Wire Instruction from CAI to Interpool 
 35 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 20
 interpool-ex1059_030906.htm
 EX-10.59

Exhibit 10.59 

AMENDMENT NO. 3   

   to that certain 
NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
dated as of April 30, 1998   

This
 AMENDMENT NO. 3  (this   "Amendment"  ), dated as of June 27,
2002, is by and between  CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. , a Nevada corporation
(the   "Company"  ) and  INTERPOOL, INC.,  a Delaware
corporation   ("Lender").   Capitalized terms used herein
without definition shall have the respective meanings provided therefor in the Note
Purchase Agreement referred to below.   

WHEREAS ,
the Company and the Lender are parties to that certain Note Purchase Agreement, dated as
of April 30, 1998 (as amended, modified, supplemented or restated and in effect on the
date hereof, the   "Note Purchase Agreement"  ), pursuant to
which the Lender, upon certain terms and conditions, has purchased a subordinated
promissory note from the Company;   

WHEREAS ,
the Company has requested that the Lender amend certain of the terms and provisions of the
Note Purchase Agreement as set forth herein; and   

WHEREAS ,
subject to the terms and provisions hereof the Lender has agreed to amend the Note
Purchase Agreement as hereinafter provided.   

NOW
THEREFORE , the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:   

1.  Amendments to Note
Purchase Agreement.   Subject to the consent of the Administrative Agent
on behalf of the Lenders (as each such term is defined in the Bank Credit
Agreement), the Note Purchase Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

1.1.  Definitions .  Section 1.1
of the Note Purchase Agreement is amended as follows:   

(a) The following new definitions are hereby
added to such Section 1.1 in their appropriate places in the alphabetical order:

"Consolidated
EBITDAR" shall mean, with respect to any fiscal period of the Company and its
Subsidiaries, an amount equal to the sum of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for such fiscal period
 plus  (b) consolidated rental expense for such fiscal period as determined in accordance
with GAAP.  

"Synthetic
Lease" shall mean any lease of goods or other property, whether real or personal,
which is treated as an operating lease under GAAP and as a loan or financing for U.S.
income tax purposes.  

"Third
Amendment Effective Date" shall mean June 27, 2002.   

(b) The definition of "Earnings Before
Interest and Taxes" is hereby deleted in its entirety.   

(c) The following existing definitions are
hereby amended and restated in their entirety as follows:   

"Bank
Credit Agreement" shall mean the Fifth Restated Revolving Credit and Term Loan
Agreement, dated as of June 27 2002, among the Company, Fleet National Bank (f/k/a
BankBoston, N.A.), as administrative agent, and the other lenders from time to time party
thereto and as it may be further amended, modified, supplemented or restated from time to
time with such consent, if any, of the Noteholders as is required under the Subordination
and Intercreditor Agreement.  

"Consolidated
EBITDA" shall mean, with respect to any fiscal period, an amount equal to the sum of
(a) Consolidated Net Income (or Deficit) of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such
fiscal period,  plus  (b) in each case to the extent deducted in the calculation of such
Person's Consolidated Net Income and without duplication, (i} depreciation and
amortization for such period,  plus  (ii) income tax expense for such period,  plus  (iii)
Consolidated Total Interest Expense paid or accrued during such period,  plus  (iv) other
noncash charges for such period,  plus  (v) principal payments received by the Company or
any of its Subsidiaries during such period with respect to Direct Finance Leases, all as
determined in accordance with GAAP.  

"Consolidated
Net Income (or Deficit)" shall mean, the consolidated net income (or deficit) of the
Company and its Subsidiaries, after deduction of all expenses, taxes, and other proper
charges, determined in accordance with GAAP, after eliminating therefrom all extraordinary
items of income or loss.  

"Consolidated
Operating Cash Flow" shall mean, with respect to any fiscal period of the Company and
its Subsidiaries, an amount equal to (i) Consolidated EBITDAR for such fiscal period  minus 
(ii) cash interest expense for such fiscal period  minus  (iii) cash income tax expense for
such period, in each case, as determined in accordance with GAAP.  

"Consolidated
Senior Debt" shall mean, at any time of determination, with respect to the Company
and its Subsidiaries, the sum, without duplication, of (a) the aggregate amount of
Indebtedness (excluding Subordinated Debt) of the Company and its Subsidiaries, on a
consolidated basis, relating to (i) the borrowing of money or the obtaining of credit,
including the issuance of notes or bonds, (ii) the deferred purchase price of assets
(other than trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of business), (iii) Capitalized
Leases, (iv) Rental Obligations, and (v) the maximum drawing amount of all letters of
credit outstanding  plus  (b) Indebtedness of the type referred to in clause (a) of another
Person guaranteed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.  

"Consolidated
Total Debt Service" shall mean, with respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries as
of any Computation Date, for the period specified in the applicable covenant ending on
such Computation Date (the "Test Period"), the sum, without duplication, of (a) any
and all scheduled repayments of principal made during the fiscal period to which such
Computation Date relates in respect of Debt that becomes due and payable or that are to
become due and payable during such fiscal period pursuant to any agreement or instrument
to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party relating to (i) the borrowing
of money or the obtaining of credit, including the issuance of notes or bonds, (ii) the
deferred purchase price of assets (other than trade payables incurred in the ordinary
course of business), (iii) in respect of any Synthetic Leases or Capitalized Leases, (iv)
in respect of any reimbursement obligations in respect of letters of credit due and
payable during such period, and (v) Debt of the type referred to above of another Person
guaranteed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries  plus  (b) one tenth (1/10) of the
average daily outstanding amount of the Revolving Credit Loans during such fiscal period
 plus  (c) payments made during such period in respect of operating leases. Demand
obligations shall be deemed to be due and payable during any fiscal period during which
such obligations are outstanding.  

"Consolidated
Total Interest Expense" shall mean for any period, the aggeregate amount of interest
required to be paid or accrued by the Company and its Subsidiaries during such period on
all Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries outstanding during all or any part of such
period, whether such interest was or is required to be reflected as an item of expense or
capitalized, including payments consisting of interest in respect of any Capitalized Lease
or any Synthetic Lease, and including commitment fees, agency fees, facility fees, balance
deficiency fees and similar fees or expenses in connection with the borrowing of money.  

"Debt"
shall mean, as to any Person and whether recourse is secured by or is otherwise available
against all or only a portion of the assets of such Person and whether or not contingent,
but without duplication:  

(a) every obligation of such Person for money borrowed,   

(b) every obligation of such Person evidenced by bonds,
debentures, notes or other similar instruments, including obligations incurred
in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or businesses, 
 
          (c) every
reimbursement obligation of such Person with respect to letters of credit,
bankers' acceptances or similar facilities issued for the account of such
Person, 
 
          (d) every obligation
of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property of
services (including securities repurchase agreements but excluding trade
accounts payable or accrued liabilities arising in the ordinary course of
business which are not overdue or which are being contested in good faith), 
 
          (e) every obligation
of such Person under any Capitalized Lease, 
 
          (f) every obligation
of such Person under any Synthetic Lease, 
 
          (g) all sales by
such Person of (i) accounts or general intangibles for money due
or to become due, (ii) chattel paper, instruments or documents creating or
evidencing a right to payment of money or (iii) other receivables (collectively
" receivables "), whether pursuant to a purchase facility or otherwise,
other than in connection with the disposition of the business operations of such
Person relating thereto or a disposition of defaulted receivables for collection
and not as a financing arrangement, and together with any obligation of such
Person to pay any discount, interest, fees, indemnities, penalties, recourse,
expenses or other amounts in connection therewith, 
 
          (h) every obligation
of such Person (an " equity   related   purchase   obligation ")
to purchase, redeem, retire or otherwise acquire for
value any shares of Capital Stock issued by such Person or any rights measured
by the value of such Capital Stock, 
 
          (i) every obligation
of such Person under any forward contract, futures contract, swap, option or
other financing agreement or arrangement (including, without limitation, caps,
floors, collars and similar agreements), the value of which is dependent upon
interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodities or other indices (a
" derivative contract "), 
 
          (j)
every obligation in respect of Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership
in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent that such Person is liable
therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship
with such entity, except to the extent that the terms of such Indebtedness provide that
such Person is not liable therefor and such terms are enforceable under applicable law, 
 
          (k) every
obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing, or having the
economic effect of guarantying or otherwise acting as surety for, any obligation
of a type described in any of clauses (a) through (j) (the " primary
obligation ") of another Person (the " primary obligor "), in any
manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including, without limitation, any
obligation of such Person (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for
the purchase of) any security for the payment of such primary obligation, (ii)
to purchase property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the
payment of such primary obligation, or (iii) to maintain working capital, equity
capital or other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary
obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such primary obligation, and 
 
          (l) all Rental
Obligations of such Person.   

The
" amount " or " principal amount " of any Debt at any time
of determination represented by (i) any Debt issued at a price that is less than the
principal amount at maturity thereof, shall be the amount of the liability in respect
thereof determined in accordance with GAAP, (ii) any Capitalized Lease shall be the
principal component of the aggregate of the rental obligation under such Capitalized Lease
payable over the term thereof that is not subject to termination by the lessee, (iii) any
sale of receivables shall be the amount of unrecovered capital or principal investment of
the purchaser (other than the Company or any of its wholly-owned Subsidiaries) thereof,
excluding amounts representative of yield or interest earned on such investment, (iv) any
Synthetic Lease shall be the stipulated loss value, termination value or other equivalent
amount, (v) any derivative contract shall be the maximum amount of any termination or loss
payment required to be paid by such Person if such derivative contract were, at the time
of determination, to be terminated by reason of any event of default or early termination
event thereunder, whether or not such event of default or early termination event has in
fact occurred, (vi) any equity related purchase obligation shall be the maximum fixed
redemption or purchase price thereof inclusive of any accrued and unpaid dividends to be
comprised in such redemption or purchase price, and (vii) any guaranty or other contingent
liability referred to in clause (k) shall be an amount equal to the stated or determinable
amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such guaranty or other contingent
obligation is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated
liability in respect thereof (assuming such Person is required to perform thereunder) as
determined by such Person in good faith.  

"Maturity
Date" shall mean the thirteenth anniversary of the Funding Date.  

"Permitted
Liens" shall mean: (i) liens in favor of the Company on all or part of the assets of
Subsidiaries of the Company securing indebtedness owing by Subsidiaries of the Company to
the Company; (ii) liens to secure taxes, assessments and other government charges in
respect of obligations not overdue or liens on properties to secure claims for labor,
material or supplies in respect of obligations not overdue; (iii) deposits or pledges made
in connection with, or to secure payment of, workmen's compensation, unemployment
insurance, old age pensions or other social security obligations; (iv) liens on properties
in respect of judgments or awards, the Debt with respect to which is permitted by Section
9.1(c) of the Bank Credit Agreement; (v) liens of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics and
materialmen, and other like liens on properties in existence less than 120 days from the
date of creation thereof in respect of obligations not overdue; (vi) encumbrances on real
estate consisting of easements, rights of way, zoning restrictions, restrictions on the
use of real property and defects and irregularities in the title thereto, landlord's
or lessor's liens under leases to which the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company
is a party, and other minor liens or encumbrances none of which interferes materially with
the use of the property affected in the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company
and its Subsidiaries, which defects do not individually or in the aggregate have a
materially adverse effect on the business of the Company individually or of the Company
and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; (vii) liens listed on Schedule 9.2 to the
Bank Credit Agreement; (viii) security interests in or mortgages on real or personal
property acquired or leased after the Effective Date to secure Debt of the type and amount
permitted by Section 9.1(f) or Section 9.1(g) of the Bank Credit Agreement, and proceeds
thereof (including without limitation leases, accounts receivable, instruments and
documents) which security interests or mortgages cover only the real or personal property
so acquired or leased; (ix) liens on assets and property of the Company in favor of
Purchaser; (x) liens in favor of the Banks and the agent therefor under the Loan Documents
(as defined in the Bank Credit Agreement); (xi) liens consisting of the interest of
lessees under leases of containers where the Company is lessor; (xii) liens on the
property listed on Schedule 9.2 to the Bank Credit Agreement which are granted to secure
any refinancing or renewal of Debt permitted under Section 9.1 which refinancing or
renewal is permitted under Section 9.1(h) of the Bank Credit Agreement (subject to all the
provisos contained therein) provided, that (a) such liens encumber the same property (and
no additional assets or property of the company) as secured the Debt that was so
refinanced or renewed and (b) the aggregate amount of Debt secured by such property has not
increased as a result of such refinancing or renewal; and (xiii) the interests of lessors
in property leased to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company under Section 9.1(f) or
9.1(g) of the Bank Credit Agreement.  

" Staff
Loan Program " shall mean a program administered by the Company pursuant
to which the Company makes loans to employees;  provided , that the aggregate principal
amount of loans outstanding at any time under such program shall not exceed $1,500,000,
and that no more than an aggregate of $100,000 of which may be unsecured.  

1.2.  Time and Place of Payments;
Interest Rate; Payment of Principal and Interest under the Note .  Section 2.3(c)
of the Note Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the reference to
"Section 2(b)(i)" in the first sentence thereof and replacing it with
"Section 3(b)".   

1.3  Prepayment .    

(i) Section 2.6(a) of the Note Purchase
Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the words "Subject to the terms
and conditions of the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement, the" at
the beginning of the first sentence thereof.   

(ii) Section 2.6(b) of the Note Purchase
Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:   

"Mandatory
Prepayments. Unless prepaid in accordance with the terms hereof, Company shall pay
consecutive quarterly installments of principal with respect to the Note, without demand,
beginning on the thirty-third Quarterly Payment Date after the Funding Date and on each
Quarterly Payment Date thereafter through, and including, the Maturity Date. The amount of
such installment shall be equal to the remaining principal balance of the Note divided by
the number of remaining scheduled mandatory principal payments (including the prepayment
then to be made)."  

1.4.  Financial Statements and Other
Information .  Section 5.8(m) of the Note Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by
replacing the reference to "Section 8.4(i)" with the reference
"Section 8.4(k)".   

1.5.  Consolidated
Adjusted Tangible Net Worth .  Section 6.1(b) of the
Note Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety.   

1.6.  Interest Coverage . 
Section 6.1(d) of the Note Purchase Agreement is hereby amended and
restated in its entirety as follows:   

"(d) Interest Coverage. The Company
will not permit the ratio of (i) Consolidated EBITDA to (ii) Consolidated Total
Interest Expense for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending
during any period set forth in the table below as measured on each Computation
Date, to be less than the ratio set forth site such period in such table:

1.7.  Investments.   Section 6.3(e)
of the Note Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the term
"Loan Program" with the term "Staff Loan Program".

2.  Representations and
Warranties .  The Company hereby represents and warrants to the
Lender as follows:   

(a)
 Representations and Warranties in Note Purchase Agreement . The
representations and warranties of the Company contained in the Note Purchase
Agreement were true and correct in all material respects when made, and continue
to be true and correct in all material respects on the date hereof, except to
the extent that such representations expressly relate to an earlier date.

(b)
                Authority, Etc.  The execution and delivery by the Company
               of this Amendment and the other documents delivered in connection herewith
               (collectively, the "  Amendment Documents  ") and the performance by the
               Company of all of its agreements and obligations under the Amendment Documents
               (i) are within the corporate authority of the Company, (ii) have been duly
               authorized by all necessary corporate proceedings by the Company, (iii) do not
               conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of any provision of law,
               statute, rule or regulation to which the Company is subject or any judgment,
               order, writ, injunction, license or permit applicable to the Company, (iv) do
               not conflict with any provision of the corporate charter or by-laws of, or any
               agreement or other instrument binding upon, the Company, and (v) do not require
               the approval or consent of, or filing with, any Person other than those already
               obtained.    

(c)
 Enforceability of Obligations . The Amendment
Documents constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company,
enforceable against the Company in accordance with their respective terms.

(d)
                No Default . Immediately prior to and after giving effect to this
               Amendment, no Default or Event of Default exists under the Note Purchase
               Agreement or any Ancillary Document.    

3.
           Affirmation of Company .  The Company hereby affirms
          its absolute and unconditional promise to pay to the Lender all amounts due
          under the Note and the Note Purchase Agreement, at the times and in the amounts
          provided for therein. The Company further affirms and agrees that (i) the
          obligations of the Company to the Lender under the Note Purchase Agreement as
          amended hereby are secured by and entitled to the benefits of the Security
          Agreement, and (iii) all references to the term "Note Purchase
          Agreement" in the Security Agreement shall hereafter refer to the Note
          Purchase Agreement as amended hereby.   

4.  Notice of Amendment to Bank Credit
Agreement .  The Lender acknowledges that it has received notice of the proposed
Fifth Restated Revolving Credit Agreement to be entered into by and among the
Company, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (as each such term is defined
in the Bank Credit Agreement), as such notice is contemplated by Section 7.4 of
the Note Purchase Agreement.   

5.  Condition to Effectiveness . 
This Amendment shall become effective upon receipt by each of the Lender and the
Administrative Agent of a fully-executed copy hereof.   

6.  Miscellaneous Provisions.     

(a)
               Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Amendment, all of the
               terms, conditions and provisions of the Note Purchase Agreement shall remain the
               same. It is declared and agreed by each of the parties hereto that the Note
               Purchase Agreement, as amended hereby, shall continue in full force and effect,
               and that this Amendment and the Note Purchase Agreement shall be read and
               construed as one instrument. Nothing contained in this Amendment (i) shall be
               construed to imply a willingness on the part of the Lender to grant any similar
               or other future amendment of any of the terms and conditions of the Note
               Purchase Agreement and (ii) shall in any way prejudice, impair or effect arty
               rights or remedies of the Lender under the Note Purchase Agreement.    

(b)
               THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE BEEN MADE IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK
               AND THE VALIDITY OF THIS AMENDMENT AND THE ENFORCEMENT HEREOF SHALL BE
               DETERMINED UNDER, GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF NEW
               YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.     

(c)
               This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, but all such
               counterparts shall together constitute but one instrument. In making proof of
               this Amendment it shall not be necessary to produce or account for more than one
               counterpart signed by each party hereto by and against which enforcement hereof
               is sought.    

(d)
               Headings or captions used in this Amendment are for convenience of reference
               only and shall not define or limit the provisions hereof.    

(e)
               This Amendment shall constitute one of the Ancillary Documents referred to in
               the Note Purchase Agreement.    

[remainder of this page intentionally left blank]   

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment as an agreement
under seal as of the date first written above.   

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS 
INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 
 
 INTERPOOL, INC.  

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

In
accordance with paragraph 19(a) of the Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement, the
undersigned, as Administrative Agent for the Lenders referred to in the Subordination and
Intercreditor Agreement, hereby consents to the amendments contemplated by   1 of
this Amendment.   

FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as 
Administrative Agent for the Lenders  

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 21
 interpool-ex1060_030906.htm
 EX-10.60

Exhibit 10.60 

AMENDMENT NO. 4    

   to that certain 
NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
dated as of April 30, 1998   

This
 AMENDMENT NO. 4  (this "  Amendment  "), dated as of February 25, 2003, is by and
between  CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. , a Nevada corporation (the
"  Company  ") and  INTERPOOL, INC. , a Delaware corporation
("  Lender  "). Capitalized terms used herein without
definition shall have the respective meanings provided therefor in the Note Purchase
Agreement referred to below.   

WHEREAS ,
the Company and the Lender are parties to that certain Note Purchase Agreement, dated as
of April 30, 1998 (as amended, modified, supplemented or restated and in effect on the date
hereof, the "  Note Purchase Agreement  "), pursuant to which
the Lender, upon certain terms and conditions, has purchased a subordinated promissory
note from the Company;   

WHEREAS ,
the Company has requested that the Lender amend certain of the terms and provisions of the
Note Purchase Agreement as set forth herein; and   

WHEREAS ,
subject to the terms and provisions hereof the Lender has agreed to amend the Note Purchase
Agreement as hereinafter provided.   

NOW
THEREFORE , the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:   

1. 
  Amendments to Note Purchase Agreement .  Subject to the consent of
          the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders (as each such term is defined
          in the Bank Credit Agreement), the Note Purchase Agreement is hereby
          amended as follows:   

1.1.    Definitions . 
Section 1.1 of the Notc Purchase Agreement is amended as follows:

The
definition of "Consolidated Total Debt Service" is hereby amended by deleting
clause (c) of the first sentence of such definition and replacing it with the following
new text: "consolidated rental expense for such period as determined in accordance
with GAAP."  

2.    Representations and
Warranties .  The Company hereby represents and warrants to the Lender as
follows:   

(a)  Representations and Warranties in
Note Purchase Agreement . The representations and warranties of the Company
contained in the Note Purchase Agreement were true and correct in all material
respects when made, and continue to be true and correct in all material respects
on the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations expressly
relate to an earlier date.   

(b)  Authority, Etc. 
The execution and delivery by the Company of this Amendment and the other
documents delivered in connection herewith (collectively, the   "Amendment
Documents"  ) and the performance by the Company of all of its agreements and
obligations under the Amendment Documents (i) are within the corporate authority
of the Company, (ii) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate
proceedings by the Company, (iii) do not conflict with or result in any breach
or contravention of any provision of law, statute, rule or regulation to which
the Company is subject or any judgment, order, writ, injunction, license or
permit applicable to the Company, (iv) do not conflict with any provision of the
corporate charter or by-laws of, or any agreement or other instrument binding
upon, the Company, and (v) do not require the approval or consent of, or filing
with, any Person other than those already obtained. 
 
          (c)
 Enforceability of Obligations . The Amendment Documents constitute
the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the
Company in accordance with their respective terms. 
 
          (d)  No
Default . Immediately prior to and after giving effect to this
Amendment, no Default or Event of Default exists under the Note Purchase
Agreement or any Ancillary Document.   

3.    Affirmation of
Company .  The Company hereby affirms its absolute and
unconditional promise to pay to the Lender all amounts due under the Note and
the Note Purchase Agreement, at the times and in the amounts provided for
therein. The Company further affirms and agrees that (i) the obligations of the
Company to the Lender under the Note Purchase Agreement as amended hereby are
secured by and entitled to the benefits of the Security Agreement, and (iii) all
references to the term "Note Purchase Agreement" in the Security Agreement shall
hereafter refer to the Note Purchase Agreement as amended hereby.   

4.    Notice of Amendment to Bank
Credit Agreement .  The Lender acknowledges that it has received notice of the
proposed Waiver and Amendment No. 2 to the Fifth Restated Revolving Credit
Agreement (the "Credit Agreement Amendment") to be entered into by and among
the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (as each such term is
defined in the Bank Credit Agreement), as such notice is contemplated by Section
7.4 of the Note Purchase Agreement.   

5.    Miscellaneous Provisions .    

(a)
The amendment set forth in Section 1.1 shall be contingent upon the
effectiveness of the Credit Agreement Amendment and (upon satisfaction of said
contingency) shall be effective the date of the Credit Agreement Amendment. 
 
          (b) Except as
otherwise expressly provided by this Amendment, all of the terms, conditions and
provisions of the Note Purchase Agreement shall remain the same. It is declared
and agreed by each of the parties hereto that the Note Purchase Agrcement, as
amended hereby, shall continue in full force and effect, and that this Amendment
and the Note Purchase Agreement shall be read and construed as one instrument.
Nothing contained in this Amendment (i) shall be construed to imply a
willingness on the part of the Lender to grant any similar or other future
amendment of any of the terms and conditions of the Note Purchase Agreement and
(ii) shall in any way prejudice, impair or effect any rights or remedies of the
Lender under the Note Purchase Agreement. 
 
          (c)  THIS AMENDMENT
SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE BEEN MADE IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND THE VALIDITY OF
THIS AMENDMENT AND THE ENFORCEMENT HEREOF SHALL BE DETERMINED UNDER, GOVERNED BY
AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO
PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.  
 
          (d) This Amendment
may be executed in any number of counterparts, but all such counterparts shall
together constitute but one instrument. In making proof of this Amendment it
shall not be necessary to produce or account for more than one counterpart
signed by each party hereto by and against which enforrernent hereof is sought. 
 
          (e) Headings or
captions used in this Amendment are for convenience of reference only and shall
not define or limit the provisions hereof. 
 
          (f) This Amendment
shall constitute one of the Ancillary Documents referred to in the Note Purohase
Agreement. 

[remainder of this page intentionally left blank]   

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties hereto have executed this Amendment as an agreement under
seal as of the date first written above.   

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS 
INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

INTERPOOL, INC.  

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

In
accordance with paragraph 19(a) of the Subordination and Intercreditor Ageement, the
undersigned, as Administrative Agent for the Lenders referred to in the Subordination and
lntercreditor Agreement, hereby consents to the amendments contemplated by  1 of this
Amendment.   

FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as 
Administrative Agent for the Lenders  

By:            

Name: Victor Garcia 
       Title: Managing Director 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 22
 interpool-ex1061_030906.htm
 EX-10.61

Exhibit 10.61 

AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO
SHAREHOLDER'S AGREEEMENT    

THIS
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO SHAREHOLDER'S AGREEMENT ("Amendment") is entered
into as of March 29, 2002 among CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC., a Nevada
Corporation (the "Company"), INTERPOOL, INC., a Delaware Corporation
("IP") and MR. HIROMITSU OGAWA ("Mr. Ogawa").   

Section
l.  Recitals of Fact .   

The
Company, IP and Mr. Ogawa are parties to a Shareholder's Agreement dated as of
Apri129, 1998 (the "Shareholder's Agreement"). Capitalized terms used
herein which are not otherwise defined shall have the meaning given to such terms in the
Shareholder's Agreement.   

In
connection with a proposed amendment to the Bank Loan Agreement, Fleet National Bank
(f/k/a BankBoston, N.A. and Fleet Bank, N.A.), a national banking association and the
other lending institutions from time to time party to the Bank Loan Agreement (the
"Banks") have requested that IP agree to extend the amortization schedule of the
subordinated note issued pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement (the "Subordinated
Note").   

Section
2.  Extension of Required Principal Payments .   

In
consideration for the agreements of the Company and Mr. Ogawa hereunder, IP agrees to
extend the amortization schedule of the Subordinated Note so that no payments of
principal on the Subordinated Note will be required until the date which is one (1) year
after the maturity of the Company's indebtedness under the Bank Loan Agreement (i.e.,
four (4) years after the closing of the proposed amendment to the Bank Loan Agreement).   

Section
3.  Agreements Regarding the Company's Board of Directors .   

(a) The Company and Mr. Ogawa agree that
a special shareholder's meeting will be called within ten (10) days after IP
amends the Subordinated Note in compliance with Section 2 of this Amendment to
elect an additional director of the Company, to be nominated by IP (the
"Additional IP Director"). To the extent necessary, the Company's bylaws will be
amended to provide for such additional director.   

(b) At such time as the Subordinated Note is
paid in full, and in the event the Additional IP Director is then remaining on
the Board, Mr. Ogawa shall be entitled to appoint an additional representative
to the Company's Board of Directors; it being the intent and understanding of
the parties that at such time Mr. Ogawa shall have representatives on the
Company's Board of Directors equal in number to the representatives of IP.

(c) The parties reaffirm their
understandings that directors of the Company are fiduciaries, who for so long as the
fair value of the Company's assets exceed the fair value of the Company's
indebtedness, are obligated to act in the best interest of the shareholders
rather than its creditors.  

Section 4.  Agreements Regarding
the Company's Chief Executive Officer .   

The
parties acknowledge that notwithstanding the addition of a third
representative of lP on the Company's Board of Directors, Mr. Ogawa shall
continue as the Company's Chief Executive Officer and shall continue to exercise the
power currently exercised by him as Chief Executive Officer, including the exclusive right
to hire and fire employees of the Company in the ordinary course of business, it being
understood that the consent of the Board shall continue to be required for the following
actions:   

(a) sale of capital equipment in material
quantities outside of the ordinary course of business;   

(b) acquisitions of capital equipment
as established by the Board;   

(c) incurrence of debt as established by the
Board;   

(d) hiring or firing of a material number
of employees, including all officers.   

Section 5.  Other Requests by
Intetpool .   

Mr. Ogawa agrees to enter into a
dialogue with IP within sixty (60) days as to relations between the Company
and IP, including the requests contained in paragraph's 2 through 7 of the
letter dated March 27, 2002 from Christopher N. Fermanis, Corporate Counsel to
IP, it being understood that (a) such dialogue shall not include any proposal
for the further impairment of the debt evidenced by the Subordinated Note; and
(b) no actions taken as a result of such dialogue shall result in the agreement
to further impair the debt evidenced by the Subordinated Note.   

Section 6.  Miscellaneous .   

Except
as provided herein, the terms of the Shareholders Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect.   

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment is entered into as of the date above set forth.   

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS 
INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

By:            

INTERPOOL, INC. 

By:            

Mr. Hiromitsu Ogawa 

Execution Copy   

   CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
 
 SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT    

SHAREHOLDERS
AGREEMENT dated as of Apri1 29, 1998 among CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC., a
Nevada corporation (the "Company"), INTERPOOL, INC., a Delaware corporation
("IP"), and MR. HIROMITSU OGAWA ("Ogawa").   

RECITALS   

WHEREAS,
IP and Ogawa have entered into a stock purchase agreement dated as of January 31, 1998 (the
"Stock Purchase Agreement") with Mitsui   Co., Ltd. and Mitsui   Co.
(USA) Inc. (collectively, "Mitsui") providing for the purchase by IP and Ogawa
from Mitsui of certain shares of common stock of the Company for an aggregate
consideration of $12,501,945.53 (in the case of IP) and $248,054.47 (in the case of
Ogawa);   

WHEREAS,
the transactions contemplated by the Stock Purchase Agreement are being consummated
simultaneously with entering into this Agreement;   

WHEREAS,
simultaneously with entering into this Agreement, the parties are entering into the
following other agreements and transactions:   

A. A subordinated note purchase agreement of
even date herewith (the "Note Purchase Agreement") providing for IP's purchase
from the Company of its Subordinated Secured Notes for an aggregate purchase
price of $33,650,000; and    

B. An intercreditor and subordination
agreement of even date herewith (the "Intercreditor Agreement") between IP and
The First National Bank of Boston, as agent under the Revolving Credit and Term
Loan Agreement dated as of [July 30, 1992] (as amended to the date hereof) (the
"Bank Loan Agreement") among the Company, The First National Bank of Boston, as
Agent and the Banks identified therein.    

The
Stock Purchase Agreement, the Note Purchase Agreement, the Intercreditor
Agreement, this Agreement and the other agreements between the Company and IP
being entered into as of the date hereof are herein collectively referred to as
the "Related Agreements," and the transactions contemplated by the Related Agreements are
herein collectively referred to as the "Related Transactions."   

WHEREAS,
in connection with the entry into the other Related Agreements and the Related
Transactions, the parties hereto wish to impose restrictions on the transfer of certain
shares, and to grant IP certain option rights, and to state the parties' agreement
with respect to certain claims that might otherwise be asserted against IP; and   

WHEREAS,
the parties believe a Shareholders Agreement to be the means best suited to achieving
these objectives;   

NOW,
THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration the parties hereby agree as follows.   

SECTION 1.  DEFINITIONS .   

1.1
As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the following meanings. Additional
capitalized terms are defined elsewhere in this Agreement.   

Agreement :
This Shareholders' Agreement, as amended or supplemented from time to time in
accordance with its terms.   

Competitor :
Any Person which engages, either directly or indirectly, in any business activity that
competes with any significant aspect of the business of leasing transportation equipment
in which IP is actively engaged at the time in question.   

Covered
Shares : All Shares beneficially owned by Mr. Ogawa or IP as of the date of this
Agreement (whether such shares continue to be so owned or become owned by any direct or
remote transferee of or successor to Mr. Ogawa or IP), or any Shares distributed with
respect to or received in exchange for Covered Shares or into which Covered Shares have
been or may be converted;  provided ,  however , that any Covered Shares
shall for all purposes cease to be Covered Shares (i) upon acquisition of such Covered
Shares by the Company or (ii) upon transfer of such Covered Shares pursuant to a
registration statement under the Securities Act or pursuant to Rule 144 (or any successor
rule) under the Securities Act.   

Involuntary
Transfer : Any sale, assignment, transfer, exchange or other disposition arising
by operation of law including, without limitation, involuntary dissolution of a
non-individual shareholder and any sale to satisfy a judgment (except a judgment
specifically enforcing an agreement of sale or other transfer entered into by the
shareholder).   

Optionee
Shareholder : With respect to any Shares beneficially owned by Mr. Ogawa as of
the date of this Agreement, IP, to the extent it holds Shares at the time in question, and
any direct or remote transferee of Shares previously owned by IP (whenever and however IP
acquired such Shares), or with respect to any Shares beneficially owned by IP as of the
date of this Agreement, Mr. Ogawa, to the extent he holds Shares at the time in
question, and any direct or remote transferee of Shares previously owned by Mr. Ogawa
(whenever and however Mr. Ogawa acquired such Shares).   

Purchasing
Party : Any Person giving written notice under Section 3.4 hereof of intent to
purchase Covered Shares under an option granted by Section 3 hereof.   

Ready
Fair Market Value : The value at which property is reasonably assured of being
sold, under then-current market conditions, within 6 months after the search for the buyer
commences, to a buyer fully informed as to the assets. liabilities, contingent
liabilities. opportunities and risks associated with such property. In the case of stock,
it shall be determined by allocating the Ready Fair Market Value of the corporation as a
whole among its outstanding shares, on a fully diluted basis, according to their
respective rights, without any minority interest or illiquidity discount. The Ready Fair
Market Value of a corporation shall be based on an assumed sale of all its outstanding
stock, on a fully diluted basis, coupled with the simultaneous refinancing of all its
outstanding subordinated indebtedness.   

Securities
Act : The Securities Act of 1933, as amended.   

Selling
Shareholder : Any holder of Covered Shares who has given an Offer Notice
pursuant to Section 3.2 or with respect to whom a Triggering Event has occurred, or the
legal representative of such holder.   

             Shares : Shares of the Company's common stock, no par value, as the same may be
constituted from time to time.  

Transfer :
A Voluntary Transfer or Involuntary Transfer.   

Triggering
Event :   As defined in Section 3.3 hereof.   

Voluntary
Transfer : Any sale, assignment, transfer, exchange or other disposition which
did not arise by operation of law; and shall include, without limitation, a sale for cash,
obligations or any other property or services, a hypothecation, the exercise of a right of
foreclosure under a power of sale granted in connection with a hypothecation, a transfer
or allocation in connection with a dissolution of marriage., a transfer pursuant to an
order specifically enforcing an agreement of sale or other transfer entered into or any
actual holder of the subject Shares and, in the case of a entity which is a holder of
Shares, any distribution to shareholders, partners, beneficiaries or other holders
of beneficial interests in such entity and any change in ownership resulting from a merger
or other reorganization of such entity; provided, however, that a transfer of shares to an
affiliate or family member of the transferor who agrees to comply with the provisions of
this Agrement applicable to the transferor shall not be deemed a voluntary transfer.   

  SECTION 2.  CERTAIN RIGHTS OF MR. OGAWA   

2.1
 Right to Require Valuation . If the Company shall not have effected an
initial public offering of its common stock prior to the fifth anniversary of the date of
this Agreement, then at any time thereafter (until the Company effects an initial public
offering). Mr. Ogawa shall have the right (exercisable not more than once in any 12-month
period) to require that a determination be made of the Fair Market Value of the
Company's common equity in accordance with this Section 2.1. Such right shall be
exercised by delivery of a written notice (a "Valuation Notice") to IP and the
Company. The Fair Market Value of the Company shall be such fair market value as is
determined by mutual agreement of Mr. Ogawa and IP or, if Mr. Ogawa and IP do not so agree
within 30 days following delivery of the Valuation Notice, such fair market value as is
determined by a reputable investment banking or appraisal firm with valuation expertise in
the Company's industry selected by mutual agreement of IP and Mr. Ogawa (the
"Appraiser"). The Company shall engage the Appraiser and shall request the
Appraiser to deliver its written report as to the Fair Market Value of the Company's
common equity to the Company, Mr. Ogawa and IP within 60 calendar days from selection of
the Appraiser. The fees and expenses of the Appraiser will be bome by the Company. The
Appraiser's determination of such fair market value shall be final.   

2.2
 Right to Require Initial Public Offering.  Following a determination of Fair Market
Value in accordance with Section 2.1, unless IP shall, within 30 days after determination
of such Fair Market Value, make a written offer to Mr. Ogawa to purchase all (but not less
than all) the Covered Shares owned by Mr. Ogawa at a cash purchase price equal to 50% of
the Fair Market Value of the Company as so determined, Mr. Ogawa shall have the right,
exercisable by written notice to the Company and IP at any time within 90 days following
the end of such 30-day period, to require the Company to take the necessary steps to
register the Covered Shares owned by Mr. Ogawa (or any portion of such Covered Shares
specified by Mr. Ogawa) for sale in a public offering pursuant to the Securities Act. If
Mr. Ogawa exercises such right, the Company shall (i) proceed, as expeditiously as
practicable, to cause a registration statement for such Covered Shares to be prepared,
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and to become effective, and (ii) to
engage a reputable investment banking firm selected by Mr. Ogawa to effect a public
offering of such shares through such distribution method as Mr. Ogawa may reasonably
request, and (iii) take such other actions (including engaging counsel and accountants) as
may be customary in connection with the exercise of registration rights by a principal
shareholder. The Company shall bear all expenses of such registration of Mr. Ogawa's
covered shares (other than underwriting or brokerage commissions with respect to the
shares actually sold).  

2.3
 Cooperation by IP . In the event that Mr. Ogawa at any time desires,
following the fifth anniversary of the date of this Agreement, to sell the Covered Shares
owned by him to a third party, IP shall, if requested by Mr. Ogawa, provide reasonable
assistance to Mr. Ogawa in attempting to identify a third party which might be willing to
purchase such shares in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of this Agreement.   

SECTION 3.  TRANSFER
RESTRICTIONS; PURCHASE OPTIONS .   

3.1  Consent Reouired for
Voluntary Transfer; Transfer to Competitor Prohibited .  

(a) No Voluntary Transfer of any interest in
any Covered Shares shall be made, or be valid for any purpose, for a period of
five (5) years from the date of this Agreement, unless (i) in the case of a
transfer of Covered Shares owned on the date hereof by IP. Mr. Ogawa (or any
permitted transferee of Mr. Ogawa holding a majority of the shares owned by Mr.
Ogawa as of the date hereof) gives his prior written consent thereto or (ii) in
the case of a transfer of Covered Shares owned on the date hereof by Mr. Ogawa,
IP (or any permitted transferee of IP holding a majority of the shares owned by
IP as of the date hereof) gives its prior written consent thereto. In
considering any request for such consent, the parties may give consideration to
any business factors they judge to be relevant, including without limitation
whether the proposed Voluntary Transfer will reduce the incentive of the
transferor to use his or its maximum efforts for the success of the Company.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Covered Shares may be transferred to an affiliate
or immediate family member of the transferor, provided that such affiliate or
immediate family member agrees to be bound by this Agreement to the same extent
as the transferor.   

(b) No Voluntary Transfer to a Competitor of
any interest in any Covered Shares shall be made at any time, or be valid for
any purpose.   

3.2
 Purchase Option Arising From Proposed Transfer . Any Person who desires
to make a Voluntary Transfer of any Covered Shares (a "Transferor") shall give
prompt notice (an "Offer Notice") to the Company and the Optionee Shareholder of
the intent to make such Transfer, which Offer Notice shall include the number of Covered
Shares which are the subject of the proposed Transfer and the terms of such proposed
Transfer, including the amount and type of consideration to be paid for such Covered
Shares. Such Offer Notice shall also identify the parties who may purchase the Covered
Shares from the Transferor. Following the receipt of an Offer Notice, the Company, and
then the Optionee Shareholder, shall have an option to purchase the Covered Shares
identified in such Offer Notice upon the terms set forth in this Section 3. Nothing in
this Section 3.2 shall affect the consent requirement stated in Section 3.1, and the
granting of any consent under Section 3.1 shall not affect the rights arising under this
Section 3.2.   

3.3
 Other Events Triggering Purchase Option . Upon the occurrence of any of the
following events (each a "Triggering Event") with respect to a holder of Covered
Shares (the "Affected Party"), the Company, and then the Optionee Shareholder,
shall have the option to purchase all the Covered Shares beneficially owned by the
Affected Party (or, in the case of clause (a) below, the Covered Shares that were the
subject of the Involuntary Transfer) upon the terms set forth in this Section 3:   

(a) The Involuntary Transfer of Covered
Shares by the Affected Party; 
 
          (b) The death or dissolution of the Affected
Party; 
 
          (c) The appointment of a conservator for the
Affected Party; 
 
          (d) The commencement
of any case, proceeding or other action by or against the Affected Party seeking
to have an order of relief entered to adjudicate the Affected Party a bankrupt
or insolvent, seeking reorganization, adjustment or composition of the party's
debts, or seeking the appointment of a trustee, custodian or other similar
official for the Affected Party or for all or any substantial part of the
Affected Party's property; provided, however, that any such case, proceeding or
other action initiated by a third party against the Affected Party shall not
become a Triggering Event unless such case, proceeding or other action remains
undismissed for 120 days; 
 
          (e) The commission
by the Affected Party of a felony or an act involving fraud or moral turpitude
which relates to the Company, reflects in a materially adverse manner on the
Company or otherwise materially and adversely affects the Company.

An
Affected Party shall give prompt notice (a "Triggering Event Notice") to the
Company and the other parties to this Agreement of the occurrence of any Triggering Event,
and if such Triggering Event Notice is not promptly given, any other party having
knowledge of such Triggering Event may give a Triggering Event Notice. The Triggering
Event Notice shall describe the Triggering Event, the Persons involved, and the nature and
terms of any Transfer in connection with such event.   

            3.4
 Manner of Exercise . Any option granted by this Section 3 shall be exercised
in the following manner.  

(a)  Time for Exercise and Tender of
Purchase Price . If the Company wishes to purchase any Covered Shares
pursuant to an option granted under this Section 3, the Company shall, within 30
days after the date the Offer Notice or the Triggering Event Notice is given to
the Company (the "Company Option Period"), give written notice to the Selling
Shareholder and the Optionee Shareholder specifying the number of Covered Shares
the Company intends to purchase.   

If
the Company does not give written notice to the Selling Shareholder of the intent to
purchase all Covered Shares made available under the option, the Company shall, within
three days after the expiration of the Company Option Period, notify the Optionee
Shareholder of the option to purchase the Covered Shares which are available under the
option and are not proposed to be purchased by the Company. In the event the Optionee
Shareholder wishes to exercise the option, the Optionee Shareholder shall, within 60 days
after the expiration of the Company Option Period (the "Shareholder Option
Period"), give written notice to the Selling Shareholder and the Company specifying
the number of the Covered Shares available under the option the Optionee
Shareholder intends to purchase. If the Optionee Shareholder gives notice pursuant to this
Section 3.4(a), the Optionee Shareholder may not withdraw or amend such notice except as
provided below.   

If
the total number of Covered Shares specified in all wririen notices under this Section
3.4(a) received by the Selling Shareholder before the expiration of the Shareholder Option
Period does not equal or exceed the total number of Covered Shares available under the
option, the Selling Shareholder shall within three days after the expiration of the
Shareholder Option Period give written notice of this fact to all Purchasing Parties. In
such case, any Purchasing Party may within six days after the expiration of the
Shareholder Option Period increase the number of Covered Shares the party intends to
purchase.   

After
the expiration of such additional six-day period for the submission of new notices, the
Selling Shareholder shall give written notice to the Purchasing Parties of the total
number of Covered Shares offered to be purchased in the notices received by the Selling
Shareholder. If such number equals or exceeds the number of Covered Shares available under
the option, such notice by the Selling Shareholder shall create a separate and enforceable
contract between the Selling Shareholder and each Purchasing Party for the sale and
purchase of the number of Covered Shares allocated to such Purchasing Party under Section
3.4(b) below on the terms specified in Section 3.7 below. No sale of shares shall be
required hereunder unless the Purchasing Parties collectively elect to purchase all of the
shares made available under the option.   

(b)  Allocation of Covered Shares . If
the number of Covered Shares offered to be purchased in all notices under
Section 3.4(a) hereof equals the number of Covered Shares available under the
option, each Purchasing Party shall be allocated a number of Covered Shares
equal to the number of Covered Shares specified in such Purchasing Party's
latest notice to the Selling Shareholder.   

If
the number of Covered Shares offered to be purchased under the option exceeds the number of
Covered Shares available under the option, Covered Shares shall be allocated to the
Purchasing Parties as follows:   

(i)
               The Company shall be allocated the number of Covered Shares specified in
               its notice; and    

(ii)
               Any Covered Shares not purchased by the Company shall be allocated to the other
               Purchasing Party.    

(c)  Effect of Failure to Exercise
Option.  In the case of a proposed Voluntary Transfer, if at the end of the
sixth day after the expiration of the Shareholder Option Period, the total
number of Covered Shares specified in all notices received by the Selling
Shareholder is less than the total number of Covered Shares available under the
option, the Selling Shareholder shall have the right to commence discussions
regarding a purchase of the Covered Shares described in the Offer Notice with
any potential purchaser identified in the Offer Notice or any other potential
purchaser named in a subsequent written notice from the Selling Shareholder to
the Company and the other parties to this Agreement (a "Purchaser Identification
Notice"); provided, however, that the Selling Shareholder shall not enter into
such discussions with any potential
purchaser identified in the Offer Notice or a Purchaser Identification Notice if, within
14 days after receipt of the Offer
Notice or the Purchaser Identification Notice, the Company or the Optionee
Shareholder reasonably advises the Selling Shareholder in writing that such potential
purchaser is not acceptable as a purchaser of Covered Shares and states the basis for such
objection. Thereafter, the Selling Shareholder may make a Transfer of all (but not less
than all, except to the extent tag-along rights are exercised pursuant to Section 3.7 of
this Agreement) of such Covered Shares to any purchaser identified in the Offer Notice or
in a Purchaser Identification Notice (excluding any such purchaser as to which objection
is made as described in the proviso to the preceding sentence) upon the terms set forth in
the Offer Notice (or other terms that are in no respect more favorable to such purchaser
than the terms set forth in the Offer Notice), provided that (i) the Selling Shareholder
and such purchaser fully comply with the tag-along provisions of Section 3.7 below, (ii)
such Transfer is consummated within 90 days after the expiration of the Shareholder Option
Period, and (iii) the transferee executes a counterpart of this Agreement. Any Shares thus
transferred shall remain Covered Shares, as set forth in Section 7. If no such Transfer to
that transferee is consummated within such 90 day period, such Covered Shares of the
Selling Shareholder shall remain subject to all restrictions, terms and conditions of this
Agreement.   

In
the case of an Involuntary Transfer, if at the end of the sixth day after the expiration
of the Shareholder Option Period the total number of Covered Shares specified in all
notices received by the Selling Shareholder is less than the total number of Covered
Shares available under the option, then the Selling Shareholder shall not be obligated to
sell the Covered Shares under this Section 3 on account of such Involuntary Transfer, but
this Agreement shall continue to apply to the Covered Shares.   

3.5
 Exercise Price and Terms of Purchase Option . The total purchase price and
other terms to be paid on exercise of an option granted under this section shall be
determined as follows:   

(a) In the case of an option arising from
the giving of any Offer Notice in accordance with Section 3.2, the purchase
price and other terms shall be as set forth in such Offer Notice.   

(b) In the case of an option arising from
the occurrence of a Triggering Event, the purchase price (which shall be payable
in cash) shall be the Fair Market Value of one Share at the time of the
Triggering Event multiplied by the number of shares being purchased. The parties
to the transaction will use their best efforts to agree upon such Ready Fair
Market Value within 10 days after the expiration of the Shareholder Option
Period. If the parties cannot agree on a value within such 10 days, the parties
shall accept the determination of an appraiser appointed by the San
Francisco branch of the American Arbitration Association.   

3.6
 Time and Manner of Payment . Closing of all purchases of Covered Shares under
any option granted under this Section 3 shall occur on the 30th day after the later of (i)
expiration of the Shareholder Option Period, and (ii) the date of any report by an
appraiser appointed pursuant to Section 3.5(b) above. On such date, each Purchasing Party
shall tender the purchase price for all Covered Shares to be purchased by it under the
option, and the Selling Shareholder shall deliver to each Purchasing Party the
certificates representing such Covered Shares along with any signatures, endorsements
and/or documents necessary to transfer good title to such Covered Shares. The failure of
any party to satisfy its obligations under this Section 3.6 as to any particular
transaction shall not affect the enforceability of any other transaction.   

3.7
 Tag-Along Right . In the event that, following compliance with Section 3.4(c), a
Selling Shareholder reaches agreement with a non-affiliate named in the Offer Notice or a
Purchaser Identification Notice (the "Third Party Purchaser") for such Third
Party Purchaser to purchase any Covered Shares, such Selling Shareholder shall deliver a
written notice (a "Tag-Along Invitation Notice") of such agreement to the Company
and the Optionee Shareholder. The Tag-Along Invitation Notice shall specify (A) the name
and address of the Third Party Purchaser, (B) the consideration to be paid for such
Covered Shares and (C) all other material terms and conditions of such agreement. The
Optionec Shareholder may elect to participate in the sale of Covered Shares to the Third
Party Purchaser on the terms and conditions stated in this Section 3.7 by giving a written
notice (the "Tag-Along Acceptance Notice") to the Selling Shareholder within 20
days after receipt of the Tap Along Invitation Notice. In the event that the Optionee
Shareholder gives a Tag-Along Acceptance Notice, the Optionee Shareholder shall have the
right to sell to the Third Party Purchaser, on the terms and conditions stated in the
Tag-Along Invitation Notice, the number of Covered Shares owned by the Optionee
Shareholder specified in the Tag-Along Acceptance Notice, but not more than that portion
of the Covered Shares owned by the Optionee Shareholder which is equal to the product
obtained by multiplying (i) the total number of Covered Shares which the Third Party
Purchaser has agreed to purchase from the Selling Shareholder by (ii) the Optionee
Shareholder's total percentage interest in the issued and outstanding Covered Shares.
Within ten days after its receipt of a Tag Along Acceptance Notice, the Selling
Shareholder shall notify the Optionee Shareholder of the date on which the sale of Covered
Shares to the Third Party Purchaser will be consummated, which shall be no later the later
of (A) 30 days after delivery of the Tag Along Acceptance Notice and (B) the satisfaction
of any governmental approval or filing requirements applicable to the sale. The Optionee
Shareholder electing to participate in the sale: to the Third Party Purchaser in
accordance with this Section may effect its participation by delivery to the Third Party
Purchaser, or to the Selling Shareholder for delivery to the Third Party Purchaser, of
one or more certificates, properly endorsed for transfer or with duly executed stock
powers attached, representing the Covered Shares that the Optionee Shareholder has elected
to sell. At the time of consummation of the sale of Covered Shares to the Third Party
Purchaser, the Third Party Purchaser shall remit directly to the Optionee Shareholder that
portion of the sale proceeds which the Optionee Shareholder is entitled by reason of its
participation therein.   

3.8
 Insurance . In order to facilitate any exercise (in its sole discretion) of an
option granted to the Company under this Section 3 upon any death of Mr. Ogawa, the
Company shall purchase and maintain term life insurance in an amount of at least
$1,000,000 or its equivalent on his life for the purpose of funding the purchase of all or
any portion of Mr. Ogawa's Covered Shares pursuant to an option granted by this
Section 3. The Company shall be the sole owner and named beneficiary of such policy, and
neither Mr. Ogawa nor his successors shall have any right or interest therein.   

3.9
 Termination . The obligations and rights of the parties under this Section 3
shall terminate upon the written agreement of IP, the Company, and all holders of Covered
Shares. The right of any party to purchase any Covered Shares pursuant to the exercise of
the option set forth in Section 3.2 or 3.3 shall terminate upon any material breach of
this Agreement by such party.   

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, nothing herein shall be construed as limiting the rights of any party under
this Agreement arising from the breach of any term hereof. No termination of this Section
3 shall affect any other provision of this Agreement.   

3.10
 Non-Competition Agreement by Mr. Ogawa Upon His Sale of Covered Shares . In
the event that Mr. Ogawa transfers a majority of the Covered Shares owned by him on the
date of this Agreement to a third party in accordance with the provisions of this Section
3, IP (or any permitted transferee of IP) and/or the Company shall have the option.
exerciseable within 30 days of the transfer, to require Mr. Ogawa to enter into a
reasonable non-competition agreement with the Company which provides that, in return for
payments of $250,000 per year for a two-year period, Mr. Ogawa will be prohibited from
becoming, or being in any way associated (as officer, director, partner, shareholder or in
any other capacity) with, a Competitor at any time during such two-year period.   

SECTION 4. 
  ELECTION OF NOMINEES TO THE COMPANY'S BOARD AND APPROVAL REQUIREMENT
FOR CERTAIN ACTIONS . 

4.1  Nomination; Voting .  

(a) Subject to Section 4.1(b), at
any election of the Company's board of directors, whether at a meeting of
shareholders or by written consent of shareholders, each of the Company's
shareholders agrees to vote all shares owned by such shareholder for the
election as directors of an equal number of individuals nominated by IP (or any
permitted transferee of IP under this Agreement) and directors nominated by Mr.
Ogawa (or any permitted transferee of Mr. Ogawa under this Agreement).
Initially, there shall be two directors nominated by IP and two directors
nominated by Mr. Ogawa. Subject to Section 4.1(b), if the board of directors
should at any time not include an equal number of directors nominated by IP (or
such permitted transferee) and directors nominated by Mr. Ogawa (or such
permitted transferee), each of the Company's shareholders agrees to take all
such action as may be necessary (including, but not limited to, the holding of a
shareholders meeting for the purpose of filling any vacancy that may then exist)
in order that the Board of Directors shall include an equal number of directors
nominated by IP (or such permitted transferee) and directors nominated by Mr.
Ogawa (or such permitted transferee).   

(b) If at any time a Specified Event shall
occur at a time when individuals nominated by IP (or any permitted transferee of
IP under this Agreement) do not constitute a majority of the board of directors
of the Company, then the Company's shareholders shall, upon the request of IP
(or such permitted transferee), take all such action as may be necessary
(including, but not limited to, the holding of a shareholders meeting for the
purpose of increasing the number of directors and filling the vacancy thereby
created) in order that the Board of Directors shall, so long as such Specified
Event continues to exist, include a sufficient number of individuals nominated
by IP (or such permitted transferee) such that individuals nominated by IP (or
such permitted transferee) shall constitute a majority of the board of
directors. As used herein, "Specified Event" means (i) the occurrence of an
Event of Default under the Note Purchase Agreement or the related Subordinated
Secured Notes (other than a non-payment Event of Default also constituting an Event
of Default under the Company's bank credit agreement, if the lenders under the
Company's bank credit agreement execute a written waiver of such Event
of Default and the consequences thereof), (ii) the giving of a payment
blockage notice with respect to the Subordinated Secured Notes by the agent
under the Company's bank credit agreement, or (iii) the making of any additional
advance to the Company pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement.   

(c) Without limitation on the other remedies
available for the breach of this Section 4.1 or of the other provisions of this
Agreement, the parties to this Agreement shall be entitled to specific
performance of this Section 4.1 in the event of any actual or threatened breach
of this Section 4.1.   

4.2
 Termination of Duty . The obligations of the shareholders under Section 4.1
shall terminate upon the occurrence of the earliest of the following dates or events:
(i) IP's acquisition of more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of the Company
or (ii) Mr. Ogawa's acquisition of more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of
the Company. No termination of such obligations shall affect any other provision of this
Agreement.   

            4.3
 Approval Requirements for Certain Board Actions .  

(a) No action listed below in this paragraph (a) may
be taken by the Company without the affirmative vote or written consent of all
directors then in office. The actions to which this paragraph (a) applies are the
following:   

(1) any amendment of
the Company's Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws (other than to increase the
authorized number of directors in accordance with Section 4.1); 
 
          (2) the declaration
or payment of any dividend or other distribution in respect of, or the purchase
or redemption of, any shares of the Company's capital stock of any class or any
options, warrants, or conversion or other rights to purchase or otherwise
acquire any such shares or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for
such shares; 
 
          (3) the issuance or
sale of any shares of capital stock of any class or any options, warrants or
conversion or other rights to purchase or otherwise acquire any such shares or
any securities convertible into or exchangeable for such shares; 
 
          (4) the dissolution,
liquidation or reorganization of the Company, or any merger or consolidation of
the Company with another corporation or enterprise; and 
 
          (5) the entering
into of any material contract, arrangement or transaction granting any rights or
licenses under any trademarks, tradenames, patent rights or trade secrets or any
termination, extension or amendment thereto;   

(b) No action listed below in this paragraph
(b) may be taken by the Company without the affirmative vote or written consent
of at least one director then in office who was nominated by IP. The actions to
which this paragraph (b) applies are the following:   

(1) the filing by
the Company of a petition or application to any tribunal for, or the Company's
consenting to, the appointment of, or taking possession by, a trustee, receiver,
custodian, liquidator or similar official, of the Company or any substantial
part of its assets, or the commencement of a voluntary case under the bankruptcy
law of the United States, or any proceeding relating to the Company under the
bankruptcy law of any other jurisdiction; 
 
          (2) the sale (other
than the sale of assets pursuant to purchase options contained in leases of such
assets in the ordinary course of business), lease (other than the lease of
assets in the ordinary course of business), transfer, mortgage, pledge,
encumbrance or other disposition of any portion of the business, assets or
properties of the Company having a book or market value of more than $100,000 or
its equivalent, or the entering into of any agreement, commitment or other
arrangement therefor; 
 
          (3) the acquisition
or lease of any assets or properties having a price or market value of more than
$100,000 or its equivalent, or the entering into of any agreement, commitment or
other arrangement therefor, except for the procurement of containers pursuant to
a Company business plan approved in advance by the Company's board of directors,
with the affirmative vote or consent of at least one director nominated by IP; 
 
          (4) any investment
in any other corporation, partnership, joint venture or other person, or any
loan or other extension of credit (other than by lease as permitted hereby), or
the entering into of any agreement, commitment or other arrangement therefor; 
 
          (5) the incurring or
guarantee of any indebtedness (other than (i) indebtedness incurred under the
Note Purchase: Agreement or the Bank Credit Agreement as in effect on the date
of this Agreement. (ii ) indebtedness relating to capital expenditures
previously approved by the Board of Directors, and (iii) up to $100.000 in
principal amount of other indebtedness incurred during any fiscal year; 
 
          (6) the
forgiveness or cancellation of any debts or claims (other than forgiveness
agreements with lessees affecting less than $100,000 of indebtedness and entered
into in the ordinary course of business); 
 
          (7) the entering
into of any agreement, commitment or other transaction of which performance
will not be completed within one year or which has a contract value exceeding
$100.000 or its equivalent (other than leases of assets in the ordinary course
of business) or any termination, extension or material amendment thereto; 
 
          (8) the entering
into of any employment contract with any officer, director or management
employee or any termination, extension or material amendment thereto; 
 
          (9) determination of
or change in the compensation paid to any officer, director or management
employee (other than increases in compensation for employees whose annual
compensation (after any such increase) is not more than $75,000); 
 
          (10) the adoption or
material amendment of any employment, collective bargaining, bonus,
profit-sharing, compensation, stock option, pension, retirement, deferred
compensation or other plan, agreement, trust, fund or arrangement for the
benefit of employees; 
 
          (11) any change in
the Company's independent auditors or any material change in its accounting
practices, policies or principles; 
 
          (12) the entering
into of any contract, arrangement or transaction (other than this Agreement)
with any shareholder (other than IP) or any termination, extension or amendment
thereto; 
 
          (13) any material
change in the business or business activity engaged in by the Company; 
 
          (14) the adoption of
annual and semi-annual operating and capital budgets and plans; and 
 
          (15) any election or
removal of any officer.   

4.4  Special Approval Requirements for Certain Actions .   

(a) In the event that all directors then in office who were nominated by IP (or
any permitted transferee of IP under this Agreement), whether or not such
directors represent a majority of the Board of Directors at the time in
question, shall determine unanimously by affirmative vote or written consent
that the employment of Mr. Ogawa shall be terminated for cause in accordance
with the terms of his employment agreement, such vote shall be sufficient to
terminate such agreement, without regard to any vote by directors nominated by
Mr. Ogawa.  

(b) In the event that all directors then in office who were nominated by Mr.
Ogawa (or any permitted transferee of Mr. Ogawa under this Agreement), whether
or not such directors represent a majority of the Board of Directors at the time
in question, shall determine unanimously by affirmative vote or written consent
that (i) certain individuals shall be designated as the Company's nominees to
the Board of Managers of lnterpool/CAI LLC or (ii) the Company shall exercise
its right to cause [a termination or dissolution of Interpool/CAI LLC], such
vote shall be sufficient to effect such designation or to exercise such right,
without regard to any vote by directors nominated by IP.  

SECTION 5. 
  TERMINATION OF MARKETING AGREEMENTS UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES . 

5.1
 Right to Terminate Marketing Agreements Under Certain Circumstances .
Pursuant to an Agreement dated April 29, 1998 (the "Overall Agreement") between
CAI and Interpool Limited, a subsidiary of IP, CAI and Interpool Limited have
agreed, among other things, to transfer their respective marketing employees to
a newly formed limited liability company to be wholly owned by Interpool Limited
(the "LLC"), which will act as the exclusive marketing agent for CAI and
Interpool Limited pursuant to separate Marketing Service Agreements to be
entered into by each company with the LLC. The parties agree to utilize their
respective best efforts in good faith to resolve any disputes that may arise in
connection with such agreements. In the event that (1) Mr. Ogawa does not
receive sufficient support from Interpool Limited or its former employees to
effectively manage the marketing activities of the LLC as its CEO, in accordance
with the Overall Agreements, or (2) in the reasonable judgment of the management
of either Interpool or CAI, the marketing or economic performance of the LLC is
unsatisfactory, then upon the written request of either CAI or Interpool
delivered to the other party at any time within the first 12 months following
the transfer of employees to the LLC, Mr. Ogawa and Interpool will cooperate in
causing the mutual termination of the Marketing Service Agreements, whereupon
either party may seek to rehire its former employees; provided, however, that in
any such case (i) so long as Interpool Limited and CAI continue to be parties to
the Operating and Administration Agreement dated the date hereof, all long term
business thereafter written by CAI marketing representatives, subject to a 10%
participation retention by CAI, will either be conducted by CAI, as an agent on
behalf of Interpool, or offered for sale to Interpool on a right of first
refusal basis (with CAI receiving the same remuneration to which it would
otherwise have been entitled under Section 1.8 of the Overall Agreement), such
that Interpool Limited's ability to write long term business will not be
materially impaired by reason of the terminations; (ii) CAI and Interpool shall
use their best efforts (without material incremental expense (excluding any such
expense reimbursed by the other party)) to restructure their marketing and other
integrated activities in a manner which minimizes tax exposures for each company
and complies with governmental regulatory requirements; and (iii) all such new
arrangements are implemented in a manner that, in the reasonable judgment of
Interpool and CAI are the most beneficial for their respective business needs,
without the imposition of material incremental expense of either
party.  

SECTION 6.  REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES .   

6.1
 Shareholders of the Comnanv . The Company and Mr. Ogawa hereby
represent and warrant to IP that immediately prior to the date of this Agreement, the
following Persons were the only Shareholders of the Company, and held the stated number of
Shares and percentage of the Company's issued and outstanding Shares:   

The Company and Mr. Ogawa hereby
represent and warrant that there are no outstanding stock appreciation rights or other
rights to compensation, bonuses or other consideration based on or relating to the value
of any capital stock of the Company, or any commitments for the same, except as disclosed
in Exhibit A to this Agreement.   

6.2
 Encumbrances, Liens, and other Obligations . Mr. Ogawa hereby represents and
warrants that (i) he holds his Shares free and clear of all liens and other encumbrances
other than the pledge of a portion of such Shares to Sumitomo Bank of California
("Sumitomo"), which pledge.shall not be subject to the terms of this Agreement,
provided however, that subject to the rights of Sumitomo under its pledge agreement with
Mr. Ogawa, the shares pledged by Mr. Ogawa shall remain in all respects subject to the
terms of this Agreement, and (ii) his entering into this Agreement will not cause him to
be in breach of any contract or obligation applicable to him or his Shares.   

6.3
 The Company's Bylaws . The Company hereby represents and warrants that its
bylaws are as set forth in Appendix 2 attached hereto.   

  SECTION 7.  TRANSFER; LEGEND .  

7.1
 Noncomplving Transfers Invalid . No Transfer of Covered Shares that does not
comply with the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be effective or valid for any
purpose. The Company shall neither transfer nor reissue any shares in violation of this
Agreement or without proof of compliance with this Agreement.   

7.2
 Transferees Bound . Any and all transferees of Covered Shares, whether or not
made in accordance with this Agreement, shall be bound by all provisions of this Agreement
to the extent such transferee or transferees would be bound had they been an original
party hereto, and the transferred shares shall continue to be Covered Shares.   

7.3
 Legend . The Company shall cause all certificates representing Covered Shares
to be legended as follows:   

The
Shares represented by this certificate are subject to the provisions of a Shareholders
Agreement dated as of April 29, 1998 (as it may be amended from time to time) whereby the
disposition of these Shares is restricted. ANY TRANSFER IN VIOLATION OF THESE RESTRICTIONS
IS VOID. A copy of said Agreement is on file at the registered office of the Company where
it may be inspected.   

SECTION 8.  WAIVER AND RELEASE .   

8.1
 General Intention of the Parties; Rights Under Related Agreements . The
Company and Mr. Ogawa recognize that IP's stock and note investments in the Company
represent a substantial allocation of capital in support of the Company. The Company and
Mr. Ogawa recognize and agree that it is their intent that IP have the full
opportunity to exercise all its rights and powers as shareholder, noteholder, secured
party and as a party to the Related Agreements and the Related Transactions,
including, without limitation the exercise of any influence or control that may result
therefrom, (collectively, the "IP Rights"), and that the opportunity to exercise
the IP Rights is a material element in IP's decision to invest in the Company.   

The
Related Agreements, and applicable law, confer a wide variety of
rights on the parties thereto. It is the full intent of the parties that IP and Mr. Ogawa
will exercise all rights accorded them under the Related Agreements and under applicable
law, and that all such rights be enforceable, fully in accordance with their terms. The
rights and remedies available to IP under the Related Agreements shall in no way be
impaired or limited by the fact that IP is an equity and/or debt holder in the Company
and may acquire or exercise a controlling interest in the Company, or for any other
reason. All such rights and remedies shall be exercisable by IP to the full extent as if
no other relationship existed between IP and the Company.   

Nothing
in this Section 8.1 shall be interpreted as a waiver of, or shall diminish, the fiduciary
duty of all the directors of the Company (including appointees of IP and Mr. Ogawa) to
exercise their judgment for the benefit of the Company and all its shareholders.   

8.2
 Importance of this Section 8 . This Section 8 is a material part of the
Related Transactions, and Mr. Ogawa is entering into this Section 8 in order to induce
IP to consummate the Related Transactions, recognizing that IP would not do so but for the
provisions of this Section 8.   

SECTION 9.  NOTICE .   

All
notices required or permitted to be given or made pursuant to this Agreement shall be
deemed given when delivered in person or by telefacsimile, or, in the case of notice to an
address in the United States, when mailed by express or certified mail, postage
prepaid, to the parties at the addresses set forth below. Each party may specify a
different address by written notice to all other parties.   

SECTION 10.  SPECIFIC ENFORCEMENT .   

Because
of the unique relationship of the parties and the Company and the unique value of their
interests therein, in addition to any other remedies for breach thereof, this Agreement
shall be specifically enforceable. The parties agree that monetary damages would not be
adequate compensation for any loss incurred by reason of a breach of the provisions of
this Agreement and hereby agree to waive the defense in any action for specific
performance that a remedy at law would be adequate.   

SECTION 11.  ARBITRATION .   

11.1
 Arbitration Generally . Any actions, controversies, claims, disputes and
other factual or legal matters in question arising out of or relating to this Agreement,
or the alleged breach thereof, or arising out of any claim against IP on account of any
exercise of any IP Right, including without limitation any dispute regarding the validity
or scope of this arbitration provision, shall be settled by arbitration conducted in
accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration
Association, as then in effect, except as provided herein.   

11.2  Selection of Arbitrators.  Unless the parties agree otherwise, any such
arbitration shall be held in San Francisco, California, before one arbitrator who shall be
selected by mutual agreement of the parties; if agreement is not reached on the selection
of an arbitrator within 30 days after receipt of a demand for arbitration by the other
party (the "Initial Selection Period"), then Mr. Ogawa on the one hand and IP on
the other hand shall each have 30 days from the expiration of the Initial Selection Period
to select an arbitrator. The two arbitrators shall select a third arbitrator who shall
arbitrate the dispute. If either party does not timely select an arbitrator, the
arbitrator selected by the other party shall arbitrate the dispute.   

11.3
 Scope of Arbitration . Costs and fees of the arbitrator shall be borne by the
non-prevailing party, unless the arbitrator determines otherwise. The award of the
arbitrator, which may include specific performance or other equitable relief, shall be
final and judgment may be entered upon it in accordance with applicable law in any court
having jurisdiction thereof. Any demand for arbitration shall be in writing and must be
made within a reasonable time after the claim, dispute or other matter in question has
arisen. In no event shall the demand for arbitration be made after the date that
institution of legal or equitable proceedings based upon such claim, dispute or other
matter would be barred by the applicable statute of limitations. Nothing in this Section
11 shall prevent a party to this Agreement from seeking preliminary injunctive
or other equitable relief, pending arbitration, from a court of competent jurisdiction
when the party deems such relief necessary to the interim protection of its rights under
this Agreement pending arbitration and arbitration proceedings could not be completed
within the time necessary for such protection.   

SECTION 12.  MISCELLANEOUS .   

12.1
 Integration . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties
with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior negotiations or
agreements, whether written or oral.   

            12.2
 Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance
with the laws of the State of California.  

            12.3
 Amendment . This Agreement may be amended only by a writing signed by the IP, the
Company, and all holders of Covered Shares.  

12.4
 Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in identical counterparts, which
counterparts collectively shall constitute one and the same Agreement.   

12.5
 Severability . The provisions of this Agreement are intended to be severable
and enforced to the maximum extent permitted by law. If for any reason any provision of
this Agreement shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in whole or in part in any
jurisdiction, then that provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of the
invalidity, illegality or unenforceability and in that jurisdiction only, without in any
manner affecting the validity, legality or enforceability of the unaffected portion and
the remaining provisions in that jurisdiction or any provision of the Agreement in any
other jurisdiction. The unaffected portion and provisions of the Agreement will be
enforced to the maximum extent permitted by law.   

12.6
 Successors and Assigns.  The obligations of the parties hereto shall be
binding upon any successor or assign to such party. The rights of IP under this Agreement
shall be assignable in whole or in part, to the extent permitted by Section 3, to any
direct or remote transferee, successor or assign of IP. The rights of Mr. Ogawa under this
Agreement shall be assignable in whole or in part, to the extent permitted by Section 3,
to any direct or remote transferee, successor or assign of Mr. Ogawa. The rights of the
Company under this Agreement are not assignable.   

12.7
 Conflicts of Interest . If at any time IP, on the one hand, or Mr. Ogawa, on
the other hand, proposes to enter into any transaction or relationship which involves or
could involve an actual or potential conflict of interest with the Company, IP or Mr.
Ogawa, as the case may be, shall discuss with the other the proposed transaction or
relationship and the pertinent terms thereof prior to entering into such transaction or
relationship.   

12.8
 Amendment Upon Initial Public Offering . In the event that at any time
(whether pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 or otherwise) the Company effects an
initial public offering of its common stock under the Securities Act, the parties shall
engage in good faith discussions regarding the amendments to this Agreement which are
appropriate in connection therewith.   

12.9
 Approval . The obligations of CAI hereunder are subject to the approval of
this Agreement by the Mitsui nominees on the board of directors of CAI, pursuant to a
unanimous written consent which will be circulated by CAI among its directors promptly
upon execution of this Agreement.   

  [SIGNATURE PAGE TO SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT]  

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement.   

CONTAINER APPLICATIONS 
  INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

INTERPOOL, INC. 

By:            

Name: 
       Title: 

Mr. Hiromitsu Ogawa 

1.    
The CAI Board of Directors is to be increased by one director, who would be
designated by Interpool. We currently intend that Richard Gross would be
designated to fill this additional seat. This would mean that three of the five
directors of CAI (Martin Tuchman, Raoul Witteveen and Richard Gross) would be
persons designated by Interpool. Interpool's right to designate a majority of
the Board would continue until the Subordinated Note is paid in full, at which
time Mr. Ogawa would be entitled to appoint an additional director so that each
of Interpool and Mr. Ogawa would then have equal Board representation. (It
should be noted that Fleet's consent to this change in the Board will be
required.)   

  2.    
The Marketing Agreement between CAI and Interpool is to be revised (i) to
eliminate any obligation on Interpool's part to compensate CAI for any long-term
leasing business generated by CAI; (ii) to eliminate Mr. Ogawa's special powers
on the marketing committee; (iii) to require that all new lease prospects be
submitted to the marketing committee in writing; (iv) to eliminate any
requirement that Interpool build containers in CAI's color; (v) to clarify that
Interpool's sales personnel report only to the marketing committee, not to
the President of CAI; and (vi) to require CAI to report its net earnings to
Interpool within 30 days (rather than 60 days) after each month end.   

  3.    
The age-parity provisions of the Management Agreement between Interpool and CAI
are to be clarified to better reflect the mutual understanding of the parties.

4.    
The Management Agreement is also to be revised to clarify that, without
Interpool's consent, CAI may not close depots and thereby interfere with
Interpool's ability to tender equipment under the Management Agreement.
In this connection, the last two sentences of Section 2.02 of the
management Agreement, which require the parties to meet periodically to agree
on optimum tender locations and require Interpool to attempt to encourage
its customers to redeliver in optimum locations, are to be deleted.   

  5.    
The financial terms of the Subordinated Note and other agreements
between CAI and Interpool are to be modified to compensate Interpool for
voluntarily restructuring the payment schedule of the Note. In addition, the
financial and other covenants in the Note Purchase Agreement are to be revised
and expanded so as to be comparable to those that will be contained in the New
Loan Documents.   

  6.    
Provisions are to be added to the Note Purchase Agreement and the Management
Agreement cross-defaulting these two agreements. In addition, as additional
security for the Subordinated Note (i.e., in addition to the second lien
Interpool now has on CAI's owned containers and container leases), CAI is to
provide Interpool with a collateral assignment of CAI's rights under CAI's
management agreements, an assignment of all of CAI's intellectual property and
other intangible assets and a security interest in CAI tangible assets (such as
computer hardware and office furniture). Such security interests would be second
to the lien given to Fleet National Bank but no other liens would be permitted.

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 23
 interpool-ex1062_030906.htm
 EX-10.62

Ex-10.62 

EXHIBIT
10.62  

SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE TO 
INDENTURE DATED AS OF SEPTEMBER 14, 2004 
BETWEEN  
INTERPOOL, INC.  
AND 
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION   

SUPPLEMENTAL
INDENTURE dated as of December 16, 2005 (this  Supplemental Indenture ), by and
between INTERPOOL, INC., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and U.S. BANK
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a nationally chartered banking association, in its capacity as
Trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the  Trustee ).   

WITNESSETH :   

WHEREAS,
the Company and the Trustee are parties to an Indenture dated as of September 14, 2004
(the  Indenture ) under which the Company s 6.00% Senior Notes Due 2014
(collectively, the  Notes  are issued and outstanding;   

WHEREAS,
pursuant to Section 10.2 of the Indenture, the Company has received the written consent of
holders of Notes representing a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding
Notes to make certain amendments to the Indenture, and in accordance therewith, the
parties desire to amend the Indenture as herein provided; and   

WHEREAS,
all conditions precedent and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a
valid and legally binding instrument in accordance with its terms have been complied with,
performed and fulfilled and the execution and delivery hereof have been in all respects
duly authorized.   

NOW
THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and intending to be legally bound hereby, it
is agreed, for the benefit of all holders of the Notes, as follows:   

 SECTION 1.  AMENDMENT TO INDENTURE  

(a)
       
Section 1.1 of the Indenture is hereby amended, effective as of the
Effective Date (as defined below), by inserting the following new definition in
proper alphabetical order:   

December 2005
Fortis/DVB Credit Agretments  means, collectively, (i) the Credit Agreement
being entered into during  December 2005 among Interpool  Container  Funding II,
SRL, the Company,  certain lenders named therein and Fortis Bank  (Nederland) N.
V., as  administrative  agent for such  lenders,  and {ii) the Credit  Agreement
being entered into during  December  2005 among  Interpool  Containers  Limited,
Interpool Limited, the Company, certain lenders named therein and DVB Bank N.V.,
as  administrative  agent for such lenders,  and (iii) any other agreements with
FortisBank  (Nederland) N.V. and/or DVB Bank executed  concurrently with, and in
connection with,  either of the Credit  Agreements  referred to in the preceding
clauses (i) and (ii).  

(b)
         Section 4.8(b) of the Indenture
is hereby  amended by deleting  clause (15) of such  Section and  inserting  the
following in lieu thereof   

(16)         any
agreement, amendment, modification, restatement, renewal, supplement, refunding,
replacement  or  refinancing  that extends,  renews,  refinances or replaces the
agreements  containing the encumbrances or restrictions in the foregoing clauses
(1) through (14) or in this clause (16),  provided that the terms and conditions
of any such  encumbrances  or restrictions  are not materially more  restrictive
taken as a whole than  those  under or  pursuant  to the  agreement,  amendment,
modification,   restatement,  renewal,  supplement,  refunding,  replacement  or
refinancing  evidencing  the Funded Debt so  extended,  renewed,  refinanced  or
replaced.  

SECTION 2.  EFFECT ON INDENTURE  

(a)
       
The Amendments set forth in Section 1 above shall take effect concurrently
with the execution, delivery and effectiveness of the December 2005 Fortis/DVB
Credit Agreements (as defined above). If the December 2005 FortisJDVB Credit
Agreements do not become effective on or before December 31, 2005, this
Supplemental Indenture shall have no further effect.   

(b)
       
From and after the Effective Date, each reference in the Indenture to  this
Indenture ,  herein ,  hereof ,  hereunder 
or words of similar import, shall mean and be a reference to the Indenture as
amended hereby.   

(c)
       
Except as specifically amended above in connection herewith, the Indenture shall
remain in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed.   

(d)
       
The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Supplemental Indenture shall
not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of any right,
power or remedy of the holders of the Notes or the Trustee under the Indenture
or any document executed in connection therewith.   

 SECTION 3.  GOVERNING LAW  

THIS
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE OBLIGATIONS ARISING HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND
CONSTRUED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT
REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.    

SECTION 4.  COUNTERPARTS 

This
Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of separate counterparts, each of
which shall collectively and separately constitute one agreement.   

IN
WTTNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly
executed as of the day and year first above writteat.   

INTERPOOL, INC. 

By________________________________ 
Title_______________________________ 

[Seal] 

Attest:__________________________________ 
             
        Secretary

U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION 

By________________________________ 
Title_______________________________  

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 24
 interpool-ex1063_030906.htm
 EX-10.63

Ex-10.63 

EXHIBIT
10.63  

SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
TO  
INDENTURE DATED AS OF SEPTEMBER 14, 2004  
BETWEEN INTERPOOL, INC.  
AND U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION    

SUPPLEMENTAL
INDENTURE dated as of December ___, 2005 (this  Supplemental Indenture ), by and
between INTERPOOL, INC., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and U.S. BANK
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a nationally chartered banking association, in its capacity as
Trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the  Trustee ).   

WITNESSETH:    

WHEREAS,
the Company and the Trustee are parties to an Indenture dated as of September 14, 2004
(the  Indenture ) under which the Company s 6.00% Senior Notes Due 2014
(collectively, the  Notes ) are issued and outstanding;   

WHEREAS,
pursuant to Section 10.2 of the Indenture, the Company has received the written consent of
holders of Notes representing a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding
Notes to make certain amendments to the Indenture, and in accordance therewith, the
parties desire to amend the Indenture as herein provided; and   

WHEREAS,
all conditions precedent and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a
valid and legally binding instrument in accordance with its terms have been complied with,
performed and fulfilled and the execution and delivery hereof have been in all respects
duly authorized.   

NOW
THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and intending to be legally bound hereby, it
is agreed, for the benefit of all holders of the Notes, as follows:   

SECTION 1.  AMENDMENT TO
INDENTURE    

Section
4.7(b) of the Indenture is hereby amended by deleting the reference to  $7.0
million  in clause (9) of such section and substituting  $13.0 million  in
lieu thereof.   

SECTION 2.  EFFECT ON
INDENTURE    

(a)
       
From and after the date hereof, each reference in the Indenture to  this
Indenture ,  herein ,  hereof ,  hereunder 
or words of similar import, shall mean and be a reference to the Indenture as
amended hereby.   

(b)
              Except as specifically  amended
above in  connection  herewith,  the  Indenture  shall  remain in full force and
effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed.   

(c)
               The  execution,  delivery  and
effectiveness  of this  Supplemental  Indenture  shall not,  except as expressly
provided  herein,  operate  as a waiver  of any  right,  power or  remedy of the
holders of the Notes or the Trustee under the Indenture or any document executed
in connection therewith.   

SECTION 3.
 GOVERNING LAW    

THIS  SUPPLEMENTAL  INDENTURE  AND THE  OBLIGATIONS
ARISING HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH,  THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT  REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS
PRINCIPLES THEREOF.   

SECTION 4.  COUNTERPARTS    

This
Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of separate counterparts, each of
which shall collectively and separately constitute one agreement.   

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly
executed as of the day and year first above written.   

INTERPOOL, INC. 

By________________________________ 
Title_______________________________ 

[Seal] 

Attest:__________________________________ 
             
        Secretary

U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION 

By________________________________ 
Title_______________________________  

</EX-10>

<EX-12>
 25
 interpool-ex121_030906.htm
 EX-12.1

Exhibit 12.1 

Exhibit 12.1   

Calculation of Ratio
of Earnings to Fixed Charges    

(dollars
in thousands)   

Years ended December 31,
                                               2001        2002        2003        2004        2005

Income before provision / benefit for       $33,504      $2,996     $38,299     $22,231     $91,306
Income Taxes

Fixed Charges                               107,071     117,013     117,235     122,325     129,056
Earnings for Fixed Charges                  140,575     120,009     155,534     143,556     220,362
Interest Expense                             98,270     108,344     106,688     112,013     121,098
Interest Portion of Rental Charges            8,801       8,669      10,547      10,312       7,958
Total                                      $107,071    $117,013    $117,235    $122,325    $129,056

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges              1.3         1.0         1.3         1.2         1.7

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 26
 interpool-ex211_030906.htm
 EX-21.1

Exhibit 21.1 

Exhibit 21.1   

INTERPOOL, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES    

Entity   
 
INTERPOOL SERVICES, INC. 
MILITARY TRANSPORT, INC. 
RAILPOOL, INC. 
INTERPOOL CHASSIS FUNDING, L.L.C. 
INTERPOOL CHASSIS ISSUANCE, LLC  
MICROTECH HOLDING CORP.  
INTERPOOL FINANCE, INC.  
GLOBAL CHASSIS LLC  
TRAC LEASE, INC. 
WMII CORP.  
TRANSACT CORPORATION 
DATATRAC SERVICES, INC. 
CHASSIS HOLDINGS I LLC 
INTERPOOL LOGISTICS L.L.C.  
MICROTECH LEASING CORPORATION 
CONTAINER APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
INTERPOOL LIMITED 
INTERPOOL CONTAINERS LIMITED  
IPL, LLC  
INTERPOOL CONTAINER FUNDING II, SRL 
INTERPOOL FINANCE CORP.  
INTERPOOL FUNDING CORP. II  
INTERPOOL FUNDING CORP. I SRL 
INTERPOOL CONTAINER FUNDING, SRL 
INTERPOOL (HONG KONG) LTD.  
CAI-INTERPOOL, LLC  
INTERPOOL N.V. 
INTERPOOL B.V. 
INTERPOOL BENELUX B.V. 
INTERPOOL (S) PTE LTD 
CTC EQUIPMENT AG 
INTERPOOL CONTAINERS N.V. 
INTERPOOL CONTAINERS, INC.  
INTERPOOL (UK) LIMITED 
CTC CONTAINER TRADING (UK) LIMITED 
   Jurisdiction   
 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
Delaware 
New Jersey 
Nevada 
Barbados 
Barbados 
Delaware 
Barbados 
Cayman Islands 
Cayman Islands 
Barbados 
Barbados 
Hong Kong 
Delaware 
Curacao, Netherlands Antilles 
Netherlands 
Netherlands 
Republic of Singapore 
Switzerland 
Curacao, Netherlands Antilles 
Delaware 
United Kingdom 
United Kingdom 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 27
 interpool-ex231_030906.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

Exhibit 23.1 

EXHIBIT 23.1   

   Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

  The Board of Directors 
Interpool, Inc.  

We consent to incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements No. 333-127087 on Form S-4 and No. 333-127088 on
Form S-3 of Interpool, Inc. and subsidiaries of our reports dated March 31,
2006, relating to the consolidated balance sheets of Interpool, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated
statements of income, changes in stockholders  equity and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005 and
related consolidated financial statement schedule, management s assessment
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2005, which reports appear in the Annual Report on
Form 10-K of Interpool, Inc. and subsidiaries for the year ended December 31,
2005.   

Our report dated March 31, 2006, on management s assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, expresses
our opinion that Interpool, Inc. and subsidiaries did not maintain effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 because of the
effect of the material weaknesses on the achievement of the objectives of the
control criteria and contains an explanatory paragraph that states:   

Technical accounting expertise.     The Company
and its 50%-owned consolidated subsidiary were not adequately staffed with
accounting personnel possessing an appropriate level of technical expertise in
U.S generally accepted accounting principles, as further described below:

Interest rate swap transactions.  The Company did not have personnel possessing
sufficient technical expertise related to accounting for derivative instruments and
hedging activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 

Accounting for debt modification.  The Company did not have personnel possessing
sufficient technical expertise related to the accounting for the modification of revolving
debt facilities. 

Accounting for stock compensation.  The Company s 50%-owned
consolidated subsidiary, Container Applications International, Inc.
( CAI ), did not have personnel possessing sufficient technical
expertise related to the accounting for redeemable convertible preferred stock
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 

Review of subsidiary financial statements.  
The Company did not have adequate policies and procedures in place to
provide for the review of the financial statements of its 50%-owned consolidated
subsidiary, CAI, at a sufficient level of detail.   

Security of information technology.   The
Company s information systems lacked security policies and procedures,
including appropriate encryption and standard security settings. Additionally,
the Company did not have system access controls over access to its equipment
leasing system and certain spreadsheets supporting financial information.

Monitoring of internal control over financial
reporting  .   The Company lacked adequate procedures related to
the monitoring of its internal control over financial reporting, including
procedures related to the timely evaluation of internal controls to ensure that
appropriate personnel regularly obtain evidence that controls are functioning
effectively.   

/s/ KPMG LLP   

Short Hills, New Jersey 
March 31, 2006  

</EX-23>

<EX-31>
 28
 interpool-ex311_030906.htm
 EX-31.1

Ex-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1   

CERTIFICATIONS    

I, Martin Tuchman, certify that:   

1.     
          I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Interpool, Inc.;  

2.     
          Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
          material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
          made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
          misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.     
          Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
          included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
          condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
          for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.     
          The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
          establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
          Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
          reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
          registrant and have:  

(a)     
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared;   

(b)     
Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles;   

(c)     
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

(d)     
Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.      The registrant s other certifying officer
and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control
over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions):  

(a)     
All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and   

(b)      Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.   

Date: March 31, 2006  

/s/ Martin Tuchman         

Martin Tuchman 
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive 
Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer 
and Director (Principal Executive Officer)

</EX-31>

<EX-31>
 29
 interpool-ex312_030906.htm
 EX-31.2

Ex-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2    

CERTIFICATIONS    

I, James F. Walsh, certify that:   

1.     
          I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Interpool, Inc.;  

2.     
          Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
          material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
          made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
          misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.     
          Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
          included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
          condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
          for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.     
          The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
          establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
          Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
          reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
          registrant and have:  

(a)     
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared;   

(b)     Designed such
internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;   

(c)     
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

(d)     
Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.     
          The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
          our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
          registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
          board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)     
All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and   

(b)     
Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.   

Date: March 31, 2006  

/s/ James F. Walsh         
             
James F. Walsh 
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 30
 interpool-ex321_032405.htm
 EX-32.1

Ex-32.1 

Exhibit 32.1   

   CERTIFICATIONS   

I, Martin Tuchman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Interpool, Inc. (the
"Company"), pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, do hereby
certify as follows:  

(2) 
 
The information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have executed this Certification
this 31st day of March, 2005.  

/s/ Martin Tuchman          

Martin Tuchman
Chairman of the Board, Chief 
Executive Officer, President, 
Chief Operating Officer and Director 
OPrincipal Executive Officer) 

A signed
original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears
in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required
by Section 906, has been provided to Interpool, Inc. and will be retained by
Interpool, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request.   

</EX-32>

<EX-32>
 31
 interpool-ex322_030906.htm
 EX-32.2

Ex-32.2 

Exhibit 32.2    

CERTIFICATIONS    

             I,
James F. Walsh, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Interpool, Inc. (the "Company"), pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, do hereby certify as follows:  

(2) 
 
The information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have executed this Certification this 31st day of
March, 2006.   

/s/ James F. Walsh          
             
James F. Walsh 
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other
document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears
in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section
906, has been provided to Interpool, Inc. and will be retained by Interpool, Inc. and
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32>

