<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_949961_0001193125-06-070585_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>966621</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>190811</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>65157</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>577339</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>47</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>3</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-06-070585.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331154423
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-06-070585
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS INC /TX/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000949961
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				752615944
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NV
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14784
		FILM NUMBER:		06728720

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1800 VALLEY VIEW LANE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 300
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75234
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4685224200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1800 VALLEY VIEW LANE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 300
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75234

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GbDTzStTisPDpqORJ7RGQohfbMlOKxRez+QJd/NCJNgeathNcehPKHT8PeV/xnR2
 HOQ9mDarM+BvO2IoYO9n9g==

 0001193125-06-070585.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

     UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549             FORM 10-K        (Mark One)        
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005        OR        
     Commission File Number 001-14784             INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)        
     (469) 522-4200        Registrant s Telephone Number, including area code        Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of Each Class   
     
   Name of each exchange on which registered    
 
  Common Stock, $0.01 par value  
     
  American Stock Exchange   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:       None      Indicate by check mark if the registrant
is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     Yes                 No              Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.     Yes                 No              Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.     Yes           No                    Indicate by check mark
if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definitions of
 accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 126-2 of the Exchange Act (check one).       Large accelerated
filer                 Accelerated filer                 Non-accelerated filer              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.     Yes                 No              The aggregate market value of the shares of voting and non-voting common equity held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant, computed by reference to the closing sales price of the Common Stock on the American Stock Exchange as of June 30, 2005 (the last business day of the Registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter)
was $7,481,820 based upon a total of 748,182 shares held as of March 15, 2006 by persons believed to be non-affiliates of the Registrant. The basis of the calculation does not constitute a determination by the Registrant as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, such calculation, if made as of a date within sixty days of this filing, would yield a different value.      As of March 15, 2006, there were 4,168,035 shares of common stock outstanding.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
      None.        

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INDEX TO        ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K        

Page    

PART I    

Item 1.  

Business   
      
  3   

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors   
      
  6   

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  9   

Item 2.  

Properties   
      
  9   

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings   
      
  12   

Item 4.  

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  13   

PART II    

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  14   

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data   
      
  15   

Item 7.  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  16   

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  24   

Item 8.  

Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  25   

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  49   

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures   
      
  49   

Item 9B.  

Other Information   
      
  49   

PART III    

Item 10.  

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   
      
  50   

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation   
      
  58   

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management   
      
  60   

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   
      
  61   

Item 14.  

Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
      
  63   

PART IV    

Item 15.  

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   
      
  65   

Signature Page    
      
  67   
       
   2   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS        Certain Statements in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words  estimate,   plan,   intend,   expect,   anticipate,   believe  and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. The forward-looking statements are found at various places throughout this Report and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. The Company disclaims any intention or obligations to update or revise any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Although we believe that our expectations are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our goals will be achieved. Important factors that could
cause our actual results to differ from estimates or projections contained in any forward-looking statements are described under Item 1A. Risk Factors beginning on page 7.        
  PART I        

ITEM 1.   
      BUSINESS          Income Opportunity Realty
Investors, Inc. ( IORI  or the  Company  or  we  or  us ), a Nevada corporation, is the successor to a California business trust organized on December 14, 1984, which commenced operations on
April 15, 1985. Prior to January 1, 2003, IORI elected to be treated as a Real Estate Investment Trust ( REIT ) under Sections 856 through 859 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). Due to the
completion of a tender offer by American Realty Investors, Inc. ( ARI ), an affiliate, on March 19, 2003, and the resulting concentration of ownership, IORI no longer met the requirement, as of January 1, 2003, for tax treatment
as a REIT. Currently, Transcontinental Realty Investors, Inc. ( TCI ), a Nevada corporation which has its common stock listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the  NYSE ), owns approximately 24.9% of IORI s
outstanding shares of Common Stock. IORI cannot re-qualify to elect REIT tax status for at least five years after January 1, 2003.      At
December 31, 2005, IORI s real estate consisted of 11 properties held for investment. In addition, IORI owns an interest in one partnership which owns real property and a second partnership which holds a wraparound mortgage note
receivable. IORI also owns equity interests in entities that are partners in, or otherwise own real estate interests. IORI s real estate portfolio is more fully discussed in ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.       Acquisition by Syntek West Inc. Change of Control       On June 2, 2003, Syntek West, Inc. ( SWI ) purchased 106,802 shares and 674,971 shares of IORI Common Stock (a total of 781,773 shares, or approximately 54.3% of the outstanding shares) as a  block  from Basic
Capital Management, Inc. ( BCM ) at a price of $18.45 per share for a total price of $14,423,711. SWI is also the contractual advisor to IORI.       Business Plan       IORI s business is investing in equity interests in real estate through direct equity investments and
partnerships, and financing real estate and real estate related activities through investments in mortgage loans. IORI s real estate is located in the Southwest region of the continental United States. Information regarding IORI s real
estate portfolio is set forth in ITEM 2. PROPERTIES, and in Schedule III to the Consolidated Financial Statements included at ITEM 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA. IORI has three operating segments: Apartments,
Commercial Properties and land ownership. (See NOTE 14. OPERATING SEGMENTS).      IORI s business is not seasonal. Management has
determined to pursue a balanced investment strategy, seeking both current income and capital appreciation. With respect to new investments, management s plan of  
       
   3   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

operation is to acquire higher class apartment and commercial properties, in keeping with the current class of properties in IORI s real estate
portfolio. In 2006, management intends to focus on income producing property acquisitions to maintain a balance between income-producing and non-income producing properties. Management does not expect that IORI will seek to fund or acquire
additional mortgage loans. IORI may, however, originate mortgage loans in conjunction with providing purchase money financing of a property sale. Management also intends to continue its strategy of maximizing each property s operating income by
aggressive property management through closely monitoring expenses while at the same time making property renovations and/or improvements where appropriate. While renovation and/or improvement expenditures increase the amount of revenue required to
cover operating expenses, management believes that such expenditures are necessary to maintain or enhance the value of IORI s properties.      The Board of Directors currently intends to continue its policy of prohibiting IORI from incurring aggregate secured and unsecured indebtedness in excess of 300% of IORI s net asset value (defined as the book value of all assets of
IORI minus all of its liabilities); however, the Board may alter such policy at any time.       Management of the Company       Although the Board of Directors is directly responsible for managing the affairs of IORI and for setting the policies which guide it, the day-to-day
operations of IORI are performed by SWI, the contractual advisor under the supervision of the Board. SWI s duties include, among other things, locating, investigating, evaluating and recommending real estate and mortgage note investments,
acquisitions and sales opportunities, as well as financing and refinancing sources. SWI also serves as a consultant in connection with IORI s business plan and investment decisions made by the Board.      All of the issued and outstanding common stock of SWI is owned by Gene E. Phillips. Mr. Phillips is Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and
a Director of SWI, and he is involved in daily consultation with the officers of SWI and has significant influence over the conduct of SWI s business, including the rendering of advisory services and the making of investment decisions for
itself and for IORI. See ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The Advisor.      Effective June 30, 2003
IORI terminated its Advisory Agreement with BCM. BCM had served as IORI s advisor from 1989 to June 30, 2003. On July 1, 2003, IORI entered into an Advisory Agreement with SWI, the beneficial owner and holder of approximately 54.3% of
IORI s common stock at the time. The new advisory agreement with SWI contains the same terms as the previous advisory agreement with BCM.      Since February 1, 1990, affiliates of BCM have provided property management services to IORI. Currently, Triad Realty Services, Ltd. ( Triad ) provides such property management services. Triad subcontracts with other entities
for the provision of property-level management services to IORI. The general partner of Triad is PIAMI. The limited partner of Triad is Highland Realty Services, Inc. ( Highland ). Triad subcontracted the property-level management and
leasing of IORI s five office buildings and the commercial property owned by a real estate partnership, in which IORI and TCI are partners, to Regis Realty, Inc. ( Regis ), which was owned by Highland, until December 2002. Regis was
entitled to receive property and construction management fees and leasing commissions in accordance with the terms of its property-level management agreement with Triad until December 2002. Regis also was entitled to receive real estate brokerage
commissions in accordance with the terms of a non-exclusive brokerage agreement. Since January 1, 2003, Regis Realty I, LLC ( Regis I ) has provided these services. Regis I is also owned by Highland. See ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The Advisor.      IORI has no employees. Employees of SWI render services to IORI.       Competition       The real estate business is highly
competitive and IORI competes with numerous entities engaged in real estate activities (including certain entities described in ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND  
       
   4   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

RELATED TRANSACTIONS Related Party Transactions), some of which have greater financial resources than those of IORI. Management believes that success
against such competition is dependent upon the geographic location of the property, the performance of the property-level managers in areas such as marketing, collection and control of operating expenses, the amount of new construction in the area
and the maintenance and appearance of the property. Additional competitive factors with respect to commercial properties are the ease of access to the property, the adequacy of related facilities, such as parking, and sensitivity to market
conditions in setting rent levels. With respect to apartments, competition is also based upon the design and mix of units and IORI s ability to provide a community atmosphere for the tenants. Management believes that beyond general economic
circumstances and trends, the rate at which properties are renovated or the rate new properties are developed in the vicinity of each of IORI s properties also are competitive factors.      To the extent that IORI seeks to sell any of its properties, the sales prices for such properties may be affected by competition from other real estate
entities and financial institutions also attempting to sell their properties located in the same areas as well as aggressive buyers attempting to penetrate or dominate a particular market.      As described above (and in ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Related Party Transactions) some of the officers and
directors of IORI also serve as officers or directors of certain other entities, such as BCM, Prime Income Asset Management, Inc. ( PIAMI ), ARI and TCI, some of which have business objectives similar to those of IORI. One Director of IORI
also serves as an officer and director of SWI. Two of IORI s directors also serve as directors of both ARI and TCI. IORI s directors, officers and advisor owe fiduciary duties to such other entities as well as to IORI under applicable law.
In determining to which entity a particular investment opportunity will be allocated, the officers, directors and contractual advisors consider the respective investment objectives of each entity and the appropriateness of a particular investment in
light of each entity s existing real estate and mortgage notes receivable portfolios. To the extent that any particular investment opportunity is appropriate to more than one of the entities, the investment opportunity will be allocated to the
entity which has these funds available for investment for the longest period of time, or, if appropriate, the investment may be shared among all or some of such entities.      In addition, as described in ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Certain Business Relationships, IORI also competes with other entities which are affiliates of SWI, which may have
investment objectives similar to IORI s and may compete with it in the acquisition, sale, leasing and financing of real estate. In resolving any potential conflicts of interest which may arise, SWI has informed management that it intends to
continue to exercise its best judgment as to what is fair and reasonable under the circumstances in accordance with applicable law.       Certain Factors
Associated with Real Estate and Related Investments       IORI is subject to all risks incident to ownership and financing of real estate and
interests therein, many of which relate to the general illiquidity of real estate investments. These risks include, but are not limited to, changes in general or local economic conditions, changes in interest rates and the availability of permanent
mortgage financing which may render the acquisition, sale or refinancing of a property difficult or unattractive and which may make debt service burdensome, changes in real estate and zoning laws, increases in real estate taxes, federal or local
economic or rent controls, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes and other acts of God and other factors beyond the control of management or SWI. The illiquidity of real estate investments also may impair the ability of management to respond promptly to
changing circumstances. Management believes that such risks can be partially mitigated by diversification by geographic region and property type of IORI s real estate portfolio. However, to the extent property, acquisitions are concentrated in
any particular geographic region or property type, the advantages of diversification may be limited. See ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS  for further information regarding risk.         
   5   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Available Information       IORI s Common Stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange, Inc. ( AMEX ) under the symbol  IOT.  Our principal executive office is located at 1755 Wittington Place, Suite 340, Dallas, Texas
75234, and our telephone number is 469-522-4200.      We maintain an internet website at  http://www.incomeopp-realty.com . We make
available through our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, reports filed pursuant to Section 16 and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, we have posted the Charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and our Governance and Nominating Committee, as well as our
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines on Director Independence, and other information on our website. These charters and principles are not incorporated in this Report by reference. We will also provide a copy of these
documents free of charge to stockholders upon written request. The Company issues Annual Reports containing audited financial statements to its common stockholders.       
  ITEM 1A.        RISK FACTORS           Risk Factors Related to Our Business    
  An investment in our securities involves various risks. All investors should carefully consider the following risk factors in conjunction with the
other information in this report before trading our securities.       Adverse events concerning existing tenants or negative market
conditions that may affect existing tenants could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract new tenants, re-let space, collect rent or renew leases, and thus could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and inhibit growth.
      Our cash flow from operations depends on the ability to lease space to tenants on economically favorable terms. Therefore, we could be
adversely affected by various facts and events over which we have limited control, such as:       

lack of demand for space in areas where the Company s properties are located;         

inability to retain existing tenants and attract new tenants;         

oversupply of or reduced demand for space and changes in market rental rates;         

defaults by tenants or failure to pay rent on a timely basis;         

the need to periodically renovate and repair marketable space;         

physical damage to properties;         

economic or physical decline of the areas where properties are located;         

potential risk of functional obsolescence of properties over time.        At any time, any of our tenants may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. As a result, a tenant may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, decline to
extend a lease upon its expiration, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. Any tenant bankruptcy or insolvency, leasing delay or failure to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of the tenant s lease and material losses
to our Company.      If tenants do not renew their leases as they expire, we may not be able to rent the space. Furthermore, leases that are
renewed, and some new leases for space that is re-let, may have terms that are less economically favorable to us than current lease terms, or may require us to incur significant costs, such as for renovations, tenant improvements or lease
transaction costs.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   Any of these events could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make expected
distributions to shareholders and service our indebtedness.      A significant portion of our costs, such as real estate taxes, insurance
costs, and debt service payments, generally are not reduced when circumstances cause a decrease in cash flow from our properties.       We
may not be able to compete successfully with other entities that operate in our industry.       We experience a great deal of competition in
attracting tenants for our properties and in locating land to develop and properties to acquire.      In our effort to lease our properties, we
compete for tenants with a broad spectrum of other landlords in each of our markets. These competitors include, among others, publicly-held REITs, privately-held entities, individual property owners and tenants who wish to sublease their space. Some
of these competitors may be able to offer prospective tenants more attractive financial terms than we are able to offer.      If the
availability of land or high quality properties in our markets diminishes, our operating results could be adversely affected.       We may
experience increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our operations.       Our properties are subject to increases in operating
expenses such as insurance, cleaning, electricity, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, administrative costs and other costs associated with security, landscaping, repairs and maintenance of our properties. While our current tenants generally
are obligated to pay a portion of these costs, there is no assurance that these tenants will make such payments or agree to pay these costs upon renewal or that new tenants will agree to pay these costs. If operating expenses increase in our
markets, we may not be able to increase rents or reimbursements in all of these markets so as to meet increased expenses without, at the same time, decreasing occupancy rates. If this occurs, our ability to make distributions to shareholders and
service our indebtedness could be adversely affected.       We face risks associated with property acquisitions.       We acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties, and intend to continue to do so. Our acquisition activities and their successes are subject
to the following risks:       

when we are able to locate a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price;         

acquired properties may fail to perform as expected;         

the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than original estimates;         

acquired properties may be located in new markets where IORI faces risks associated with an incomplete knowledge or understanding of the local market, a limited number of
established business relationships in the area and a relative unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures;         

we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into existing operations, and results of operations
and financial condition could be adversely affected.        We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any
recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely
affect our cash flow.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Many of our properties are concentrated in our primary markets, and we therefore may suffer economic
harm as a result of adverse conditions in those markets.       Our properties are located principally in specific geographic areas in the
Southwestern United States. Due to the concentration of our properties in these areas, performance is dependent on economic conditions in these areas. These areas have experienced periods of economic decline.       We may not be able to access financial markets to obtain capital on a timely basis, or on acceptable terms.       We rely on proceeds from property dispositions and third party capital sources for a portion of our capital needs, including capital for acquisitions and
development. The public debt and equity markets are among the sources on which we rely. There is no guarantee that we will be able to access these markets, or any other source of capital. The ability to access the public debt and equity markets
depends on a variety of factors, including:       

general economic conditions affecting these markets;         

our own financial structure and performance;         

the market s opinion of REITS and real estate companies in general;         

the market s opinion of REITS and real estate companies that own properties like ours.         We may suffer adverse effects as a result of the terms of and covenants relating to our indebtedness.       Required payments on our indebtedness generally are not reduced if the economic performance of the portfolios declines. If the economic performance
declines, net income, cash flow from operations and cash available for distribution to stockholders will be reduced. If payments on debt cannot be made, we could sustain a loss, or in the case of mortgages, suffer foreclosures by mortgagees or
suffer judgments. Further, some obligations contain cross-default and/or cross-acceleration provisions, meaning that a default on one obligation may constitute a default on other obligations.      We anticipate that only a small portion of the principal of our debt will be repaid prior to maturity. Therefore, we are likely to need to refinance at
least a portion of our outstanding debts as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. If principal payments due at
maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or repaid with proceeds from other sources, such as the proceeds of sales of assets or new equity securities, our cash flow will not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt in years when significant
 balloon  payments come due.      Our credit facilities and unsecured debt securities contain customary restrictions, requirements
and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including total debt to asset ratios, secured debt to total asset ratios, debt service coverage ratios and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt which we must maintain.
Our continued ability to borrow is subject to compliance with our financial and other covenants. In addition, our failure to comply with such covenants could cause a default under credit facilities, and we may then be required to repay such debt
with capital from other sources. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms.       Our degree of leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing or affect the market price of our common stock.       Our degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. Our degree of leverage could
also make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    An increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on variable rate debt and could
adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt.       We currently have, and may incur more, indebtedness that bears interest at
variable rates. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.
Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures.       We may need to sell properties from
time to time for cash flow purposes.       Because of the lack of liquidity of real estate investments generally, our ability to respond to
changing circumstances may be impaired. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. In the event that we must sell assets to generate cash flow, we cannot predict whether there will be a market for those assets in the time period we
desire or need to sell them, or whether we will be able to sell them at a price that will allow us to fully recoup our investment. We may not be able to realize the full potential value of our assets, and we may incur costs related to the early
pay-off of the debt secured by such assets.       Our business overall is subject to all of the risks associated with the real estate
industry.       We are subject to all risks incident to investment in real estate, many of which relate to the general lack of liquidity of
real estate investments, including, but not limited to:       

changes in general or local economic conditions because our real estate assets are concentrated on the Southwest, any deterioration in the general economic conditions in any of
those states could have an adverse effect on our business and assets in that state;         

changes in interest rates that may make our ability to satisfy our debt service requirements materially more burdensome;         

lack of availability of financing that may render the purchase, sale or refinancing of a property more difficult or unattractive;         

changes in real estate and zoning laws;         

increases in real estate taxes and insurance costs;         

federal or local economic or rent control;         

floods, earthquakes and other similar natural disasters.         
  ITEM 1B.       UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS          None.       

ITEM 2.   
      PROPERTIES            IORI s
principal executive office has been located since January 1, 2005 at 1755 Wittington Place, Suite 340, Dallas, Texas 75234 and is, in the opinion of management, suitable and adequate for IORI s present operations.      IORI s real estate portfolio at December 31, 2005 is set forth in Schedule III to the Consolidated Financial Statements included at
ITEM 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA. The following provides certain summary information concerning IORI s real estate portfolio.      At March 15, 2006, IORI s real estate portfolio consists of 11 owned properties and an investment in a partnership which owns commercial property. Of the 11 owned properties, in 2002 six apartments were sold
to  
       
   9   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

partnerships controlled by METRA Capital, LLC ( METRA ). See NOTE 5. NOTES AND INTEREST PAYABLE. Since that transaction was accounted for as a
financing transaction, IORI continues to account for those properties as owned properties. IORI is a partner in a partnership in which it is a 40% general partner that holds a wraparound mortgage note. At December 31, 2005, IORI held equity
investments in apartments and office buildings in the Southwest region of the continental United States, and more specifically in Texas.      At December 31, 2005, 31% of IORI s assets consisted of investment in owned real properties on a leveraged basis, in the Southwest region of the continental United States, and 63% consisted of notes receivable. Less than 1% of
IORI s assets consisted of investments in partnerships. The remaining 5% of IORI s assets were cash, cash equivalents and other assets. The percentage of IORI s assets invested in any one category is subject to change and no assurance
can be given that the composition of IORI s assets in the future will approximate the percentages listed above. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS Business Plan.       Geographic Regions       All of IORI s properties are located in Texas.       Real Estate        Types of Real Estate Investments.       IORI s real estate consists of apartments and commercial properties (office buildings) with established income-producing capabilities and undeveloped
land. In selecting real estate for investment, the location, age, and type of property, gross rents; lease terms; financial and business standing of tenants; operating expenses; fixed charges; land values and physical condition are considered. IORI
may acquire properties subject to, or assume, existing debt and may mortgage, pledge or otherwise obtain financing. The IORI Board may alter the types of and criteria for selecting new real estate investments and for obtaining financing. IORI has
typically invested in developed real estate, although it also may invest in new construction or development either directly or in partnership with non-affiliated parties or affiliates (subject to approval by the Board). To the extent that IORI
invests in construction and development projects, it will be subject to business risks, such as cost overruns and construction delays, associated with such higher risk projects.      In the opinion of management, IORI s properties are adequately covered by insurance.      During 2005, the activity in IORI s owned real estate portfolio was:       

*  
  During 2005, IORI purchased land from TCI (a related party). The transaction has been treated as a financing transaction for accounting purposes (See NOTE 6. RELATED PARTY
TRANSACTIONS).           
   10   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Properties Held for Investment.     Set forth below are IORI s owned
properties at December 31, 2005, all of which were held for investment, and the monthly rental rate for apartments, the average annual rental rate for office buildings and the occupancy for both at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:
      
     Partnership Properties.     Set forth below is the commercial property
owned by the partnership in which IORI is an equity investor and the average annual rental rate and occupancy thereof at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:       
     Mortgage Loans       Prior to 1991, a substantial portion of IORI s assets were invested in mortgage notes secured by income-producing real estate. These mortgage notes included first, wraparound and junior mortgage loans. Prior to
the third quarter of 2000, management had not sought to fund or acquire new mortgage loans, other than those which may have originated in conjunction with purchase money financing of a property sale provided by IORI. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
     IORI funded no new mortgage notes in 2005.       Junior Mortgage Loans.     Junior mortgage loans are loans secured by mortgages that are subordinate to one or more prior liens either on the fee or a leasehold interest in real estate.
Recourse on the loans ordinarily includes the real estate which secures the loan, other collateral and personal guarantees of the borrower.      On September 30, 2004, a secured promissory note in the amount of $1,222,500 issued by Unified Housing Foundation, Inc. ( UHF ) for Unified Housing of Parkside Crossing, LLC to Regis I and the accrued interest receivable of
$112,878 were assigned from Regis I to IORI as a pay down of certain intercompany receivables.      On September 30, 2004, a secured
promissory note in the amount of $1,053,616 issued by UHF for Unified Housing of Temple, LLC to Regis I and the accrued interest receivable of $98,338 were assigned from Regis I to IORI as a pay down of certain intercompany receivables.   
     
   11   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   On September 30, 2004, a secured promissory note in the amount of $835,658 issued by UHF for Unified
Housing of Terrell, LLC to Regis I and the accrued interest receivable of $80,223 were assigned from Regis I to IORI as a pay down of certain intercompany receivables.      On September 30, 2004, a secured promissory note in the amount of $1,770,000 issued by UHF for Housing for Seniors of Lewisville, LLC to Regis I and the accrued interest receivable of $174,640 were assigned from
Regis I to IORI as a pay down of certain intercompany receivables.      On May 24, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of
$2,990,000 issued by UHF for Unified Housing of McKinney, LLC to Transcontinental Eldorado, Inc. was assigned from TCI to IORI as a partial payment for TCI s repurchase of 100% of the outstanding common shares of Transcontinental Treehouse
Corporation ( Treehouse-IR ) from IORI.      On December 30, 2003, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $6,363,360 issued
by Housing for Seniors of Humble, LLC ( Humble ) to NLP Lakeshore Villas, LLC ( NLP ) was assigned from ARI to IORI as a pay down of certain intercompany receivables.      On December 30, 2003, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $2,000,000 issued by Humble to NLP was assigned from ARI to IORI as additional pay
down of certain intercompany receivables.      On October 14, 2003, IORI purchased, sold and conveyed an office building known as One
Hickory Centre and 202 acres of unimproved real property known as the Travelers Land in Dallas County, Texas to Encino Executive Plaza, Ltd. The sale price for One Hickory Centre was $12,200,000 and Encino Executive Plaza, Ltd. executed a
wrap-around promissory note in the amount of $11,973,025 payable to the order of IORI secured by a Deed of Trust encumbering One Hickory Centre. The remaining difference was a result of pro-rations and various expenses paid by IORI in connection
with the closing of the transaction. The note bears interest at 5.5% per annum. The sales price for the Travelers Land was $25,000,000. At closing, Encino Executive Plaza, Ltd. executed an all inclusive wrap-around promissory note payable to
the order of IORI in the principal amount of $22,801,987 secured by a Deed of Trust covering the Travelers Land sold and delivered cash to IORI in the amount of $1,946,715. As with the prior transaction, the difference between the purchase price and
the promissory note represented adjustments for various pro-rations. The note bears interest at 5.5% per annum. Subsequently, IORI made a loan to Encino Executive Plaza, Ltd. in the amount of $1,567,232 payable upon demand, or if no demand is
made prior thereto on June 30, 2006, with a market rate of interest. Encino Executive Plaza, Ltd. executed and delivered a promissory note payable to the order of IORI in the stated principal amount of $1,567,232. The note bears interest at
5.5% per annum.       Partnership mortgage loans.     IORI owns a 40% general partner interest and TCI owns a 60%
general partner interest in Nakash Income Associates ( NIA ), which holds a wraparound mortgage note receivable secured by a building occupied by a Wal-Mart in Maulden, Missouri.       

ITEM 3.   
      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS            The Company
and its subsidiaries, from time to time, have been involved in various items of litigation incidental to and in the ordinary course of its business and, in the opinion of management, the outcome of such litigation will not have a material adverse
impact upon the Company s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.      During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year
covered by this Report, no proceeding previously reported was terminated. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, the Innovo Realty, Inc. proceeding filed August 10, 2004 was resolved. (See NOTE 5. NOTES AND INTEREST PAYABLE).
     Also, on May 16, 2005, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division, entered its Memorandum
Opinion and Order and Judgment dismissing a purported stockholders  derivative  
       
   12   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

action filed October 5, 2004 filed by Sunset Management LLC against a number of entities, including the Company. The Court s Judgment granted a
Motion to Dismiss filed by the Defendants, including the Company, and ordered that Plaintiff Sunset Management LLC take nothing by its suit. No appeal was timely filed, and the dismissal of the action is now final. The Sunset complaint made no real
allegations against the Company and sought no specified relief against the Company but did allege that as of March 1, 2003, TCI owns 24% of the stock of the Company.       

ITEM 4.   
      SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS            Registrant s Annual Meeting of Stockholders occurred on December 15, 2005, for which proxies were solicited pursuant to Regulation 14 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ).
There was no solicitation in opposition to the management nominees listed in the proxy statement and all of such nominees were elected. At the Annual Meeting, stockholders were asked to consider and vote upon the election of directors, an amendment
to the Articles of Incorporation to increase the authorized number of shares of Common Stock to 100,000,000 shares, and to increase the authorized number of shares of Preferred Stock to 10,000,000 shares, each with a par value of $0.01 per share,
and the ratification of the selection of the independent registered public accounting firm for IORI for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005 and any interim period.      With respect to each nominee for election as a director, the following table sets forth the number of votes cast for or withheld:       
    There were no broker non-votes on the election of directors. All nominees were elected.
     With respect to the approval of an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation to increase the authorized number of shares of Common Stock
and Preferred Stock, 3,514,489 votes were received in favor of such proposal, 34,257 were received against such proposal, 14,625 votes abstained and 203,607 broker non-votes occurred. With respect to the ratification of Swalm   Associates,
P.C. as the independent registered public accountant for the Company for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005 and any interim period, 3,746,233 votes were received in favor of such proposal, 6,970 votes were received against such proposal,
and 13,775 votes abstained; there were no broker non-votes on this issue.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

PART II        

ITEM 5.   
      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES          The Company s Common Stock is listed and traded on the AMEX under the symbol  IOT.  The following table sets forth the high and low closing
sales prices for the Company s Common Stock for each full, quarterly period within the two most recent fiscal years and any subsequent interim period as reported by published financial sources from the AMEX.       
    On March 15, 2006, the closing sale price of the Company s Common Stock on the AMEX was
$6.80 per share. As of March 15, 2006, the Company s Common Stock was held by approximately 860 holders of record.      On
May 10, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a 3-for-1 forward split of the Common Stock with a Record Date of June 10, 2005. The forward split entitled stockholders to receive two additional newly-issued shares of Common
Stock for each share of Common Stock held as of the Record Date in the form of a 200% share distribution. Certificates for the new shares were mailed to stockholders on or about June 14, 2005. After giving effect to the 3-for-1 forward split of
the Common Stock of the Company, a total of 4,168,035 shares of Common Stock were outstanding.      No cash dividends on the Company s
Common Stock were declared or paid in 2004 or 2005. Although no express intention or policy with respect to the future declaration or payment of cash dividends has been adopted by the Board of Directors, it is unlikely that any cash dividends on the
Company s Common Stock will be declared or paid in 2006. See also, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources.      On December 5, 1989, the governing body of the predecessor of the Company approved a share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to a
total of 200,000 shares of the predecessor. In June 2000, the Board of Directors of the Company increased the authorization to 300,000 shares. With the 3-for-1 forward split of the Company s Common Stock in June 2005, such authorization would
be appropriately increased to 900,000 shares and the number of shares previously purchased would be appropriately increased by the same ratio. Through December 31, 2005, an adjusted total of 805,212 shares (268,404 pre-forward split shares) out
of the total authorization of up to 900,000 shares had been repurchased at an aggregate cost of $2.7 million. During the three months ended December 31, 2005, no share repurchases occurred, and the maximum number of shares remaining available
for purchase under such plan is 94,788 shares. The following table represents shares repurchased during the three months ended December 30, 2005:       
       
   14   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

ITEM 6.   
      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA             
    IORI purchased four properties for a total of $21.0 million in 2004. IORI sold four properties for
a total of $55.7 million in 2003 and two properties for a total of $19.2 million in 2002. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Real Estate and ITEM 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.         
   15   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

ITEM 7.   
      MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULT OF OPERATIONS            The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report.      This Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, principally, but not only, under the
captions  Business,   Risk Factors  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  We caution investors that any forward-looking statements in this report, or which
management may make orally or in writing from time to time, are based on management s beliefs and on assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words  anticipate,   believe, 
 expect,   intend,   may,   might,   plan,   estimate,   project,   should,   will,   result  and similar expressions which do not relate solely to
historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance, which may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends,
uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or
projected. We caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. We
expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, investors should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements, which are
based on results and trends at the time they are made, to anticipate future results or trends.      Some of the risks and uncertainties that
may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:       

general risks affecting the real estate industry (including, without limitation, the inability to enter into or renew leases, dependence on tenants  financial condition, and
competition from other developers, owners and operators of real estate);         

risks associated with the availability and terms of financing and the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments;         

failure to manage effectively our growth and expansion into new markets or to integrate acquisitions successfully;         

risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including, without limitation, construction delays, cost overruns, inability to obtain necessary permits and
public opposition to such activities);         

risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies, increases in interest rates, and volatility in the securities markets;         

costs of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar laws and regulations;         

potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental contamination;         

risks associated with our dependence on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed; and         

the other risk factors identified in this Form 10-K, including those described under the caption  Risk Factors.         The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report, including  Part I, ITEM I. BUSINESS  Risk Factors , 
include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for
management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we  
       
   16   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ
materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Investors should also refer to our
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for future periods and current reports on Form 8-K as we file them with the SEC, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through Forms 8-K or otherwise.       Overview       IORI invests in equity interests in real
estate through acquisitions, leases, partnerships and in mortgage loans. IORI is the successor to a California business trust organized on December 14, 1984, which commenced operations on April 10, 1985.       Critical Accounting Policies       The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. We
base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These judgments affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions had been different, it is
possible that different accounting policies would have been applied resulting in a different presentation of our financial statements. From time to time, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. In the event estimates or assumptions prove to be
different from actual results, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more current information. Below is a discussion of accounting policies that we consider critical in that they may require complex judgment in their application or
require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.        Real Estate Held for Investment        Real estate held for investment is carried at cost. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  ( SFAS No. 144 ), requires that a property be considered impaired if the sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount of the
property. If impairment exists, an impairment loss is recognized, by a charge against earnings, equal to the amount by which the carrying amount of the property exceeds the fair value less cost to sell the property. If impairment of a property is
recognized, the carrying amount of the property is reduced by the amount of the impairment, and a new cost for the property is established. Such new cost is depreciated over the property s remaining useful life. Depreciation is provided by the
straight-line method over estimated useful lives, which range from five to 40 years.        Real Estate Held-for-Sale        Foreclosed real estate is initially recorded at new cost, defined as the lower of original cost or fair value minus estimated costs of sale. SFAS
No. 144 also requires that properties held for sale be reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less costs of sale. If a reduction in a held for sale property s carrying amount to fair value less costs of sale is required, a
provision for loss is recognized by a charge against earnings. Subsequent revisions, either upward or downward, to a held for sale property s estimated fair value less costs of sale are recorded as an adjustment to the property s carrying
amount, but not in excess of the property s carrying amount when originally classified as held for sale. A corresponding charge against or credit to earnings is recognized. Properties held for sale are not depreciated.        Investments in Equity Investees        IORI may be
considered to have the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and investment policies of certain of its investees. Those investees are accounted for using the equity method. Under  
       
   17   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

the equity method, an initial investment, recorded at cost, is increased by a proportionate share of the investee s operating income and any additional
investment and decreased by a proportionate share of the investee s operating losses and distributions received.        Recognition of Rental Income
       Rental income for commercial property leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms. Rental income
for residential property leases is recorded when due from residents and is recognized monthly as earned, which is not materially different than on a straight-line basis as lease terms are generally for periods of one year or less. For hotel
properties, revenues for room sales and guest services are recognized as rooms are occupied and services are rendered.        Revenue Recognition on the
Sale of Real Estate        Sales of real estate are recognized when and to the extent permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 66,  Accounting for Sales of Real Estate  ( SFAS No. 66 ), as amended by SFAS No. 144. Until the requirements of SFAS No. 66 for full profit recognition have been met, transactions are accounted
for using the deposit, installment, cost recovery or financing method, whichever is appropriate. When IORI provides seller financing, gain is not recognized at the time of sale unless the buyer s initial investment and continuing investment are
deemed to be adequate as determined by SFAS 66 guidelines.        Non-performing Notes Receivable        IORI considers a note receivable to be non-performing when the maturity date has passed without principal repayment and the borrower is not making
interest payments. Any new note receivable that results from a modification or extension of a note considered non-performing will also be considered non-performing, without regard to the borrower s adherence to payment terms.        Interest Recognition on Notes Receivable        Interest income is not recognized on notes receivable that have been delinquent for 60 days or more. In addition, accrued but unpaid interest income is only recognized to the extent that the net realizable value of the underlying collateral
exceeds the carrying value of the receivable.        Allowance for Estimated Losses        A valuation allowance is provided for estimated losses on notes receivable considered to be impaired. Impairment is considered to exist when it is
probable that all amounts due under the terms of the note will not be collected. Valuation allowances are provided for estimated losses on notes receivable to the extent that the investment in the note exceeds management s estimate of fair
value of the collateral securing such note.        Fair Value of Financial Instruments        The following assumptions were used in estimating the fair value of its notes receivable, marketable equity securities and notes payable. For performing
notes receivable, the fair value was estimated by discounting future cash flows using current interest rates for similar loans. For non-performing notes receivable, the estimated fair value of IORI s interest in the collateral property was
used. For marketable equity securities, fair value was based on the year-end closing market price of each security. For notes payable, the fair value was estimated using current rates for mortgages with similar terms and maturities.       Obligations and Commitments       IORI has contractual
obligations and commitments primarily with regarding the payment of mortgages.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   The following table aggregates IORI s expected contractual obligations and commitments subsequent to
December 31, 2005. (Dollars in thousands.)       Payments Due by Period        (dollars in thousands)        Principal Payments        
     Liquidity and Capital Resources       Cash and cash equivalents totaled $201,000 and $399,000 at December 31, 2005 and 2004. IORI s principal sources of cash have been and will
continue to be property operations, proceeds from property sales and refinancing and partnership distributions. Management anticipates that, in 2006, IORI will refinance it s debt obligations as they become due and generate excess cash from
operations due however, if refinancing and excess cash from operations does not prove to be sufficient to satisfy all IORI s obligations as they mature, when necessary, management also may selectively sell income producing real estate,
refinance real estate and incur additional borrowings secured by real estate to meet cash requirements.      Net cash provided (used) by
operating activities was $1,184,000 in 2005, ($425,000) in 2004, and $92,000 in 2003. Cash flow from property operations is rents collected, less payment for property operating expenses or operating income. Operating income was slightly higher and
general   administrative expenses, advisory fees and net income fees were slightly lower in 2005 as compared to 2004. The combination of these factors accounted for additional cash flow from operating activities of approximately $600,000 in
2005 when compared to 2004. The balance of the increase in cash provided in 2005 as compared to 2004 is primarily due to increased interest income being collected.      Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities was ($9.9 million) in 2005, $1.8 million in 2004 and $60,000 in 2003. During 2005 IORI loaned TCI $ 7.0 million (See NOTE 6. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS). During
2004 and 2003, IORI received $5.7 million, and 9.6 million, respectively, from the sale of real estate. In accordance with the advisory agreement, IORI provided funds to the advisor of $2.8 million, 3.8 million, and 8.0 million
in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.      Net cash provided (used) from financing activities was $8.6 million in 2005, $(1.0 million) in 2004
and $(104,000) in 2003. During 2005, IORI refinanced an existing mortgage and obtained a new mortgage which netted $8.7 million which offset loan payments made of $7.5 million. In addition, IORI borrowed $7 million from a third party and
loaned, the proceeds to TCI (See NOTE 6. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS). During 2004 and 2003, IORI refinanced certain loans the proceeds of which approximated the principal payments made.      IORI paid no dividends in 2005, 2004, or 2003. It is unlikely that IORI will pay any quarterly dividends for 2006.      Management reviews the carrying values of IORI s properties at least annually and whenever events or a change in circumstances indicate that
impairment may exist. Impairment is considered to exist if the future cash flow from a property (undiscounted and without interest) is less than the carrying amount of the property. If impairment is found to exist, a provision for loss is recorded
by a charge against earnings. The property review  
       
   19   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

generally includes selective property inspections, discussions with the manager of the property and visits to selected properties in the area and a review of
(1) the property s current rents compared to market rents, (2) the property s expenses, (3) the property s maintenance requirements and (4) the property s cash flows.       Results of Operations        2005 compared to
2004  IORI reported net income of $1.4 million in 2005, and $5.4 million 2004 including a gain on the sale of assets totaling $5.5 million. Fluctuations in components of revenue and expense are discussed below.      Rents were $6.4 million in 2005, and $5.9 million in 2004. The increase is due to a combination of increased occupancy as well as increased rental rates.
     Property operations expense was $3.4 million in 2005 and $3.1 million in 2004. The slight increase is due to an overall increase in
operating expenses.      Interest income was $4.1 million in 2005 and $3.3 million in 2004. The increase is due to a full year of interest in
2005 for notes that were acquired during the first half of 2004 and $218,000 interest on a $7.0 million loan made in August 2005 to TCI (a related party).      Interest expense was $3.6 million in 2005 and $3.6 million in 2004. There was a $218,000 increase in interest expense on a $7.0 million loan to purchase land from TCI (a related party). In addition, there was a
decrease due to a forgiveness of interest which occurred as part of the METRA SETTLEMENT (See NOTE 5. NOTES AND INTEREST PAYABLE).      Depreciation expense was $691,000 in 2005 and $740,000 in 2004. The decrease was due to the sale of properties in 2004 as well as fully depreciated tenant improvements in 2005 and 2004.      Advisory fee to affiliate was $738,000 in 2005 and $741,000 in 2004 (See NOTE 9. ADVISORY AGREEMENT).      The net income fee was $109,000 in 2005 as compared to $440,000 in 2004. The net income fee is based on 7.5% of IORI s net income.      General and administrative expense was $615,000 in 2005, and $563,000 in 2004 The increase was due principally to professional fees paid in 2005 as a
result of the METRA SETTLEMENT as well as matters pertaining to the METRA agreement in general.      Equity losses in partnership were $57,000
in 2005 and $3,000 in 2004. IORI is a non-controlling partner in two partnerships (See NOTE 4. INVESTMENT IN EQUITY METHOD PARTNERSHIPS).       2004 compared to 2003  IORI reported net income of $5.4 million in 2004 including a gain on the sale of assets totaling $5.5 million, and $1.3 million 2003. Fluctuations in components of revenue and expense are discussed
below.      Rents were $5.9 million in 2004, and $5.2 million in 2003. The increase is due to a combination of slightly increased occupancy as
well as increased rental rates.      Property operations expense was $3.1 million in 2004, $3.3 million in 2003. The slight decrease in 2004
from 2003 was due to a decrease in property taxes.      Interest income was $3.3 million in 2004 and $626,000 in 2003. The significant increase
was due to additional interest earned from the additional notes receivable obtained from affiliates of IORI.      Interest expense was $3.6
million in 2004, and $1.8 million in 2003. The increase was due to increase in METRA net income and the purchase of Parkway Centre and One Hickory Center in late 2003.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   Depreciation expense was $740,000 in 2004, and $816,000 in 2003. The decrease was due to sale of
properties and fully depreciated tenant improvements in 2004.      Advisory fee to affiliate were $741,000 in 2004, and $424,000 in 2003 (See
NOTE 9. ADVISORY AGREEMENT).      IORI paid net income fees to its contractual advisors of $440,000 in 2004, and $109,000 in 2003. The net
income fee is based on 7.5% of IORI s net income.      General and administrative expense was $563,000 in 2004 and $779,000 in 2003. The
decrease was primarily due to decrease in legal fees and advisor cost reimbursement.      Equity losses in partnerships were $3,000 in 2004 and
$7,000 in 2003.      IORI realized gains on the sale of real estate of $5.5 million in 2004, and $3.8 million in 2003. In 2004, the gains on
sale of real estate derived from the sale of Akard and Yeager, Treehouse (San Antonio), and Frankel Land. In 2003, the gains on sale of real estate represent the gain on the sale of Mowry and La Mesa commercial properties.      IORI realized a loss on operations from discontinued operations of $89,000 in 2004, and $1.8 million in 2003. The loss relates to the operating losses on
two commercial properties, two residential properties, and a land property that IORI sold during 2004. The following table summarizes revenue and expense information for the properties sold.       
     Environmental Matters       Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, IORI may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other potential costs, relating to hazardous
or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property) where property-level managers have arranged for the removal, disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain environmental laws
impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may seek recovery for personal injury associated with such materials.      Management is not aware of any environmental liability relating to the above matters that would have a material adverse effect on IORI s business, assets or results of operations.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Newly Issued Accounting Standards       In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123-R,  Share-Based Payment.  This Statement
addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions in which a company receives employee services in exchange for (a) equity instruments of the company, such as stock options, or (b) liabilities, such as those related to
performance units, that are based on the fair value of the company s equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of such equity instruments.      SFAS No. 123-R, which is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using APB Opinion No. 25,
and generally requires that such transactions be accounted for using prescribed fair-value-based methods. SFAS No. 123-R permits public companies to adopt its requirements using one of two methods: (a) a  modified prospective 
method in which compensation costs are recognized beginning with the effective date based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123-R for all share-based payments granted after the effective date and based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123 for
all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS No. 123-R that remain unvested on the effective date or (b) a  modified retrospective  method which includes the requirements of the modified prospective method
described above, but also permits companies to restate based on the amounts previously recognized under SFAS No. 123 for purposes of pro forma disclosures either for all periods presented or prior interim periods of the year of adoption.
     The Company has decided to adopt SFAS No. 123-R using the modified prospective method. SFAS No. 123(R) must be applied not only
to new awards but to previously granted awards that are not fully vested on the effective date. All of IORI s options were fully vested as of the effective date, and IORI has no outstanding options that were granted, modified, or settled after
the effective date, so additional compensation costs for previously granted awards will not be recognized. In December 2005, the Company s Board of Directors cancelled the stock option plan, and at the present time, the Company has no plans to
offer additional stock options. The Company does not believe the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) will have a material impact on its financial statements or results of operations.      In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  ( Statement No. 154 ). Statement
No. 154, which replaces APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes  and FASB Statement No. 3,  Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements , changes the requirements for the accounting for and
reporting of a change in accounting principle. The statement requires retrospective application of changes in accounting principle to prior periods  financial statements unless it is impracticable to determine the period-specific effects or the
cumulative effect of the change. Statement No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The adoption of Statement No. 154 is not expected to have a
material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows of IORI.      In June 2005, the FASB ratified the
consensus in EITF Issue No. 04-5,  Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights  ( Issue 04-5 ),
which provides guidance in determining whether a general partner controls a limited partnership. Issue 04-5 states that the general partner in a limited partnership is presumed to control that limited partnership. The presumption may be overcome if
the limited partners have either (1) the substantive ability to dissolve the limited partnership or otherwise remove the general partner without cause or (2) substantive participating rights, which provide the limited partners with the
ability to effectively participate in significant decisions that would be expected to be made in the ordinary course of the limited partnership s business and thereby preclude the general partner from exercising unilateral control over the
partnership. The adoption of Issue 04-5 by us for new or modified limited partnership arrangements is effective June 30, 2005 and for existing limited partnership arrangements effective January 1, 2006. We do not expect that we will be
required to consolidate our current unconsolidated joint venture investments nor do we expect Issue 04-5 to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   At its June 2005 meeting, the EITF reached a consensus regarding Issue No. 05-6 ( Issue
05-6 ),  Determining the Amortization Period for Leasehold Improvements.  Issue 05-6 is effective for periods beginning after June 29, 2005. The guidance requires that leasehold improvements acquired in a business combination or
purchased subsequent to the inception of a lease be amortized over the lesser of the useful life of the assets or a term that includes renewals that are reasonably assured at the date of acquisition or purchase. The adoption of Issue 05-6 did not
have a material impact to our financial condition or results of operations.       Inflation       The effects of inflation on IORI s operations are not quantifiable. Revenues from property operations tend to fluctuate proportionately with
inflationary increases and decreases in housing costs. Fluctuations in the rate of inflation also affect the sales values of properties and the ultimate gain to be realized from property sales. To the extent that inflation affects interest rates,
earnings from short-term investments and the cost of new financings as well as the cost of variable interest rate debt will be affected.       Taxes
      For the years 2002 and 2001, IORI elected and in the opinion of management qualified to be taxed as a REIT as defined under Sections
856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. To continue to qualify for federal taxation as a REIT among other requirements, IORI was required to hold at least 75% of the value of its total assets in real estate assets,
government securities, cash, and cash equivalents at the close of each quarter of each taxable year. As a REIT, IORI was also required to distribute at least 90% (95% in 2000) of its REIT taxable income plus 90% (95% in 2000) of its net income from
foreclosure property on an annual basis to stockholders.      Due to the completion of the tender offer by ARI on March 19, 2003, and the
resulting concentration of ownership, IORI no longer met the requirement for tax treatment as a REIT as of January 1, 2003. IORI cannot re-qualify for tax treatment as a REIT for at least five years.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

ITEM 7A.       QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES REGARDING MARKET RISK          IORI s future operations, cash flow and fair values of financial instruments are partially dependent upon the then existing market interest rates and market equity prices. Market risk is the change in the market
rates and prices and the affect of these changes on future operations. Market risk is managed by matching the property s anticipated net operating income to an appropriate financing.      IORI is exposed to interest rate risk associated with variable rate notes payable and maturing debt that has to be refinanced. IORI does not hold
financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes, but rather issues these financial instruments to finance its portfolio of real estate assets. IORI s interest rate sensitivity position is managed by IORI s finance
department. Interest rate sensitivity is the relationship between changes in market interest rates and the fair value of market rate-sensitive assets and liabilities. IORI s earnings are affected as changes in short-term interest rates impact
its cost of variable rate debt and maturing fixed rate debt. A large portion of IORI s market risk is exposure to short-term interest rates from variable rate borrowings. The impact on IORI s financial statements of refinancing fixed debt
that matured during 2003 was not material. If market interest rates for variable rate debt average 100 basis points more in 2004 than they did during 2003, IORI s interest expense would increase and income would decrease by $164,000. This
amount is determined by considering the impact of hypothetical interest rates on IORI s borrowing cost. This analysis did not consider the effects of the reduced level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment.
Further, in the event of a change of such magnitude, management would likely take actions to further mitigate its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the
sensitivity analysis assumes no change in IORI s financial structure.      The following table contains only those exposures that existed
at December 31, 2005. Anticipation of exposures or risk on positions that could possibly arise was not considered. IORI s ultimate interest rate risk and its affect on operations will depend on future capital market exposures, which cannot
be anticipated with a probable assurance level. (dollars in thousands.)       
       
   24   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

ITEM 8.   
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA             
  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        
    All other schedules are omitted because they are not required, are not applicable, or the
information required is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       Board of Directors of      Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc.      Dallas, Texas      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and
2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      As described in Note 17, Income Opportunity
Realty Investors, Inc. s management has indicated its intent to sell income producing properties and refinance or extend debt secured by real estate and/or incur additional borrowings to meet its liquidity needs.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Income
Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc. as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of its operations, changes in stockholders  equity and its cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.      Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
Schedules III and IV are presented for the purpose of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and is not a required part of the basic consolidated financial statements. These schedules have been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the consolidated financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states, in all material respects, the financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to the consolidated financial statements taken as
a whole.      /s/ Swalm   Associates, P.C.      Plano, Texas
     March 15, 2006         
   26   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       Board of Directors of      Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc.      We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders  equity and cash flows of Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc. and subsidiaries for the year ended December 31,
2003. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements and schedules are free of material misstatement. The company is not required to have, nor have we been engaged to perform, an audit of its internal
control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on
the effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and
schedules. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements and schedules. We believe our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated results of operations of Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc. and subsidiaries and their cash flows for year ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.      Also, in our opinion, the schedules referred to above presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein.      /s/ Farmer, Fuqua   Huff, P.C.      Farmer, Fuqua,   Huff, P.C.      Plano, Texas      August 19, 2005         
   27   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        
    Stockholders equity reflects a 3-for-1 forward split of the stock in the form of a 200% stock dividend in May
2005.      The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS        
    Earnings per share reflects a 3-for-1 forward split of the stock in the form of a
200% stock dividend in May 2005.          The accompanying notes are an
integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   29   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY
       
    Shares issued and outstanding reflect a 3-for-1 forward split of the stock in the form of a 200% stock dividend in
May 2005.                  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        
        The accompanying notes are an
integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc. and consolidated entities were prepared in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the most significant of which are described in NOTE 1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES.  The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. The data presented in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are as of December 31 of each year and for the year then ended, unless otherwise indicated. Dollar amounts in tables
are in thousands, except per share amounts.      Certain balances for 2004 and 2003 have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation.

NOTE 1.   
      SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES              Organization and business.     Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc. ( IORI ) is the successor to a California business trust organized on December 14, 1984, which
commenced operations on April 10, 1985. IORI invests in real estate through direct ownership, leases and partnerships and it also may invest in mortgage loans on real estate.       Basis of consolidation.     The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of IORI and controlled subsidiaries and
partnerships. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.       Accounting
estimates.     In the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, it is necessary for management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the year then
ended. Actual results could differ from those estimates.       Recent Accounting pronouncements.     SFAS
No. 123 In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Share-Based Payment, revised ( SFAS No. 123R ). SFAS No. 123R addresses the
accounting for share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options. Under the new standard, companies will no longer be able to account for share-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic method in accordance with
APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. Instead, companies will be required to account for such transactions using a fair-value method and recognize the expense in the consolidated statement of income. SFAS No. 123R
will be effective for periods beginning after June 15, 2005 and allows, but does not require, companies to restate the full fiscal year of 2005 to reflect the impact of expensing share-based payments under SFAS No. 123R. The Company has
not yet determined which fair-value method and transitional provision it will follow. The adoption of SFAS No. 123R is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position or results of operations. See
Stock-Based Employee Compensation for the pro forma impact on net income and net income per share from calculating stock-based compensation costs under the fair value alternative of SFAS No. 123.      In June 2005, the FASB ratified the consensus in EITF Issue No. 04-5,  Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a
Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights  ( Issue 04-5 ), which provides guidance in determining whether a general partner controls a limited partnership. Issue 04-5 states
that the general partner in a limited partnership is presumed to control that limited partnership. The presumption may be overcome if the limited partners have either (1) the substantive ability to dissolve the limited partnership or otherwise
remove the general partner without cause or (2) substantive participating rights, which provide the limited partners with the ability to effectively participate in  
       
   32   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 significant decisions that would be expected to be made in the ordinary course of the limited partnership s business and thereby preclude the general
partner from exercising unilateral control over the partnership. The adoption of Issue 04-5 by us for new or modified limited partnership arrangements is effective June 30, 2005 and for existing limited partnership arrangements effective
January 1, 2006. We do not expect that we will be required to consolidate our current unconsolidated joint venture investments nor do we expect Issue 04-5 to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.      In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  ( Statement No. 154 ). Statement
No. 154, which replaces APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes  and FASB Statement No. 3,  Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements , changes the requirements for the accounting for and
reporting of a change in accounting principle. The statement requires retrospective application of changes in accounting principle to prior periods  financial statements unless it is impracticable to determine the period-specific effects or the
cumulative effect of the change. Statement No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The adoption of Statement No. 154 is not expected to have a
material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows of IORI.       Real estate held for investment
and depreciation.     Real estate held for investment is carried at cost. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144 ( SFAS No. 144 ) requires that a property be considered impaired, if the sum of
the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount of the property. If impairment exists, an impairment loss is recognized by a charge against earnings equal to the amount by which the
carrying amount of the property exceeds the fair value of the property. If impairment of a property is recognized, the carrying amount of the property is reduced by the amount of the impairment and a new cost for the property is established. Such
new cost is depreciated over the property s remaining useful life. Depreciation is provided by the straight-line method over estimated useful lives, which range from 2 to 40 years.       Revenue recognition on the sale of real estate.     Sales of real estate are recognized when and to the extent permitted by
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 66,  Accounting for Sales of Real Estate  ( SFAS No. 66 ). Until the requirements of SFAS No. 66 for full profit recognition have been met, transactions are accounted
for using either the deposit, the installment sale, the cost recovery or the financing method, whichever is appropriate. See NOTE 2.  REAL ESTATE.        Investment in non-controlled partnerships.     The equity method is used to account for investments in partnerships which IORI does not control. Under the equity method, an initial
investment, recorded at cost, is increased by a proportionate share of the partnership s operating income and any additional advances and decreased by a proportionate share of the partnership s operating losses and distributions received.
      Operating segments.     Management has determined reportable operating segments to be those that are used for
internal reporting purposes which disaggregates operations by type of real estate.       Fair value of financial
instruments.     The following assumptions were used in estimating the fair value of notes receivable and payable. For notes receivable the fair value was estimated by discounting future cash flows using current interest rates
for similar loans. For notes payable, the fair value was estimated using year end interest rates for mortgages with similar terms and maturities.       Cash equivalents.     For purposes of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, all highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less are considered cash equivalents.
        
   33   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Earnings per share.     Income (loss) per share is presented in accordance
with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128  Earnings Per Share.  Income (loss) per share is computed based upon the weighted average number of shares of Common Stock outstanding during each year.       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.     In 2005, the Company adopted the indirect method of presenting the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows. The presentation for prior years has been restated to conform with the indirect method.       

NOTE 2.   
      REAL ESTATE             In 2004, IORI
sold the following properties:       
     Concentration of investment risk.     IORI has a high concentration of
investment risk on properties in the Southwest region of the United States. This risk includes, but is not limited to changes in local economic conditions, changes in real estate and zoning laws, increases in real estate taxes, floods, tornados and
other acts of God and other factors beyond the control of management. In the opinion of management, this investment risk is partially mitigated by the diversification of property types in other geographical regions of the United States,
management s review of additional investments, acquisitions in other areas and by insurance.       

NOTE 3.   
      NOTES AND INTEREST RECEIVABLE              Junior Mortgage Loans.     Junior mortgage loans are loans secured by mortgages that are subordinate to one or more prior liens either on the simple interest fee or a leasehold interest in real estate. Recourse on
the loans ordinarily includes the real estate which secures the loan, other collateral and personal guarantees of the borrower.      On
September 30, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $1,222,500 given by UHF for Unified Housing of Parkside Crossing, LLC to Regis I and the accrued interest receivable of $112,878 were assigned from Regis I to IORI as a pay down of
certain intercompany receivables.      On September 30, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $1,053,616 given by UHF for
Unified Housing of Temple, LLC to Regis I and the accrued interest receivable of $98,338 were assigned from Regis I to IORI as a pay down of certain intercompany receivables.      On September 30, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $835,658 given by UHF for Unified Housing of Terrell, LLC to Regis I and the
accrued interest receivable of $80,223 were assigned from Regis I to IORI as a pay down of certain intercompany receivables.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   On September 30, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $1,770,000 given by UHF for
Housing for Seniors of Lewisville, LLC to Regis I and the accrued interest receivable of $174,640 were assigned from Regis I to IORI as a pay down of certain intercompany receivables.      On May 24, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $2,990,000 given by UHF for UHM to Transcontinental Eldorado, Inc. was assigned from TCI
to IORI as a partial payment for TCI s repurchase of 100% of the outstanding common shares of Treehouse-IR from IORI.      On
December 30, 2003, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $6,363,360 given by Humble to NLP was assigned from ARI to IORI as a pay down of certain intercompany receivables.      On December 30, 2003, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $2,000,000 given by Humble to NLP was assigned from ARI to IORI as additional pay
down of certain intercompany receivables.      On October 14, 2003, IORI purchased, sold, and conveyed an office building known as One
Hickory Centre, and sold 202 acres of unimproved real property known as the Travelers Land in Dallas County, Texas to Encino Executive Plaza, Ltd a wholly-owned affiliate of ARI. The sale price for One Hickory Centre was $12,200,000 and Encino
Executive Plaza, Ltd. executed a wrap-around promissory note in the amount of $11,973,025 payable to the order of IORI secured by a Deed of Trust encumbering One Hickory Centre. The remaining difference was a result of pro-rations and various
expenses paid by IORI in connection with the closing of the transaction. The note bears interest at 5.5% per annum. The sale price for the Travelers Land was $25,000,000. At closing, Encino Executive Plaza, Ltd. executed an all inclusive
wrap-around promissory note payable to the order of IORI in the principal amount of $22,801,987 secured by a Deed of Trust covering the Travelers Land sold and delivered cash to IORI in the amount of $1,946,715. As with the prior transaction, the
difference between the purchase price and the promissory note represented adjustments for various pro-rations. The note bears interest at 5.5% per annum. Subsequently, IORI made a loan to Encino Executive Plaza, Ltd. in the amount of $1,567,232
payable upon demand or if no demand is made prior thereto on June 30, 2006 with a market rate of interest. Encino Executive Plaza, Ltd. executed and delivered a promissory note payable to the order of IORI in the stated principal amount of
$1,567,232. The note bears interest at 5.5% per annum.       

NOTE 4.   
      INVESTMENT IN EQUITY METHOD PARTNERSHIPS             Investments in equity method partnerships consisted of the following:       
    IORI owns a 40% general partner interest in NIA. NIA s only asset is a wraparound mortgage
note receivable secured by a shopping center in Maulden, Missouri. TCI owns the remaining 60% general partner interest in NIA.      IORI also
owns a 10% limited partner interest in Eton Square, which at December 31, 2004, owned the Eton Square Building in Tulsa, Oklahoma. TCI owns a 90% general partner interest in Eton Square.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Set forth below are summarized unaudited financial data for the partnerships accounted for using the
equity method:       
     
    IORI s equity share of:       

NOTE 5.   
      NOTES AND INTEREST PAYABLE             Scheduled notes payable principal payments are due as follows (in thousands):       
    Notes payable at December 31, 2005, bear interest at rates ranging from 4.48% to 9.25% and
mature between 2005 and 2012. The mortgages are collateralized by deeds of trust on real estate with a net carrying value of $30.7 million. See ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS Obligations and Commitments  and ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Liabilities.          
   36   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   In April 2002, the Company transferred all of its residential properties to partnerships formed with
METRA Capital LLC ( METRA ). The properties included the 60-unit Brighton Court, the 92-unit Del Mar, the 68-unit Enclave, the 280-unit Meridian, the 57-unit Signature, and the 114-unit Sinclair, all located in Midland, Texas, and the
106-unit Treehouse located in San Antonio, Texas. Innovo Realty, Inc., a subsidiary of Innovo Group, Inc. ( Innovo ) is a limited partner in the partnerships that purchased the properties. A former director of ARI, a related party,
controlled approximately 11.67% of the outstanding common stock of Innovo. The transfer constituted 23% of the total assets of the Company as of December 31, 2001. The transfer price for the properties totaled $26.2 million, of which the
Company received $5.3 million in cash after the payment of $15.9 million in debt and various closing costs. Management determined to account for the transaction as a refinancing transaction (rather than a sale) in accordance with SFAS 66
 Accounting for Sales of Real Estate.  At the time of the transaction in April 2002, ARI was a related party to the Company by virtue of ARI s subsidiaries  ownership of approximately 28.5% of the then outstanding common stock of
the Company, and the fact that ARI and the Company had the same persons as executive officers. The compensation price for the properties transferred totaled $26.2 million and possible additional contingent consideration depending upon the sale price
of the properties by the METRA partnerships. The Company also received $5.2 million in value of 8% in non-recourse, non-convertible preferred stock of Innovo. Based upon the prospect of additional consideration, ultimate continued involvement
through the preferred stock and the related-party nature of the former ARI director s involvement, as well as the Company retaining a right to approve the price of any ultimate sale by a METRA partnership of the properties, and a process by
which the Company effectively guaranteed a preferential return to the METRA investors, management determined that the transaction should be classified as a financing transaction and not a sale. The Company continued to be able to exert control over
the METRA partnerships, and no sale was recorded. The Treehouse property was subsequently sold to a non-related party in February 2004, and all of its debts have been repaid to the lenders at the time of the sale. During August 2004, certain
entities, including the Company, instituted an action in a Texas state court against Innovo and METRA and others over the process, as well as distribution questions. During April 2005, a resolution of the litigation occurred settling all liabilities
remaining from the original partnership arrangements which included a return of the METRA investor equity, prepayment of prospective asset management fees and miscellaneous fees and transaction costs from the Company and the other plaintiffs as a
payment of the Preferential Return along with the delegation of management to another entity. Of the payment made, the Company recognized expense of $56,000 and a reduction of $1,476,000 in liabilities during the second quarter of 2005.   

NOTE 6.   
      RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS            On
August 22, 2005, IORI purchased 10.08 acres of land, located in Dallas County, from TCI (a related party) for $13 million. The purchase price was paid with cash of $7 million and the conveyance, to the seller, of $6 million in notes receivable
held by IORI. The cash was obtained from financing the land acquired in the transaction.      The agreement includes a put option whereby for
the period of fifteen months after the closing IORI has the right to resell the property to the seller for a price of $13 million plus a preferred return of 9% per annum accruing from the closing date.      Due to the related party nature of the transaction including the likelihood, that IORI will exercise its put option this transaction has been treated as
a financing transaction. IORI continues to carry the $6 million of notes as a receivable and has recorded the $7 million as a receivable from TCI. TCI pays IORI interest in an amount equal to what IORI pays for its loan on the property.   
  On September 30, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $1,222,500 given by UHF for Unified Housing of Parkside Crossing, LLC to Regis
I and the accrued interest receivable of $112,878 were assigned from Regis I to IORI as a pay down in the same amount of certain intercompany receivables due to IORI.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   On September 30, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $1,053,616 given by UHF for
Unified Housing of Temple, LLC to Regis I and the accrued interest receivable of $98,338 were assigned from Regis I to IORI as a pay down in the same amount of certain intercompany receivables due to IORI.      On September 30, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $835,658 given by UHF for Unified Housing of Terrell, LLC to Regis I and the
accrued interest receivable of $80,223 were assigned from Regis I to IORI as a pay down in the same amount of certain intercompany receivables due to IORI.      On September 30, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $1,770,000 given by UHF for Housing for Seniors of Lewisville, LLC to Regis I and the accrued interest receivable of $174,640 were assigned from
Regis I to IORI as a pay down in the same amount of certain intercompany receivables due to IORI.      On May 24, 2004, a Secured
Promissory Note in the amount of $2,990,000 given by UHF for UHM to Transcontinental Eldorado, Inc. was assigned from TCI to IORI as a partial payment for TCI s repurchase of 100% of the outstanding common shares of Treehouse-IR from IORI.
     On September 19, 2002, IORI s Board of Directors authorized the Chief Financial Officer of the Company to advance funds either
to or from the Company, through the advisor, in an amount up to $5.0 million on the condition that such advances shall be repaid in cash or transfers of assets within 90 days. Effective July 1, 2005 the advisor and the Company agreed that
interest would be paid or received on any outstanding balances. The interest rate is the prime rate plus 1% determined as of the first day of each calendar quarter. For 2005, IORI received $36,000 in interest.      The following table reconciles the beginning and ending balances of Accounts Receivable from Affiliates as of December 31, 2005.       

NOTE 7.   
      DIVIDENDS             While IORI was a
REIT, dividends of $685,000 ($.45 per share) were paid in 2000. The Company reported to the Internal Revenue Service that 100% of the dividends paid in 2000 represented capital gains.      In December 2000, the Board of Directors determined not to pay a fourth quarter dividend to holders of IORI s Common Stock. The non-payment decision
was based on the Board determining that IORI needed to retain cash for acquisitions that were anticipated in 2001 and that IORI had no REIT taxable income that required a distribution.      No quarterly dividends were declared or paid since 2000. Management expects to pay no cash dividends in 2006.         
   38   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

NOTE 8.   
      RENTAL INCOME UNDER OPERATING LEASES             Operations include the leasing of office buildings. The leases thereon expire at various dates through 2012. The following is a schedule of minimum future rental income on non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2005 (in
thousands):       

NOTE 9.   
      ADVISORY AGREEMENT             SWI is
100% owned by Gene E. Phillips. Mr. Phillips is Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director of SWI, and is involved in daily consultation with the officers of SWI and has significant influence over the conduct of SWI s
business, including the rendering of advisory services and the making of investment decisions for itself and for IORI.      Under the Advisory
Agreement, SWI is required to annually formulate and submit for Board approval a budget and business plan containing a twelve-month forecast of operations and cash flow, a general plan for asset sales and purchases, borrowing activity and other
investments. SWI is required to report quarterly to the Board on IORI s performance against the business plan. In addition, all transactions require prior Board approval, unless they are explicitly provided for in the approved business plan or
are made pursuant to authority expressly delegated to SWI by the Board.      The Advisory Agreement also requires prior Board approval for the
retention of all consultants and third party professionals other than legal counsel. The Advisory Agreement provides that SWI shall be deemed to be in a fiduciary relationship to the stockholders and contains a broad standard governing SWI s
liability for losses incurred by IORI.      The Advisory Agreement provides for SWI to be responsible for IORI s day-to-day operations and
to receive an advisory fee comprised of a gross asset fee of .0625% per month (.75% per annum) of the average of the gross asset value (total assets less allowance for amortization, depreciation or depletion and valuation reserves) and an
annual net income fee equal to 7.5% per annum of net income.      The Advisory Agreement also provides for SWI to receive an annual
incentive sales fee. SWI or an affiliate of SWI is to receive an acquisition commission for supervising the purchase or long-term lease of real estate. SWI or an affiliate of SWI is to receive a mortgage or loan acquisition fee with respect to the
purchase of any existing mortgage loan. SWI or an affiliate of SWI also is to receive a mortgage brokerage and equity refinancing fee for obtaining loans or refinancing of IORI s properties. In addition, SWI receives reimbursement of certain
expenses incurred by it, in the performance of advisory services for IORI.      The Advisory Agreement requires SWI or any affiliate of SWI to
pay to IORI one-half of any compensation received from third parties with respect to the origination, placement or brokerage of any loan made by IORI.      Under the Advisory Agreement all or a portion of the annual advisory fee must be refunded by SWI if the Operating Expenses of IORI (as defined in the Advisory Agreement) exceed certain limits specified in the Advisory
Agreement. The effect of this limitation was to require SWI to refund $-0- of the 2005 and 2004 annual advisory fee, and $227,000 of the 2003 annual advisory fee.         
   39   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Additionally, if management was to request that SWI render services other than those required by the
Advisory Agreement, SWI or an affiliate of BCM would be separately compensated for such additional services on terms to be agreed upon from time to time. As discussed in NOTE 10.  PROPERTY MANAGEMENT,  Triad Realty Services, Ltd., an
affiliate of PIAMI, provides property management services and, as discussed in NOTE 11.  REAL ESTATE BROKERAGE,  Regis Realty I, LLC., provided, on a non-exclusive basis, brokerage services.      SWI may assign the Advisory Agreement only with the prior consent of IORI.      Effective July 1, 2005, the Company and SWI entered into a Cash Management Agreement to further define the administration of the Company s day-to-day investment operations, relationship contacts, flow of
funds and deposit and borrowing of funds. Under the Cash Management Agreement, all funds of the Company are delivered to SWI which has a deposit liability to the Company and is responsible for investment of all excess funds which earn interest at
the  Wall Street Journal  Prime Rate plus 1% per annum, set quarterly on the first day of each calendar quarter. Borrowings for the benefit of the Company bear the same interest rate. The term of the Cash Management Agreement is
coterminous with the Advisory Agreement, and it is automatically renewed each year unless terminated with the Advisory Agreement.       

NOTE 10.       
        PROPERTY MANAGEMENT             Triad provides property management services for a fee of 6% or less of the monthly gross rents collected on residential properties and 3% or less of the monthly gross rents collected on commercial properties under its management. Triad
subcontracts with other entities for property-level management services at various rates. The general partner of Triad is PIAMI. The limited partner of Triad is Highland. Triad subcontracted to Regis, which is owned by Highland, the property-level
management and leasing of IORI s three office buildings and the commercial property owned by Eton Square, until December 2002. Since January 1, 2003, Regis I, which is also owned by Highland, provided property management services. Regis
was and Regis I is entitled to receive property and construction management fees and leasing commissions in accordance with the terms of its property-level management agreement with Triad.       

NOTE 11.       REAL    
    ESTATE BROKERAGE             Regis also
provided brokerage services on a non-exclusive basis until December 2002. Regis was and Regis I is entitled to receive a commission for property purchases and sales in accordance with a sliding scale of total brokerage fees to be paid by IORI.

NOTE 12.       
        ADVISORY FEES, PROPERTY MANAGEMENT FEES, ETC.             Fees and cost reimbursements to SWI/BCM and affiliates:       
       
   40   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

    IORI had net income for
federal income tax purposes for 2005, and net income before the application of operating loss carry forwards in 2004 and 2003. Due to alternative minimum tax credit carry forwards in 2005, and due to net operating loss carry forwards in 2004 and
2003, IORI recorded no provision for income taxes. IORI s tax basis in its net assets differs from the amount at which its net assets are reported for financial statement purposes, principally due to the accounting for gains and losses on
property sales, and depreciation on owned properties.      Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effects of temporary timing differences
between carrying amounts of assets and liabilities reflected on the financial statements and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The tax effects of temporary differences and net operating loss carry forwards that give rise to the deferred tax
assets are presented below:       
    Recognition of the benefits of deferred tax assets will require the Company to generate future
taxable income. There is no assurance that the Company will generate earnings in future years. Therefore, the Company has established a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of approximately $755,000 and $2,555,000 as of December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively.      In 2005, the net operating loss carry forwards were used in full. The resulting income tax was offset by
alternative minimum tax credit carry forwards generated in prior years. The remaining amount of tax credit carry forwards after 2005 is approximately $200,000. The credit has no expiration date.      The following table presents the principal reasons for the differences between the Company s effective tax rate and the United States statutory
income tax rate of 35%.       
       
   41   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

NOTE 14.       OPERATING    
    SEGMENTS             Significant differences
among the accounting policies of the operating segments as compared to the Consolidated Financial Statements principally involve the calculation and allocation of general and administrative expenses. Management evaluates the performance of the
operating segments and allocates resources to each of them based on their operating income and cash flow. Items of income that are not reflected in the segments are interest and equity in partnerships totaling $3.9 million, $3.3 million, $2.2
million for 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Expenses/(Gains) that are not reflected in the segments are general and administrative expenses, advisory and net income fees, provision for loss, and provision for asset impairment totaling $1.5
million, $1.8 million, and $2.2 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Excluded from operating segment assets are assets of $68.6 million at December 31, 2005, $59.3 million at December 31, 2004, and $50.8 million at
December 31, 2003, which are not identifiable with an operating segment. There are no intersegment revenues and expenses and all business is conducted in the United States.      Presented below is the operating income of each operating segment.       
       
   42   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

     NOTE 15.       DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS           Effective January 1, 2002, IORI adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets,  which established a single accounting model for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets, including discontinued operations. This statement requires that the operations related to properties that have been sold or
properties that are intended to be sold be presented as discontinued operations in the statement of operations for all periods presented, and properties intended to be sold are to be designated as  held-for-sale  on the balance sheet.
     For 2004 and 2003, income (loss) from discontinued operations relates to four properties that IORI sold during 2003, and five properties
sold during 2004. The following table summarizes revenue and expense information for these properties sold.       
    There were no properties sold in 2005.         
   43   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    NOTE 16.         QUARTERLY DATA            The following is a tabulation of quarterly results of operations for the years 2005, 2004, and 2003 (unaudited).       
       
   44   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   In the first quarter of 2004, the Treehouse (San Antonio) Building was sold and $3.1 million gain on
sale was recognized. In the second quarter of 2004, Treehouse (Irving) Building was sold and $150,000 deferred gain on sale was recognized. In the third quarter of 2004, Akard Building was sold and $427,000 gain on sale was recognized. In the fourth
quarter of 2004, Frankel Land and Yeager Building were sold. $16,000 gain was recognized on the sale of Frankel Land, and $1.9 million gain was recognized on the sale of Yeager Building.       NOTE 17.       COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND LIQUIDITY            Potential
Acquisition       In August 2005 the Company entered into a contract to purchase two commercial buildings located in Texas for a total
purchase price of approximately $13,500,000. The buildings are approximately 80,000 square feet each and the contract required the purchase of both buildings. The acquisition is contingent on the Company s obtaining financing for the
acquisition. There is no certainty that the required financing will be obtained.       Litigation       The Company and its subsidiaries, from time to time, have been involved in various items of litigation incidental to and in the ordinary course of its
business and, in the opinion of Management, the outcome of such litigation will not have a material adverse impact upon the Company s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.       Liquidity       Management anticipates that IORI will
generate excess cash from operations in 2006 due to increased rental rates and occupancy at its properties, however, such excess may not be sufficient to discharge all of IORI s debt obligations as they mature. Management intends to selectively
sell income producing assets, refinance real estate and/or incur additional borrowings against real estate to meet its cash requirements.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SCHEDULE III        INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION        December 31, 2005        
       
   46   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    SCHEDULE III        (Continued)        INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION        
       
   47   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SCHEDULE IV        INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        MORTGAGE LOANS AND ACCRUED INTEREST        DUE ON REAL ESTATE        
       
   48   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

ITEM 9.   
      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE            None. During 2004, a change in accountants occurred as previously reported from Farmer, Fuqua   Huff, P.C. to Swalm   Associates, P.C.,
and no disagreement existed between the Company and Farmer, Fuqua   Huff, P.C. concerning any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure or auditing scope or procedure.       
  ITEM 9A.       CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES          The Company s internal
control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles in the United States of America ( GAAP ). Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls, material
misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, even internal controls determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and represented within the time periods required. Furthermore, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that such controls may become
inadequate due to changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.       Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures       Management, under the supervision and with the participation of the acting Principal Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2005. Based upon that most recent evaluation, which was completed as of the end of the period covered by this Form
10-K, the acting Principal Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at December 31, 2005 to ensure that information required to be disclosed in
reports that the Company files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time period specified in Securities and Exchange Commission Rules and Forms.       Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       There have been no changes in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2005, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       
  ITEM 9B.       OTHER INFORMATION          Not applicable.         
   49   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

PART III        
  ITEM 10.       DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT          The affairs of the Company are managed by a Board of Directors. The Directors are elected at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders or are appointed by the incumbent Board of Directors and serve until the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or
until a successor has been duly-elected or appointed.      It is the Board s objective that a majority of the Board consist of independent
directors. For a director to be considered independent, the Board must determine that the director does not have any direct or indirect material relationship with the Company. The Board has establish guidelines to assist it in determining director
independence which conform to, or are more exacting than, independence requirements of the American Stock Exchange listing rules. The independence guidelines are set forth in the Company s  Corporate Governance Guidelines.  The text
of this document has been posted on the Company s internet website at  www.incomeopp-realty.com  and is available in print to any stockholder who requests it. In addition to applying these guidelines, the Board will consider all relevant
facts and circumstances in making an independence determination.      The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct that applies to all directors,
officers and employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. Stockholders may find our Code of Conduct on our website by going to our website address at
 www.incomeopp-realty.com . We will post any amendments to the Code of Conduct as well as any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of the SEC or the AMEX on our website.      Our Board of Directors has adopted charters for our Audit, Compensation and Governance and Nominating Committees of the Board of Directors. Stockholders
may find these documents on our website by going to the website address at  www.incomeopp  -realty.com . You may also obtain a printed copy of these materials by contacting us at the following address:      Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc.      Attn: Investor Relations      1800 Valley View Lane, Suite 300      Dallas, Texas 75234      Telephone: 469-522-4200      All members of the Audit Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee must be independent directors. Members of the Audit Committee
must also satisfy additional independence requirements, which provide (i) that they may not accept, directly or indirectly, any consulting, advisory or compensatory fee from the Company or any of its subsidiaries other than their
director s compensation (other than in their capacity as a member of the Audit Committee, the Board of Directors or any other committee of the Board), and (ii) no member of the Audit Committee may be an  affiliated person  of the
Company or any of its subsidiaries as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission rules.      After December 31, 2003, a number of
changes occurred in the composition of the Board of Directors of the Company, the creation of the Board Committees, the adoption of Committee charters, the adoption of a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers and the adoption of Guidelines for
Director Independence. Also, the composition of the members of the Board of Directors changed with the resignations of Henry A. Butler (July 1, 2003), Earl D. Cecil (February 29, 2004) and Martin L. White (March 15, 2004), as well as the election of
Ken L. Joines as a director in July 2003, and independent directors David E. Allard and Peter L. Larsen on February 20, 2004, and Robert A. Jakuszewski on March 16, 2004. Additionally, on June 2, 2003, BCM sold a total of 781,773
shares of Common Stock of the Company (approximately 54.3% of the outstanding) as a  block  to SWI. SWI also purchased 12,600 shares of Common Stock of the Company in open-market purchase transactions, which increased SWI s ownership
to 794,223 shares (approximately 57.17% of the outstanding  
       
   50   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

shares). On June 30, 2003, SWI replaced BCM as the contractual advisor to the Company. On June 10, 2005, the Company s Common Stock was the
subject of a 3-for-1 forward split of the stock, which increased SWI s ownership to 2,382,669 shares.       Directors       The current directors of the Company are listed below, together with their ages, terms of service, all positions and offices with the Company, its former
advisor (BCM), or current advisor (SWI), which took over as the contractual advisor from BCM on June 30, 2003, their principal occupations, business experience and directorships with other companies during the last five years or more. The
designation  affiliated,  when used below with respect to a director, means that the director is an officer, director or employee of SWI, BCM, PIAMI, or an officer of the Company or an officer or director of an affiliate of the Company.
The designation  independent,  when used below with respect to a director, means that the director is neither an officer of the Company, nor a director, officer or employee of BCM or PIAMI or Prime or SWI (but may be a director of the
Company), although the Company may have certain business or professional relationships with such director as discussed in ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Certain Business Relationships.       David E. Allard, 47       Chief Financial Officer (since February 2005) of Digital Witness Surveillance, a Dallas, Texas-based development stage software provider; Executive Vice President and Secretary (April 2003 to February 2, 2005) of Internet America, Inc.
Mr. Allard was Chief Operating Officer (2000-2002) of Primedia Workplace Learning, a workplace training business; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (1999-2000) of E-Train, Inc., a provider of online job training and seminars;
Special Advisor (1998-1999) of Thayer Capital Partners; Chief Operating Officer (1997-1998) of Career Track, Inc. (a TCI subsidiary); Senior Vice President and Vice President Business Development (1992-1996) of Westcott Communications, Inc.;
Partner (1985-1992) of Farmer and Allard, P.C. (a CPA firm); Audit Manager/CPA (1983-1985) of Grant Thornton LLP (a CPA firm). Mr. Allard has been a director of the Company since February 20, 2004.       Robert A. Jakuszewski, 43       Vice President Sales and Marketing (since September 1998) of New Horizons Communications, Inc. Mr. Jakuszewski was a Consultant (January 1998 to September 1998) for New Horizon Communications, Inc.; Regional Sales Manager
(1996-1998) of Continental Funding; Territory Manager (1992-1996) of Sigvaris, Inc.; Senior Sales Representative (1988-1992) of Mead Johnson Nutritional Division, USPNG; Sales Representative (1986-1987) of Muro Pharmaceutical, Inc.
Mr. Jakuszewski was elected a director of the Company on March 16, 2004. He was also elected as a director of ARI on November 22, 2005, and a director of TCI on November 22, 2005.       Ken L. Joines, 38 (Affiliated)       Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (July 15, 2004 to September 16, 2004) of the Company; Director, Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer (since March 2001) of SWI, an administrative services
company and the advisor to the Company; Owner/Operator (since September 1998) of Joines   Associates (a financial consulting company, subcontractor of Whitson Management Group); Financial Consultant (1996-1998) of Whitson Financial/Whitson
Management Group. Mr. Joines has been a director of the Company since July 2003.       Peter L. Larsen, 63       Mr. Larsen has been involved in the commercial real estate industry since 1972. From 1996 through 2002, he was Senior Vice President
of Acquisitions of Tarragon Corporation (formerly Tarragon Realty Investors, Inc.), and its predecessors, a publicly-held real estate entity, the common stock of which is traded on the NASDAQ National Market. Since 1992, Mr. Larsen has also
been a director of four Texas non-profit  
       
   51   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

corporations which own 545 apartment units and are overseeing the development of a multi-million dollar retirement center in Coppell, Texas. Mr. Larsen
has been a director of the Company since February 20, 2004, and the Presiding Director since March 2004.       Ted P. Stokely, 72
(Affiliated)       Chairman of the Board of the Company (since January 1995). Mr. Stokely is General Manager (since
January 1995) of ECF Senior Housing Corporation, a non-profit corporation; General Manager (since January 1993) of Housing Assistance Foundation, Inc., a non-profit corporation; part-time unpaid Consultant (since January 1993) of Eldercare Housing
Foundation, a non-profit corporation; General Manager (since April 2002) of Unified Housing Foundation, Inc., a non-profit corporation; Director and Chairman of the Board of ARI (since November 2002); and Director (since April 1990) and Chairman of
the Board (since January 1995) of TCI. Mr. Stokely has been a director of the Company since April 1990.       Board Meetings and Committees
      The Board of Directors held 14 meetings during 2005. For such year, no incumbent director attended few than 75% of the aggregate of
(i) the total number of meetings held by Board during the period for which he had been a director, and (ii) the total number of meetings held by all Committees of the Board on which he served during the periods that he served. Under the
Company s Corporate Governance Guidelines, each director is expected to dedicate sufficient time, energy and attention to ensure the diligent performance of his or her duties, including by attending meetings of the stockholders of the Company,
the Board and Committees of which he is a member.      The Board of Directors had standing Audit, Compensation and Governance and Nominating
Committees.        Audit Committee.      The current Audit Committee was formed on February 20, 2004, and
its function is to review the Company s operating and accounting procedures. A Charter of the Audit Committee has also been adopted by the Board. The Audit Committee is an  audit committee  for purposes of Section 3(a)(58) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The current members of the Audit Committee, all of whom are independent within the meaning of the SEC Regulations, the listing standards of the AMEX and the Company s Corporate Governance Guidelines, are Messrs.
Allard (Chairman), Larsen and Jakuszewski. Mr. David Allard, a member and the Chairman of the Committee, is qualified as an  audit committee financial expert  within the meaning of SEC Regulations, and the Board has determined that he
has accounting and related financial management expertise within the meaning of the listing standards of the AMEX. All members of the Audit Committee meet the experience requirements of the listing standards of the AMEX. The Charter of the Audit
Committee was adopted on March 22, 2004, and is available on the Company s Investor Relations Website ( www.incomeopp  -realty.com ). The Audit Committee met 10 times in 2005.        Governance and Nominating Committee.      The Governance and Nominating Committee is responsible for developing and
implementing policies and practices relating to corporate governance, including reviewing and monitoring implementation of the Company s  Corporate Governance Guidelines . In addition, the Committee develops and reviews background
information on candidates for the Board and makes recommendations to the Board regarding such candidates. The Committee also prepares and supervises the Board s annual review of director independence and the Board s performance
self-evaluation. The charter of the Governance and Nominating Committee was adopted on March 22, 2004, and is available on the Company s Investor Relations website ( www.incomeopp  -realty.com ). On March 22, 2004, the Board
selected the members of the Governance and Nominating Committee for 2004. The Board reappointed the members of the Governance and Nominating Committee on September 16, 2004, and again on December 15, 2005. All of the members of the
Committee are independent within the meaning of the listing standards of the American Stock Exchange and the Company s  Corporate Governance Guidelines.  The Governance and Nominating Committee met two times in 2005.        Compensation Committee   .     The Compensation Committee is responsible for overseeing the policies of the Company
relating to compensation to be paid by the Company to the Company s principal executive officer and  
       
   52   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

any other officers designated by the Board and to make recommendations to the Board with respect to such policies, produce necessary reports on executive
compensation for inclusion in the Company s proxy statement in accordance with applicable rules and regulations and to monitor the development and implementation of succession plans for the principal executive officer and other key executives
and make recommendations to the Board with respect to such plans. The charter of the Compensation Committee was adopted on March 22, 2004, and is available on the Company s Investor Relations website ( www.incomeopp-realty.com ). On
March 22, 2004, the Board selected the members of the Compensation Committee for the coming year. The Board reappointed the members of the Compensation Committee on September 16, 2004, and again on December 15, 2005. All of the
members of the Committee are independent within the meaning of the listing standards of the American Stock Exchange and the Company s  Corporate Governance Guidelines . The Compensation Committee is to be comprised of at least two
directors who are independent of management and the Company. The Compensation Committee met one time in 2005.      The members of the Board of
Directors (all of whom were elected by the stockholders at the last Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on December 15, 2005) on the date of this report and the Committees of the Board on which they serve, are identified below:       

Audit Committee   
      
   Compensation Committee   
      
     Governance and       Nominating Committee     
 
    Ted P. Stokely, Chairman and Ex Officio member of all committees   

David E. Allard   
      
  Chair  

Robert A. Jakuszewski   

Ken L. Joines   

Peter L. Larsen   

Chair  
      
  Chair   
    The Company s Compensation Committee is made up of non-employee directors who have neither
served as officers of, nor been employed by the Company. None of the Company s executive officers serve on a board of directors of any entity that has a director or officer serving on this Committee.       Presiding Director       In March 2004, the Board created
a new position of presiding director, whose primary responsibility is to preside over periodic executive sessions of the Board in which management directors and other members of management do not participate. The presiding director also advises the
Chairman of the Board and, as appropriate, Committee chairs with respect to agendas and information needs relating to Board and Committee meetings, provides advice with respect to the selection of Committee chairs and performs other duties that the
Board may from time to time delegate to assist the Board in the fulfillment of its responsibilities.      Director Peter L. Larsen has served
in such position since March 2004. In December 2005, the non-management members of the Board of Directors designated him to serve in this position until the Company s Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held following the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2005.       Determination of Directors Independence       In February 2004, the Board enhanced its  Corporate Governance Guidelines.  The  Guidelines  adopted by the Board meet or exceed the new listing standards adopted during the year by the American Stock
Exchange. The full text of the  Guidelines  can be found in the Investor Relations section of the Company s website ( www.incomeopp-realty.com ). A copy may also be obtained upon request from the Company s Corporate Secretary.
     Pursuant to the  Guidelines,  the Board undertook its annual review of director independence in March 2005. During this review, the
Board considered transactions and relationships between each director or any member of  
       
   53   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

his or her immediate family and the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those reported under   Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions   below. The Board also examined transactions and relationships between directors or their affiliates and members of the Company s senior management or their affiliates. As provided in the  Guidelines , the purpose of
this review was to determine whether any such relationships or transactions were inconsistent with a determination that the director is independent.      As a result of this review, the Board affirmatively determined of the then directors, Messrs. Allard, Jakuszewski and Larsen are each independent of the Company and its management under the standards set forth in the
 Corporate Governance Guidelines .       Executive Officers       Executive officers of the Company are Steven A. Abney, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, James Canon, Executive Vice President-Multi-Family Construction, and Louis J. Corna, Executive Vice
President-General Counsel/Tax Counsel and Secretary. Messrs. Abney Canon, and Corna are employed by Prime. None of the executive officers receive any direct remuneration from the Company, nor do any hold any options granted by the Company. Their
positions with the Company are not subject to a vote of stockholders. The ages, terms of service and all positions and offices with the Company, Prime, BCM, SWI, other affiliated entities, other principal occupations, business experience and
directorships with other publicly-held companies during the last five years or more are set forth below.       Steven A. Abney, 50
      Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (since December 2005) of the Company and (since September 2005) of
ARI and TCI. Mr. Abney was Vice President Finance and Chief Accounting Officer/Principal Financial Officer (November 2001 to February 2005) of and was employed (November 2001 to August 2005) by CRT Properties, Inc. (f/k/a Koger Equity,
Inc.), a Boca Raton, Florida based real estate enterprise which had securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange until September 27, 2005. For more than four years prior thereto, Mr. Abney was the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Konover and Associates, Inc., a privately-held real estate developer based in Farmington, Connecticut. Mr. Abney has been a Certified Public Accountant since 1980.       James D. Canon, III, 44       Executive Vice President Multi-Family Construction (effective April 1, 2006) of the Company, TCI, ARI and Prime. Managing Director (June 2003 to March 2006) of Tarragon Corporation, a New York City-based real estate homebuilder
and developer which has securities listed on the NASDAQ National Market System. Prior thereto (from November 2000 to March 2003), he was Vice President of Southwest Housing Management, Inc., a Dallas, Texas-based real estate company and, prior
thereto and for more than five years, Senior Vice President (February 1992 to October 2000) of BCM.       Louis J. Corna, 58    
  Executive Vice President, General Counsel/Tax Counsel and Secretary (since February 2004), Executive Vice President (October 2001 to
February 2004), Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (June 2001 to October 2001) and Senior Vice PresidentBTax (December 2000 to June 2001) of the Company, TCI, ARL and BCM; Executive Vice President, General Counsel/Tax Counsel and
Secretary (since February 2004), Executive Vice PresidentBTax (July 2003 to February 2004) of PIAMI; Private Attorney (January 2000 to December 2000); Vice President Taxes and Assistant Treasurer (March 1998 to January 2000) of IMC Global,
Inc.; Vice President Taxes (July 1991 to February 1998) of Whitman Corporation.      Mark W. Branigan, 51, Executive Vice
President Multi-Family Construction (since September 2004) resigned effective March 31, 2006 to pursue other opportunities. He was Executive Vice President   
       
   54   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

Residential (June 2001 to September 2004), Director (September 2000 to June 2001) and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (August 2000 to
June 2001) of ARI, TCI, IORI and BCM. Prior thereto, he was Executive Vice President Multi-Family Construction (September 2004 to March 31, 2006) and Executive Vice President Residential (July 2003 to September 2004) of Prime and
PIAMI; Vice President Director of Construction (August 1999 to August 2000) and for more than five years prior thereto, Executive Vice President Residential Asset Management of BCM, TCI and IORI.      In addition to the foregoing executive officers, the Company has several vice presidents and assistant secretaries who are not listed herein.   
   Code of Ethics       The Company has adopted a Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all directors, officers and employees (including those of the Contractual Advisor). In addition, the Company has adopted a code of ethics entitled  Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers 
that applies to the principal executive officer, president, principal financial officer, chief financial officer, the principal accounting officer and Controller. The text of both documents is available on the Company s Investor Relations
website ( www.incomeopp-realty.com ). The Company intends to post amendments to or waivers from its Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers (to the extent applicable to the Company s principal executive officer, principal financial
officer or principal accounting officer) at this location on its website.       Compliance With Section 16(a) of Reporting Requirements    
  Section 16(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires the Company s directors, executive officers and any persons holding 10% or
more of the Company s shares of Common Stock are required to report their ownership of the Company s shares of Common Stock and any changes in that ownership to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) on
specified report forms. Specific due dates for these reports have been established, and the Company is required to report any failure to file by these dates during each fiscal year. All of these filing requirements were satisfied by the
Company s directors and executive officers and holders of more than 10% of the Company s Common Stock during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. In making these statements, the Company has relied upon the written representations
of its directors and executive officers and the holders of 10% or more of the Company s Common Stock and copies of the reports that each has filed with the Commission.       The Advisor       Although the Board of Directors is directly responsible for managing the affairs of the
Company and for setting the policies which guide it, day-to-day operations are performed by a contractual advisor under the supervision of the Board of Directors. The duties of the advisor include, among other things, locating, investigating,
evaluating and recommending real estate and mortgage note investment and sales opportunities, as well as financing and refinancing sources. The advisor also serves as a consultant to the Board of Directors in connection with the business plan and
investment decisions made by the Board.      SWI has served as the Company s advisor since June 30, 2003. From 1989 to June 30,
2003 BCM had served as the advisor to the Company and its predecessors. SWI is 100% owned by Gene E. Phillips. Mr. Phillips is Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of SWI, is involved in daily consultation with the
officers of SWI and has significant influence over the conduct of SWI s business, including the rendering of advisory services and the making of investment decisions for itself and the Company. Mr. Joines, a director of the Company since
July 2003, is an officer and a director of SWI.      Under the Advisory Agreement, SWI is required to annually formulate and submit for Board
approval a budget and business plan containing a twelve-month forecast of operations and cash flow, a general plan for asset  
       
   55   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

sales and purchases, borrowing activity and other investments. SWI is required to report quarterly to the Board on the Company s performance against the
business plan. In addition, all transactions require prior Board approval, unless they are explicitly provided for in the approved plan or are made pursuant to authority expressly delegated to SWI by the Board.      The Advisory Agreement also requires prior approval of the Board for the retention of all consultants and third party professionals, other than legal
counsel. The Advisory Agreement provides that SWI shall be deemed to be in a fiduciary relationship to the stockholders; contains a broad standard governing SWI s liability for losses by the Company; and contains guidelines for SWI s
allocation of investment opportunities among itself, the Company and other entities it advises.      The Advisory Agreement provides that SWI
be responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Company and to receive an advisory fee comprised of a gross asset fee of 0.0625% per month (0.75% per annum) of the average of the gross asset value (total assets less allowance for
amortization, depreciation or depletion and valuation reserves) and an annual net income fee equal to 7.5% of the Company s net income.      The Advisory Agreement also provides for SWI to receive an annual incentive sales fee equal to 10% of the amount, if any, by which the aggregate sales consideration for all real estate sold by the Company during the fiscal year exceeds the
sum of (1) the cost of each property as originally recorded in the Company s books for tax purposes (without deduction for depreciation, amortization or reserve for losses), (2) capital improvements made to such assets during the
period owned, and (3) all closing costs (including real estate commissions) incurred in the sale of such real estate. However, no incentive fee shall be paid unless (a) such real estate sold in such fiscal year, in the aggregate, has
produced an 8% simple annual return on the net investment, including capital improvements, calculated over the holding period before depreciation and inclusive of operating income and sales consideration, and (b) the aggregate net operating
income from all real estate owned for each of the prior and current fiscal years shall be at least 5% higher in the current fiscal year than in the prior fiscal year.      Additionally, pursuant to the Advisory Agreement, SWI or an affiliate of SWI is to receive an acquisition commission for supervising the acquisition, purchase or long-term lease of real estate equal to the lesser of
(i) up to 1% of the cost of acquisition, inclusive of commissions, if any, paid to non-affiliated brokers, or (ii) the compensation customarily charged in arm s-length transactions by others rendering similar property acquisition
services as an ongoing public activity in the same geographical location and for comparable property, provided that the aggregate purchase price of each property (including acquisition fees and real estate brokerage commissions) may not exceed such
property s appraised value at acquisition.      The Advisory Agreement requires SWI or any affiliate of SWI to pay the Company half of any
compensation received from third parties with respect to the origination, placement or brokerage of any loan made by the Company. However, the compensation retained by SWI or any affiliate of SWI shall not exceed the lesser of (i) 2% of the
amount of the loan commitment, or (ii) a loan brokerage and commitment fee which is reasonable and fair under the circumstances.      The
Advisory Agreement also provides that SWI or an affiliate of SWI is to receive a mortgage or loan acquisition fee with respect to the purchase of any existing mortgage loan equal to the lesser of (i) 1% of the amount of the loan purchased, or
(ii) a brokerage or commitment fee which is reasonable and fair under the circumstances. Such fee will not be paid in connection with the origination or funding of any mortgage loan by the Company.      Under the Advisory Agreement, SWI or an affiliate of SWI also is to receive a mortgage brokerage and equity refinancing fee for obtaining loans or
refinancing on properties equal to the lesser of (i) 1% of the amount of the loan or the amount refinanced, or (ii) a brokerage or refinancing fee which is reasonable and fair under the circumstances. However, no such fee shall be paid on
loans from SWI or an affiliate of SWI without the approval of the Board of Directors. No fee shall be paid on loan extensions.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   The Advisory Agreement also provides for all activities in connection with or related to construction for
the Company and its subsidiaries, SWI shall receive a fee equal to 6% of the so-called  hard costs  only of any costs of construction on a completed basis, based upon amounts set forth as approved on any architect certificate issued in
connection with such construction, which fee is payable at such time as the applicable architect certifies other costs for payment to third parties. The phrase  hard costs  means all actual costs of construction paid to contractors,
subcontractors and third parties for materials or labor performed as a part of the construction but does not include items generally regarded as  soft costs  which are consulting fees, attorneys  fees, architectural fees, permit fees
and fees of other professionals.      Under the Advisory Agreement, SWI is to receive reimbursement of certain expenses incurred by it in the
performance of advisory services to the Company.      Under the Advisory Agreement, all or a portion of the annual advisory fee must be
refunded by SWI if the Operating Expenses of the Company (as defined in the Advisory Agreement) exceed certain limits specified in the Advisory Agreement based on the book value, net asset value and net income of the Company during the fiscal year.
SWI was required to refund $226,000 of the 2003 advisory fee under this provision.      Additionally, if management were to request that SWI
render services other than those required by the Advisory Agreement, SWI or an affiliate of SWI is separately compensated for such additional services on terms to be agreed upon from time to time. As discussed below, under Property Management, the
Company has hired Triad Realty Services, Ltd. ( Triad ), an affiliate of Prime, to provide management for the Company s properties and, as discussed below, under  Real Estate Brokerage , the Company has engaged Regis Realty
I LLC ( Regis I ), a related party, on a non-exclusive basis to provide brokerage services for the Company. SWI may assign the Advisory Agreement only with the prior consent of the Company.      Effective July 1, 2005, the Company and SWI entered into a Cash Management Agreement to further define the administration of the Company s
day-to-day investment operations, relationship contacts, flow of funds and deposit and borrowing of funds. Under the Cash Management Agreement, all funds of the Company are delivered to SWI which has a deposit liability to the Company and is
responsible for investment of all excess funds which earn interest at the  Wall Street Journal  Prime Rate plus 1% per annum, set quarterly on the first day of each calendar quarter. Borrowings for the benefit of the Company bear the same
interest rate. The term of the Cash Management Agreement is coterminous with the Advisory Agreement, and it is automatically renewed each year unless terminated with the Advisory Agreement.      The directors and principal officers of SWI are set forth below:       

Name    
      
     Officer(s)     
 
    Gene E. Phillips   
      
  Director, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   
 
    Ken L. Joines   
      
  Director, Vice President, Treasurer and Secretary   
     Property Management       Since February 1, 1990, affiliates of BCM have provided property management services. Currently, Triad provides such property management services for a fee of 6% or less of the monthly gross rents collected on
residential properties and 3% or less of the monthly gross rents collected on commercial properties under its management. Triad subcontracts with other entities for the provision of the property-level management services to the Company at various
rates. The general partner of Triad is PIAMI. The limited partner of Triad is Highland, a related party. Triad subcontracts the property-level management and leasing of five of the Company s commercial properties to Regis I, a related party,
which is a company owned by Highland. Regis I also received property and construction management fees and leasing commissions in accordance with its property-level management agreement with Triad.         
   57   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Real Estate Brokerage       Since January 1, 2003, Regis I provided real estate brokerage services to the Company (on a non-exclusive basis). Regis I is entitled to receive a real estate commission for property purchases and sales in
accordance with a sliding scale of total fees to be paid (i) maximum fee of 4.5% on the first $2 million of any purchase or sale transaction of which no more than 3.5% would be paid to Regis I or affiliates; (ii) maximum fee of 3.5% on
transaction amounts between $2 million and $5 million, of which no more than 3% would be paid to Regis I or affiliates; (iii) maximum fee of 2.5% on transaction amounts between $5 million and $10 million, of which no more than 2% would be paid
to Regis I; and (iv) maximum fee of 2% on transaction amounts in excess of $10 million, of which no more than 1.5% would be paid to Regis I or affiliates.       
  ITEM 11.       EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION          The Company has no employees,
payroll or benefit plans and pays no compensation to its executive officers (who are also officers of ARI and TCI), are employees of Prime and are compensated by Prime. Such executive officers perform a variety of services for Prime, and the amount
of their compensation is determined solely by Prime. Prime does not allocate the cash compensation of its officers among the various entities for which it serves as advisor or to which it subcontracts. SWI has an arrangement with Prime which SWI
pays out of fees paid to it by the Company, but no allocation of those payments is available to the Company.      The only direct remuneration
paid by the Company is to those directors who are not officers or directors of SWI or its affiliated companies. Each non-employee director receives an annual retainer of $15,000 plus reimbursement for expenses. The Chairman of the Board receives an
additional fee of $1,500 per year. The members of the Audit Committee receive a fee of $250 for each Committee meeting attended. In addition, each independent director receives an additional fee of $1,000 per day for any special services rendered by
him to the Company outside of his or her ordinary duties as a director plus reimbursement of expenses. The Company also reimburses directors for travel expenses incurred in connection with attending Board, Committee and Stockholder meetings and for
other Company-business related. Directors who are also employees of the Company or its advisor receive no additional compensation for service as a director.      During 2005, $68,750 was paid to the non-employee directors in total directors  fees for all services, including the annual fee for service during the period from January 1, 2005 through December 31,
2005. Those fees received by directors were Ted P. Stokely ($16,500), David E. Allard ($17,750), Robert A. Jakuszewski ($17,750), and Peter L. Larsen ($17,750).         

   58   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Performance Graph       The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on shares of Common Stock of the Company with the Dow Jones U.S. Total Market Index ( DJ Total Market Index ) and the Dow Jones Real
Estate Investment Index ( DJ Real Estate Index ). The comparison assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2000, in shares of Common Stock of the Company, and in each of the indices, and further assumes the reinvestment of all
distributions. Past performance is not necessarily an indicator of future performance.       COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
       AMONG INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.,        THE DOW JONES US REAL ESTATE INDEX        AND THE DOW JONES US COMPOSITE INDEX      

      * $100 invested on 12/31/01 in stock or index-including reinvestment of dividends.      Fiscal year ending December 31.       
       
   59   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

ITEM 12.   
      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS             Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans       As of December 31, 2005, the Company did not have any compensation plans under which equity securities of the Company were authorized for issuance.       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners       The following table sets forth the ownership of the Company s Common Stock, both beneficially and of record, both individually and in the aggregate, for those persons or entities known by the Company to be the
beneficial owners of more than 5% of its outstanding Common Stock as of the close of business on March 15, 2006.       
     Security Ownership of Management       The following table sets forth the ownership of the Company s Common Stock, both beneficially and of record, both individually and in the aggregate
for the directors and executive officers of the Company as of the close of business on March 15, 2006:       

*  
   Beneficial Ownership  means the sole or shared power to vote, or to direct the voting of, a security or investment power with respect to a security, or any combination
thereof.     

(1)  
  Includes 1,037,184 shares owned by TCI, of which the directors and executive officers of TCI may be deemed to be the beneficial owners by virtue of their positions as directors and
executive officers. Each of the current directors (Messrs. Butler, Munselle, Stokely and Jakuszewski and Ms. Hunt) and executive officers (Messrs. Abney, Branigan, and Corna) of TCI disclaim beneficial ownership of such shares.

(2)  
  Includes 2,382,669 shares owned by SWI, of which the directors and executive officers of SWI (Messrs. Joines and Phillips) may be deemed to be the beneficial owners by virtue of
their positions as directors and executive officers of SWI.           
   60   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

ITEM 13.       CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS           Certain Business
Relationships       In February 1989, the Board of Directors of the predecessor of the Company voted to retain BCM as the predecessor s
advisor. BCM is a company of which Messrs. Steven A. Abney, Mark W. Branigan, and Louis J. Corna serve as executive officers. BCM is indirectly owned by a trust for the children of Gene E. Phillips. Mr. Phillips is not an officer or director of
BCM but serves as a representative of the trust, is involved in daily consultation of the officers of BCM and has significant influence over the conduct of BCM s business, including the rendering of advisory services and the making of
investment decisions for itself and for the Company. On June 30, 2003, BCM ended its advisory agreement with the Company. SWI has served as the Company s advisor since July 1, 2003. SWI is owned by Gene E. Phillips. Mr. Phillips
is Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer, and a director, is involved in daily consultation with the officers of SWI, and has significant influence over the conduct of SWI s business, including the rendering of advisory services and the
making of investment decisions for itself and for the Company.      Since February 1, 1990, affiliates of BCM have provided property
management services to the Company and its predecessor. Currently, Triad provides such property management services. The general partner of Triad is PIAMI. The limited partner is Highland. Triad subcontracts the property-level management and leasing
of five of the Company s commercial properties to Regis I, a limited liability company owned by Highland.      Affiliates of BCM have also
provided brokerage services, on a non-exclusive basis, for the Company and received brokerage commissions in accordance with a brokerage agreement. Currently, Regis I performs such brokerage services for the Company.      Messrs. James D. Canon III, Louis J. Corna, and Steven A. Abney are employed by Prime, the sole member of which is PIAMI, a Nevada corporation owned by
Realty Advisors, Inc. (80%) and SWI (20%). Messrs. Abney, Canon, and Corna, executive officers of the Company, also serve as executive officers of ARI and TCI, and accordingly owe fiduciary duties to those entities as well as the Company.
Mr. Joines is an officer and director of SWI and owes fiduciary duties to SWI. Mr. Joines is the President, Mr. Stokely is the General Manager of Unified Housing Foundation, Inc., and they owe duties to this entity as well as to the
Company. Messrs. Jakuszewski and Stokely serve as directors of ARI, and TCI and owe fiduciary duties to TCI and ARI as well as the Company, under applicable law.       Related Party Transactions       Historically, the Company has engaged in and may continue to engage in business transactions,
including real estate partnerships, with related parties. Management believes that all of the related party transactions represented the best investments available at the time and were at least as advantageous to the Company as could have been
obtained from unrelated third parties.      On August 22, 2005, IORI purchased 10.08 acres of land, located in Dallas County, from TCI (a
related party) for $13 million. The purchase price was paid with cash of $7 million and the conveyance, to the seller, of $6 million in notes receivable held by IORI. The cash was obtained from financing the land acquired in the transaction
     The agreement includes a put option whereby for the period of fifteen months after the closing IORI has the right to resell the property
to the seller for a price of $13 million plus a preferred return of 9% per annum accruing from the closing date.      Due to the related
party nature of the transaction including the likelihood, that IORI will exercise its put option this transaction has been treated as a financing transaction. IORI continues to carry the $6 million of notes as a receivable and has recorded the $7
million as a receivable from TCI. TCI pays IORI interest in an amount equal to what IORI pays for its loan on the property.         
   61   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   On May 24, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $2,990,000 given by UHF for UHM to
Transcontinental Eldorado, Inc. was assigned from TCI to the Company as a partial payment for TCI s repurchase of 100% of the outstanding common shares of Transcontinental Treehouse Corporation from the Company. The sale price of Treehouse-IR
was $7.5 million.      On September 30, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $1,222,500 given by UHF for Unified Housing of
Parkside Crossing, LLC to Regis I and the accrued interest receivable of $112,878 were assigned from Regis I to the Company as a pay down of certain intercompany receivables due to the Company.      On September 30, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $1,053,616 given by UHF for United Housing of Temple, LLC to Regis I and the
accrued interest receivable of $98,338 were assigned from Regis I to the Company as a pay down of certain intercompany receivables due to the Company.      On September 30, 2004, a Secured Promissory Note in the amount of $1,770,000 given by UHF for Housing for Seniors of Lewisville, LLC, to Regis I and the accrued interest receivable of $174,640 were assigned from
Regis I to the Company as a pay down of certain intercompany receivables due to the Company.      During April 2005, in connection with the
resolution of certain litigation filed August 10, 2004 by the Company, ARI, and TCI, the Company owns 19.9% of Midland Odessa Properties, Inc. (formerly Innovo Realty, Inc.) ( MOPI ), the balance of which is owned by ARI and TCI. MOPI
in turn is a 30% limited partner in several  METRA  partnerships formed in 2002 when the Company sold all of its then owned residential properties to partnerships controlled by METRA Capital LLC. The original sale transactions were
accounted for as refinancing transactions with the Company continuing to report the assets and new debt incurred by the  METRA partnerships on the Company s financial statements. As properties are sold to independent third parties, the
transactions are reported as sales. See Notes 5 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      The Company is a partner with TCI in
Nakash Income Associates and TCI Eton Square, L.P. TCI owns 345,728 shares of Common Stock of the Company (approximately 24%).      In 2005,
the Company paid SWI and its affiliates and related parties $710,000 in advisory fees, $109,000 in net income fees, and $36,000 in mortgage brokerage and equity refinancing fees, In addition, from time to time, the Company has made advances to SWI
which generally have not had specific repayment terms, did not bear interest until July 1, 2005, and have been reflected in the Company s financial statements as receivables from or payables to affiliates. At December 31, 2005, the
Company was owed $1.8 million. Effective July 1, 2005, such advances bear interest at 1% above the prime rate. For the period July 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005, the Company received interest of $36,000.       Restrictions on Related Party Transactions       Article
FOURTEENTH of the Company s Articles of Incorporation provides that the Company shall not, directly or indirectly, contract or engage in any transaction with (1) any director, officer or employee of the Company, (2) any director,
officer or employee of the advisor, (3) the advisor, or (4) any affiliate or associate (as such terms are defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of any of the aforementioned persons, unless
(a) the material facts as to the relationship among or financial interest of the relevant individuals or persons and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed to or are known by the Company s Board of Directors or the appropriate
committee thereof, and (b) the Company s Board of Directors or appropriate committee thereof determines that such contract or transaction is fair to the Company and simultaneously authorizes or ratifies such contract or transaction by the
affirmative vote of a majority of independent directors of the Company entitled to vote thereon. Article FOURTEENTH defines an  Independent Director  as one who is neither an officer or an employee of the Company, nor a director, officer
or employee of the Company s advisor.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

ITEM 14.       PRINCIPAL    
    ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES            The
following table sets forth the aggregate fees for professional services rendered to the Company for the years 2005 and 2004 by the Company s principal accounting firms, Farmer Fuqua   Huff, P.C. (January 1, 2004 to July 22, 2004)
and Swalm   Associates, P.C. (July 22, 2004 to December 31, 2004 and January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005):       

(a)  
  The fees paid in 2005 were to Swalm   Associates, P.C.     
    All services rendered by the principal auditors are permissible under applicable laws and regulations and were pre-approved by either the Board of Directors or the Audit Committee, as required by law. The fees paid
the principal auditors for services as described in the above table fall under the categories listed below:       Audit
Fees .    These are fees for professional services performed by the principal auditor for the audit of the Company s annual financial statements and review of financial statements included in the Company s 10-Q
filings and services that are normally provided in connection with statutory and regulatory filing or engagements.       Audit-Related
Fees .    These are fees for assurance and related services performed by the principal auditor that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of the Company s financial statements. These services
include attestations by the principal auditor that are not required by statute or regulation and consulting on financial accounting/reporting standards.       Tax Fees .    These are fees for professional services performed by the principal auditor with respect to tax compliance, tax planning, tax consultation, returns preparation and review of
returns. The review of tax returns includes the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries.       All Other
Fees .    These are fees for other permissible work performed by the principal auditor that do not meet the above category descriptions.      These services are actively monitored (as to both spending level and work content) by the Audit Committee to maintain the appropriate objectivity and independence in the principal auditor s core work which is the
audit of the Company s consolidated financial statements.       Pre-Approval Policy for Audit and Non-Audit Services       Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the  SO Act ), and the rules of the SEC, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for
the appointment, compensation and oversight of the work of the independent auditor. The purpose of the provisions of the SO Act and the SEC rules for the Audit Committee role in retaining the independent auditor is two-fold. First, the authority and
responsibility for the appointment, compensation and oversight of the auditors should be with directors who are independent of management. Second, any non-audit work performed by the auditors should be reviewed and approved by these same independent
directors to ensure that any non-audit services performed by the auditor do not impair the  
       
   63   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

independence of the independent auditor. To implement the provisions of the SO Act, the SEC issued rules specifying the types of services that an independent
auditor may not provide to its audit client, and governing the Audit Committee s administration of the engagement of the independent auditor. As part of this responsibility, the Audit Committee is required to pre-approve the audit and non-audit
services performed by the independent auditor in order to assure that they do not impair the auditor s independence. Accordingly, the Audit Committee has adopted a written pre-approval policy of audit and non-audit services (the
 Policy ), which sets forth the procedures and conditions pursuant to which services to be performed by the independent auditor are to be pre-approved. Consistent with the SEC rules establishing two different approaches to approving
non-prohibited services, the policy of the Audit Committee covers pre-approval of audit services, audit-related services, international administration tax services, non-U.S. income tax compliance services, pension and benefit plan consulting and
compliance services, and U.S. tax compliance and planning. At the beginning of each fiscal year, the Audit Committee will evaluate other known potential engagements of the independent auditor, including the scope of work proposed to be performed and
the proposed fees, and approve or reject each service, taking into account whether services are permissible under applicable law and the possible impact of each non-audit service on the independent auditor s independence from management.
Typically, in addition to the generally pre-approved services, other services would include due diligence for an acquisition that may or may not have been known at the beginning of the year. The Audit Committee has also delegated to any member of
the Audit Committee designated by the Board or the financial expert member of the Audit Committee responsibilities to pre-approve services to be performed by the independent auditor not exceeding $25,000 in value or cost per engagement of audit and
non-audit services, and such authority may only be exercised when the Audit Committee is not in session.         
   64   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

PART IV        

ITEM 15.       EXHIBITS    
    AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCHEDULES             

(a)  
  The following documents are filed as part of this Report:        1. Consolidated Financial Statements       

Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants         

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        2. Financial Statement Schedules       

Schedule III Real Estate and Cumulative Depreciation         

(b)  
  The following documents are filed as Exhibits to this Report (certain of which as indicated parenthetically were previously filed as exhibits to Registration Statements filed under
the Securities Act of 1933 or to report filed under the Exchange Act and are incorporated by reference to such statements or reports:        All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or because the required information is shown in the Financial Statements or the Notes thereto.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

Exhibit Designation   

Description     
 
    3.1  

Articles of Incorporation of Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Appendix C to the Registrant s
Registration Statement on Form S-4 dated February 12, 1996)    

3.2  

Certificate of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation of Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc. as filed with and approved by the
Secretary of State of Nevada on January 11, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K for event of January 11, 2006)    

10.1  

Advisory Agreement dated as of July 1, 2003, between Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc. and Syntek West, Inc. (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.0 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K for event of July 1, 2003)    

14.1  

Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14.0 to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003)    

21.1  
  *  
      
    Subsidiaries of the Registrant    

31.1  
  *  
      
    Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Acting Principal Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer    

32.1  
  *  
      
    Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.    
     * Filed herewith.
        
   66   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SIGNATURES        Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       Dated: March 31, 2006        

I NCOME  O PPORTUNITY  R EALTY  I NVESTORS ,
I NC .    

By:  
     
  /s/    S TEVEN  A. A BNEY            

Steven A. Abney,    

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer and
Acting       Principal Executive Officer)     
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/s/    T ED  P. S TOKELY               Ted P. Stokely    
      
    Chairman of the Board and Director   
     
  March 31, 2006   

/s/    D AVID  E. A LLARD               David E. Allard    
      
    Director   
     
  March 31, 2006   

/s/    R OBERT  A.
J AKUSZEWSKI               Robert A. Jakuszewski    
      
    Director   
     
  March 31, 2006   

/s/    K EN  L. J OINES               Ken L. Joines    
      
    Director   
     
  March 31, 2006   

/s/    P ETER  L. L ARSEN               Peter L. Larsen    
      
    Director   
     
  March 31, 2006   

/s/    S TEVEN  A. A BNEY               Steven A. Abney    
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer and Acting Principal Executive
Officer)   
     
  March 31, 2006   
       
   67   

<EX-21.1>
 2
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

EXHIBIT 21.1        INCOME OPPORTUNITY REALTY INVESTORS, INC.        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT       The following is a list of all subsidiaries and partnership interests of Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc. and the state or other jurisdiction of
organization or incorporation:       

NAME OF ENTITY     
      
   OWNERSHIP %   
     
   JURISDICTION OF ORGANIZATION OR INCORPORATION    
 
     Corporations    

IORI Centura, Inc.   
      
  100%  
     
  Nevada   
 
    IORI Falcon Point, Inc.   
      
  100%  
     
  Nevada   
 
    IORI Enclave 5, Inc.   
      
  100%  
     
  Nevada   
 
    IORI Keller Springs Tech, Inc.   
      
  100%  
     
  Nevada   
 
    IORI Minerals, Inc.   
      
  100%  
     
  Nevada   
 
    IORI Valley View, Inc.   
      
  100%  
     
  Nevada   
 
    IORI Tristar Tech, Inc.   
      
  100%  
     
  Nevada   
 
    Midland Odessa Properties, Inc.   
      
  19.9%  
     
  California   
 
    Transcontinental Brewery, Inc.   
      
  100%  
     
  Nevada   
 
    Transcontinental Parkway Corporation   
      
  100%  
     
  Nevada   

Partnerships    

Nakash Income Associates   
      
  40%  
     
  Georgia   
 
    TCI Eaton Square LP   
      
  10%  
     
  Texas   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-31.1>
 3
 dex311.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERT. BY ACTING PEO AND CFO

Rule 13a-14(a) Cert. by Acting PEO and CFO 

EXHIBIT 31.1        CERTIFICATION       I, Steven A. Abney, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Acting Principal Executive
Officer, of Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc. ( IORI ), certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report of IORI;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  I am responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under my supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to me by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal controls over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under my supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report my conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluations; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in the report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  I have disclosed, based on the most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Dated: March 31, 2006   
      
    /s/    S TEVEN  A.
A BNEY             

Steven A. Abney Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer and Acting Principal Executive Officer)    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

Section 906 Certification 

EXHIBIT 32.1        Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,        as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of Income Opportunity Realty Investors, Inc. (the
 Company ), on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Steven A. Abney, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
Principal Financial and Accounting Officer and Acting Principal Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

Dated: March 31, 2006   
      
    /s/    S TEVEN  A.
A BNEY             

Steven A. Abney Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer and Acting Principal Executive Officer)    

</EX-32.1>

