<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_911673_0001193125-06-070551_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1325323</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>303173</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>66820</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>783273</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>54</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-06-070551.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331153216
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-06-070551
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			OPINION RESEARCH CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000911673
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-ENGINEERING, ACCOUNTING, RESEARCH, MANAGEMENT [8700]
		IRS NUMBER:				223118960
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14927
		FILM NUMBER:		06728570

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		600 COLLEGE ROAD EAST
		STREET 2:		SUITE 4100
		CITY:			PRINCETON
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08540
		BUSINESS PHONE:		609-452-5272

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		600 COLLEGE ROAD EAST
		STREET 2:		SUITE 4100
		CITY:			PRINCETON
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			08540

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 IRjrhBBSCnJHM9za3ugzUMDYkJY5bskBscE0KqKSkEmW3YI3lyDuwTD+TVD74KA5
 XzSXbK7nyFMKD9KfX150pw==

 0001193125-06-070551.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549        FORM 10-K       (Mark One)       
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005      or       
    For the transition period from ____________________ to ____________________      Commission
file number 1-14927       OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)        
     
     609-452-5400        (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)       Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act: None      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:       Common Stock, $.01 par value        (Title
of Class)        Preferred Stock Purchase Rights        (Title of Class)       Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.      Yes           No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.      Yes           No           Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes         No          

Table of Contents  

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.               Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of
 accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated filer          
      
  Accelerated filer         
      
  Non-accelerated filer        
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).      Yes           No           The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates
of the Registrant, based on the closing sale price of its common stock on June 30, 2005, the last business day of the Company s second fiscal quarter, as quoted on the NASDAQ National Market, was approximately $36,666,000.*      As of March 22, 2006, 5,388,532 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, were outstanding.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Portions of registrant s definitive Proxy Statement
for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the  2006 annual Meeting Proxy Statement ) are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K    

*  
  Calculated by excluding all shares that may be deemed to be beneficially owned by executive officers and directors of the Registrant, without conceding that all such persons are
 affiliates  of the Registrant for purposes of the federal securities laws.          

Table of Contents  

    OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION        
  INDEX        

PART I    

Item 1.   

Business   
      
  1   

Item 1A.   

Risk Factors   
      
  8   

Item 1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  15   

Item 2.   

Properties   
      
  15   

Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings   
      
  16   

Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  16   

PART II    

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  17   

Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data   
      
  18   

Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  20   

Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   
      
  31   

Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  32   

Item 9.   

Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  32   

Item 9A   

Controls and Procedures   
      
  32   

Item 9B.   

Other Information   
      
  32   

PART III    

Item 10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   
      
  32   

Item 11.   

Executive Compensation   
      
  32   

Item 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  33   

Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   
      
  33   

Item 14.   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
      
  33   

PART IV    

Item 15.   

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  34   

Signatures    

38   

Table of Contents  

   Except where the context indicates otherwise, the terms  we  and the  Company  refer to Opinion
Research Corporation and its subsidiaries. Readers of this report should review carefully the information contained under the headings  Risk Factors  and  Forward-Looking Statements  in Part I, Item 1A.       PART I        

Item 1.   
    Business           General       We provide research services to governments and commercial clients in North America, Europe and Asia. We collect customer, market, employee, and
demographic data by utilizing computer-assisted telephone interviews, internet-based data collection techniques, personal interviews, mail questionnaires, and other means. After collecting the data, we analyze, develop and present to our clients
cohesive reports which provide insights regarding their programs, operations or, products and services. Our services are designed to help our clients manage and evaluate public policy programs and funding decisions, sell products, and improve their
corporate image and competitive position. Our government clients include some of the largest U.S. federal agencies, including the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration ( SAMHSA ), the United States Agency for
International Development ( USAID ), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ), and the National Institutes of Health ( NIH ). We have served some of these clients for over 20 years. Our commercial
clients include a diverse base of Fortune 500 corporations in the automotive, consumer goods and services, financial services, health care, information technology, retail, and telecommunications industries. We have served the commercial research
market since 1938.      We were established in 1938 to apply the principles of general public opinion polling to marketing issues facing
America s largest companies. We completed our initial public offering in October 1993. Between 1993 and 1997, as part of our strategy to expand internationally, we established our presence in strategic markets through various acquisitions.
In January 1998, we acquired ProTel Marketing, Inc., or ORC ProTel, a telemarketing company based in Lansing, Illinois. At December 31, 2005, we sold all of our membership interest in ORC ProTel, in consideration for the assumption of all the
liabilities of the teleservices business, other than bank debt, and the possibility of receiving payments during the next five years based on the revenues of the teleservices business over a specified threshold determined annually in accordance with
a formula set forth in the sale agreement. As of December 31, 2005, we have not booked any receivable for payments under the sale agreement. In May 1999, we acquired Macro International Inc., or ORC Macro, a research, consulting and
technology company based in the Washington, D.C. area. The acquisition of ORC Macro substantially increased our presence in the public sector. In August 2000, we acquired C/J Research, Inc., and in October 2000, we acquired Social and
Health Services, Ltd ( SHS ). The two acquisitions in 2000 allowed us to expand our service offerings into the areas of consumer research and communications services and to further expand in the area of information management.   
  We currently have three segments for financial reporting purposes:       

social research;         

U.K. market research; and         

U.S. market research.        For financial information
regarding each of our reportable segments, see the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements at Note 14,  Segments.        Social Research       In the social research segment, we perform research and provide information technology services, public
health awareness services, and other research and consulting services, primarily for agencies of the U.S. federal government and state and local governments. The majority of our government projects are in the areas of health, education and
international aid. Our work benefits government policy decision makers and public healthcare professionals by providing them with the information, research, and analysis they need to measure the effectiveness of existing social programs, assess the
need for new programs, and provide constituents with useful information.         
   - 1 -   

Table of Contents  

   Our reputation for providing quality services to our clients has allowed us to develop long-term
relationships with our government agency clients. We believe that our extensive expertise with regard to social issues, such as substance abuse and HIV-AIDS awareness, enables us to provide reliable customer, market and demographic information and
advisory services to clients.       U.K. Market Research       Through our U.K. market research segment, we provide market research and data management services to our commercial clients in the U.K. and Europe and our government clients in the U.K. We create and host websites and
utilize the internet to gather and analyze data and disseminate survey information for our clients. Additionally, we provide other services to our clients such as customer satisfaction surveys, employee satisfaction surveys and market assessment
surveys, and we have the ability to maintain research archives for our clients.       U.S. Market Research       In the U.S. market research segment, we assist commercial clients in the evaluation, monitoring and optimization of their marketing and sales efforts,
addressing issues such as customer loyalty and retention, customer satisfaction, market demand, market assessment, corporate image, and competitive positioning.       Services       A summary of our services is set forth in the table below.       

Type of Service    
      
     Segment    
      
     Brief Description     

Demographic and Health Research   
      
  Social Research  
      
  Provides information in areas such as population, health, education, and nutrition to assist government organizations in their efforts to monitor and evaluate programs and to make funding
decisions.   

Customer Loyalty and Retention   
      
  U.S. and U.K. Market Research / Social Research  
      
  Captures and analyzes the perceptions and experiences of our clients  customers and provides analysis and feedback on customer loyalty which we believe will help generate superior
customer retention and business performance.   

Market Assessment   
      
  U.S. and U.K. Market Research  
      
  Used to analyze and forecast market demand, trends and competition for new products and services.   

Corporate Reputation and Branding   
      
  U.S. and U.K. Market Research  
      
  Assists our clients in managing their corporate and brand images and identifying and achieving optimal positioning in the marketplace.   

Employee Survey Programs   
      
  Social Research / U.K. Market Research  
      
  Provides comprehensive employee-related research services to measure employee satisfaction and assist our clients in their efforts to increase staff retention, reduce hiring and training
costs, and improve customer service.   

Information Technologies   
      
  Social Research / U.S. and U.K. Market Research  
      
  Includes a variety of technology-based services such as computer security products, advanced internet services including a number of proprietary internet applications, database development
and management, and information retrieval.   
       
   - 2 -   

Table of Contents  

Type of Service    
      
     Segment    
      
     Brief Description     

Advanced Analytics and Data     Modeling   
      
  Social Research / U.S. and U.K. Market Research  
      
  Allows us to focus on our clients  business issues by the application of appropriate analytical tools.   

Communications and Marketing     Services   
      
  Social Research  
      
  Provides communication and marketing campaign development, brochure design and production, radio and television advertising, website development, video development and broadcasting, and
warehousing and distribution services.   

Shared-Cost Programs   
      
  U.S. Market Research  
      
  Includes shared-cost telephone survey programs, marketed under the name  CARAVAN,  in which questions from a number of clients are combined in a series of interview
questionnaires.   

Data Collection and Processing   
      
  Social Research / U.S. and U.K. Market Research  
      
  Combines research expertise and advanced telecommunications technology using facilities staffed with multilingual interviewers who use a common Computer Assisted Telephone Interviewing
(CATI) system and internet based data collection techniques.   

Management Consulting   
      
  Social Research  
      
  Assists our clients in their efforts to improve organizational effectiveness, develop management leadership programs and address opportunities and problem areas.   

Training and Educational     Technologies   
      
  Social Research  
      
  Offers training services to help organizations adapt to and capitalize on changing circumstances.   
     Clients and Client Relationships       Our largest clients in terms of revenues generated include agencies of the U.S. and U.K. governments and at times, we perform multiple projects for
different subsidiaries or business units of the same client. In general, our clients have the right to terminate our engagements at any time, with the expectation of cost recovery for work completed by us. We may perform services for our commercial
clients pursuant to verbal understandings, project terms that are outlined in writing, purchase orders, or detailed written contracts. Most commercial projects are completed within a few months, but we may complete some projects in just several days
or in as long as several years. Our arrangements with government clients are in the form of detailed contracts. Most government contracts are completed over a one- to five-year period.      Our largest single client, SAMHSA, accounted for 19.2% of revenues in 2003, 19.5% of revenues in 2004, 20.7% of revenues in 2005, and an average of 19.8%
of our revenues for the last three years. At December 31, 2005, we had 24 contracts with SAMHSA, none of which constituted more than 7.4% of our revenues in 2005. At December 31, 2005, we had contracts with each of the three component
centers within SAMHSA: the Center for Mental Health Services, the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention and the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment. We provide a wide variety of services to SAMHSA s three centers. Our services relate to
substance abuse and mental health issues, including quantitative and qualitative research, evaluation of program effectiveness, development and operation of public health websites, and dissemination of public health materials and messages. Our
second largest client, USAID, accounted for 12.6% of revenues in 2003, 13.5% of revenues in 2004, and 15.3% of revenues in 2005, and an average of 13.8% of our revenues for the last three years. We have 10 contracts with USAID. Our largest contract
with USAID was renewed in September 2003 and extends through September 2008  
       
   - 3 -   

Table of Contents  

and is a cost-plus-award-fee contract to perform demographic and health surveys in developing countries. See   Government Contracts  below for
a discussion of the types of contracts we have with the U.S. federal government.       Government Contracts       During the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 58.7% of our revenues were attributable to contracts with various departments and agencies of
the U.S. federal government. The funding of government programs depends on Congressional appropriations. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis, even though a program may be designed to continue for many years. Consequently,
most programs are initially partially funded and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations.      Government
contracts are subject to oversight audits by government representatives. Provisions in these contracts permit termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government s convenience. Compensation in the event of a termination
for convenience is limited to work completed at the time of termination. In the event of a termination, the contractor will receive an allowance for profit on the work performed. In general, all of our clients, including the U.S. federal government,
have the right to terminate their contracts with us at any time. In addition to this general right to terminate, all contracts with the U.S. federal government contain provisions, and/or are subject to laws and regulations, that give the government
rights and remedies not typically found in our commercial contracts, including rights that allow the government to:       

claim rights in and ownership of products and systems that we produce;         

adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits completed by its agencies;         

suspend or debar us from doing business with the U.S. federal government; and         

release information obtained from us in response to a Freedom of Information Act request.        Our U.S. federal government contracts include fixed-price contracts, time-and-material contracts and cost-reimbursement contracts, including
cost-plus-fixed-fee, cost-plus-award-fee and cost-plus-incentive-fee.       

Fixed-price Contracts . This type of contract provides for a firm pricing arrangement established by the parties at the time of contracting. These contracts are not subject to
adjustment by reason of costs incurred in the performance of the contract. With this type of contract, we assume the risk that we will be able to perform at a cost below the fixed-price, except for costs incurred because of contract changes ordered
by the client.         

Time-and-Materials Contracts . This type of contract provides for the provision of supplies or services on the basis of (1) direct labor hours at specified hourly rates
that include direct and indirect costs, such as wages, overhead, general and administrative expenses, and profit, and (2) materials at cost. With these contracts, we assume the risk that we will be able to perform at the negotiated hourly
rates.         

Cost-reimbursement Contracts . This type of contract calls for payment to the contractor of allowable incurred costs to the extent provided in the contract. There are three
variations of this type of contract:         

Cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts provide for payment to us of a negotiated fee that is fixed at the inception of the contract. This fixed fee does not vary with actual cost of the
contract, but may be adjusted as a result of changes in the work to be performed under the contract. This contract poses less risk than a fixed price contract, but our ability to win future contracts from the procuring agency may be adversely
affected if we fail to perform within the maximum cost set forth in the contract.         

Cost-plus-award-fee contracts provide for a fee consisting of a base amount (which may be zero) fixed at inception of the contract and an award amount, based upon the
government s satisfaction with our performance under the contract. With this type of contract, we assume the risk that we may not be awarded the award fee, or that we may be awarded only a portion of it, if we do not perform satisfactorily.
          
   - 4 -   

Table of Contents  

Cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts provide for an initially negotiated fee to be adjusted later by a formula based on the relationship of total allowable costs to total target costs.
As is the case with all cost-reimbursement contracts, we assume the risk that, if our costs are not allowable under the terms of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to recover the costs.        We are subject to various statutes and regulations governing government contracts. These statutes and regulations carry substantial penalty provisions,
including suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time, if we are found to have violated any of these regulations. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those
related to the following:       

procurement integrity;         

export control;         

government security regulations;         

employment practices;         

protection of the environment;         

accuracy of records; and         

recording of costs.        We carefully monitor all of our
contracts and contractual efforts to minimize the possibility of any violation of these regulations.      As a government contractor, we are
subject at any time to government audits, inquiries and investigations. We generally are subject to audits for up to three years following the final payment under our U.S. federal government contracts. We have experienced minimal audit adjustments
over the past ten years. The most recent indirect cost-rate audit, performed by the Department of Health and Human Services, was through the year ended December 31, 2003 for all of the government contracting business and through
December 31, 2004 for a majority of the government contracting business. There were no material audit adjustments.       Competition       For business to business market research, we believe that we compete for clients based on a variety of factors, including the following:       

name recognition;         

reputation;         

expertise in a variety of industries;         

ability to access executives and other key constituencies;         

ability to collect accurate and representative data;         

ability to enhance the value of the data collected through analysis and consulting;         

technological competence;         

reliability;         

promptness; and         

efficiency.           
   - 5 -   

Table of Contents  

   In our experience, our typical clients are interested in the quality and utility of the service received,
as well as price.      For consumer market research services, we regularly experience significant competition from a large number of
competitors, including marketing and research departments of various companies, advertising agencies and business consulting firms. Price, reputation, and quality of service are the dominant considerations.      For social research services, we compete with a large number of firms that vary in size as well as with not-for-profit organizations. The competition
varies depending upon the agency for which the work is being conducted and the services to be provided. Technical competence is the key differentiator.      Many other firms provide some of the services that we provide. While bidding on a project we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage. In some circumstances, a competitor has an advantage over us because:

the competitor has a lower cost structure or profit objective which enables it to offer lower prices;         

the competitor is larger and better known than we are and therefore may be perceived as being able to offer more services and handle larger contracts;         

the competitor has a larger sales force that may result in more aggressive selling of services;         

the competitor has product offerings that may be more attractive to some clients; and         

the competitor has what is perceived as superior technology, methodologies or proprietary approaches that may enable it to provide services that we cannot.     
  Any one or more of these advantages may influence the decision of one of our clients or potential clients to obtain services from a competitor rather than from us.
      Segment Information       Information
regarding financial data by operating and geographic segments, including revenues from external customers, is set forth in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements at Note 14,  Segments.        Backlog       As of December 31, 2004 and 2005 our
backlog was as follows:       
    We define backlog as the total contract value of our engagements that our management believes to
be firm less previously recognized revenues. Our backlog includes twelve months of commercial contracts, the funded and unfunded amounts of our government contracts, and options to renew or extend government contracts that we expect our clients to
exercise. Congress generally appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly basis, even though contracts may call for performance that is expected to take a number of years. Our funded backlog in our social research segment
consists of the amount of: (1) our U.S. federal government contracts that have been appropriated by Congress and funded by the client agency; (2) our state and local government contracts that have  
       
   - 6 -   

Table of Contents  

been appropriated by the applicable government entity; and (3) our commercial contracts. Unfunded backlog includes the full value of our government
contracts in our social research segment less funded backlog applicable to those contracts.      The amount of our total backlog and funded
backlog may vary as a result of the execution of new contracts or the extension of existing contracts, exercise of options, reductions from contracts that end or are completed, reductions from the early termination of contracts and adjustments to
estimates of previously included contracts. The amount of our funded backlog is also affected by the funding of the U.S. federal government.      All of the 2005 backlog in the market research business is expected to be recognized as revenues by December 31, 2006. Revenues from social research backlog are expected to be recognized over the next five years. Our engagements
generally are terminable by the client at any time, with the expectation of cost recovery for work performed by us.       Employees       At December 31, 2005, we employed a total of approximately 1,114 full-time employees and 424 full-time equivalent part-time hourly employees. The
part-time employees work as telephone and field interviewers and data processors. At December 31, 2005, of the full-time employees, approximately 894 were professionals engaged in direct client service, and 220 were engaged in support,
administration and executive oversight.      None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced
any work stoppages. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good.       Available Information       We file reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) pursuant to the information requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Readers may read and copy any document that the we file at the SEC s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information
on the public reference room. Our filings are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and at the SEC s website at www.sec.gov.      We maintain a website at www.opinionresearch.com, that includes links to our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and related amendments, which are available as
soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed or furnished electronically with the SEC. Our website and the information contained in it shall not be deemed incorporated by reference to this Form 10-K.        Executive Officers of the Registrant         

Name    
      
   Age   
        
     Title     
 
    John F. Short   
      
  61  
        
  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Director   

Frank J. Quirk   
      
  65  
        
  President of Opinion Research Corporation and Chief Executive Officer of ORC Macro; Director   

Douglas L. Cox   
      
  60  
        
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

Richard I. Cornelius   
      
  45  
        
  Senior Vice President of Opinion Research Corporation and Managing Director of O.R.C. International Ltd. (U.K.)   

Kevin P. Croke   
      
  47  
        
  Executive Vice President - Corporate Finance   

Gregory N. Mahnke   
      
  54  
        
  Executive Vice President and President of ORC Macro   

Gerard J. Miodus   
      
  49  
        
  Executive Vice President and Managing Director of U.S. Market Research   
       
   - 7 -   

Table of Contents  

   Below is a short summary of the business experience of each of our executive officers:      Mr. Short has served as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board of directors since 1999. Mr. Short joined our company and was
appointed as our Chief Financial Officer in 1989. He was elected to the board of directors in 1991. Mr. Short was later appointed Vice Chairman in 1992 and President in 1998. Prior to joining our company, Mr. Short served as the Chief
Financial Officer of Hay Systems, Inc., a management consulting company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Hay Group.      Mr. Quirk has
served as our President since November 2003 and was elected to our board of directors in June 2000. Mr. Quirk joined our company in 1999 with the acquisition of ORC Macro, where he served, and continues to serve, as the Chief Executive Officer
since 1980. Under his direction, ORC Macro has grown from $3 million in annual revenues to over $137 million in 2005. Mr. Quirk received his A.B. and M.B.A. from Cornell University.      Mr. Cox has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 1998 and as our Secretary since 1999. Prior to joining
us, Mr. Cox spent ten years as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Elf Atochem North America, Inc., a specialty chemical company. Mr. Cox holds an M.B.A. from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
     Mr. Cornelius has served as Managing Director of O.R.C. International Ltd. since 2003. Mr. Cornelius joined us in 1993 when we
acquired Gordon Simmons Research Group Limited, a U.K. research company. Mr. Cornelius was appointed Managing Director of Gordon Simmons Research in 1996, Deputy Managing Director of our combined U.K. operations in 1998, and Managing Director
of O.R.C. International Ltd. in 2003.      Mr. Croke has served as our Executive Vice President since 1998 and as our Treasurer since
1999. Mr. Croke joined us in 1991 as Controller, and he has since served in various capacities in our finance department. Mr. Croke served as our Director of Finance from 1995 until his appointment as Executive Vice President in 1998.
Mr. Croke holds an M.B.A. from Case Western Reserve University.      Dr. Mahnke was promoted to the position of President of ORC
Macro in 2005. Dr. Mahnke joined our company with the acquisition of ORC Macro in 1999, where he has served in various capacities since 1988. Dr. Mahnke received his Ph.D. from Indiana University in 1986.      Mr. Miodus was promoted to the position of Managing Director of U.S. Market Research in 2005. Mr. Miodus has served in various capacities
in U.S. Market Research since joining our company in 1984. Mr. Miodus holds a B.A. from Michigan State University.       

Item 1A.   
    Risk Factors          Readers of this report should
be aware that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual operating results and could cause our actual consolidated results for 2006 and beyond to differ materially from
those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of us.       Risks Related to Our Business         General economic and industry-specific factors beyond our control may adversely affect our business by causing demand for our services to decline.
       A number of factors beyond our control could decrease the demand of our existing clients for our services and impair our ability to
attract new clients. These include marketing budgets, general economic conditions, business consolidations, government spending, and other industry-specific trends. Changes in management or ownership of an existing client are also factors that could
affect the client s demand for our services. As a result, we may provide different levels of services to our clients from year to year, and these differences can cause a decline in or contribute to fluctuations in our operating results.
        
   - 8 -   

Table of Contents  

     Our business could suffer if we were to lose the business of SAMHSA, USAID or one or more of our
other large clients.        SAMHSA and USAID are our largest clients. SAMHSA represented 20.7% of our revenues and 19.2% of our backlog at
December 31, 2005. USAID, our second largest client, represented 15.3% of our revenues and 29.5% of our backlog at December 31, 2005. Services we provided to various U.S. federal and state governmental departments and agencies, including
SAMHSA and USAID, generated approximately 64.9% of our revenues in 2005. Our clients generally may terminate the services we provide to them at any time. If we lose one or more of our large clients, such as SAMHSA or USAID , or if one or more of our
large clients reduces its business with us, our revenues could decline.        We have incurred losses in recent years and may not be
profitable in the future. These losses may adversely affect our business and the market price of our stock.        We incurred net losses
of $8.9 million in 2003 and $4.5 million in 2005. We may not be able to attain or increase profitability in the future on a quarterly or annual basis. Any future losses may adversely affect our business and the market price of our stock.
       The level of our debt, interest thereon, payment obligations and covenants in our loan agreements could adversely affect our results
and business by limiting our operational and financial flexibility.        Interest expense represents a significant portion of our
operating expenses and an increase in interest rates will result in a decrease in operating results.      If we do not generate sufficient cash
from our operations to make scheduled debt payments our operational and financial flexibility will be adversely affected.      Our present
credit agreements contain customary financial and operating covenants. These covenants limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur additional debt, prepay specified types of indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, sell assets,
or engage in mergers and acquisitions. These covenants could adversely affect our business by limiting our operational and financial flexibility.        We may enter into acquisitions that may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention.        We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, a wide array of possible acquisitions. We cannot assure you that any acquisition we make in the future will provide us with the benefits we anticipated in
entering into the transaction. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including:       

difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies;         

maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies;         

potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of management;         

impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel;         

inability to maintain relationships with customers of the acquired business;         

difficulties in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our services;         

unexpected expenses resulting from the acquisition;         

potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses; and         

unanticipated expenses related to acquired technology and its integration into our existing technology.           
   - 9 -   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, restructuring charges and large one-time
write-offs, such as write-offs for acquired in-process research and development costs. Acquisitions may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges.
Furthermore, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, the holdings of our existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decline.        Fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results may cause unanticipated decreases in available cash and may cause the value of our stock
to decline.        A number of factors, many of which are outside our control, may cause or contribute to significant fluctuations in our
quarterly and annual revenue and operating results. These fluctuations may make financial planning and forecasting more difficult. In addition, these fluctuations may result in unanticipated decreases in our available cash, which could negatively
impact our operations. These fluctuations also could increase the volatility of our stock price.      A number of factors cause our revenues,
cash flow and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter, including:       

fluctuations in revenues earned and expenses incurred on fixed-price contracts and contracts with a performance-based fee structure;         

commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter;         

variable purchasing patterns under government and commercial contracts; and         

changes in policy or budgetary measures that adversely affect government and commercial contracts in general.        Changes in the number of contracts commenced, completed or terminated during any quarter may cause significant variations in our revenues and, because a
relatively large amount of our expenses are fixed, in our operating results. In addition, payments due to us from government agencies may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of delayed approvals of governmental budgets by legislative,
executive or other governmental bodies.        Our operating results may suffer if there are additional significant goodwill write-offs.
       Goodwill related to acquisitions represents a substantial portion of our total assets. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we wrote off
impaired goodwill in the aggregate amount of $6 million. At December 31, 2005, the net goodwill amount on our consolidated balance sheet represented 29.2% of our total assets. Goodwill is an intangible asset and represents the excess of the
purchase price that we paid for acquired businesses over the estimated fair market value of the net assets of those businesses. If the fair value of the goodwill, determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards, falls below the
recorded value shown on the balance sheet, we will be required to write off the excess goodwill. Any future write-off would be treated as an expense and, although non-cash in nature, would adversely affect our operating results by reducing net
income.      In the third quarter of 2005, we wrote off impaired goodwill of $5.5 million in our former teleservices business. This charge is
included in our financial results for discontinued operations.        If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the
personnel required for our business, our operating results could suffer.        We are a service business, and as such we are dependent
upon the efforts and skills of our senior executives and other key employees. The cumulative effect of losing several of these individuals could hurt our business. We do not currently maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our
executives other than John F. Short, our Chief Executive Officer. Competition for senior management is intense, and in the future we may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining other personnel that we may require.
        
   - 10 -   

Table of Contents  

     Our clients  spending priorities may change in a manner which could negatively affect our
revenues.        A majority of our revenues result from services we provide to the U.S. federal government; therefore, our business
depends upon continued U.S. federal government expenditures. A significant decline in government expenditures, or a shift of expenditures away from programs for which we provide services, could adversely affect our business. In addition, it has been
our experience that our commercial clients generally view their expenditures for our services as discretionary. If our commercial clients  budgets for discretionary spending on programs for which we provide services decrease or if their
priorities for spending shift in a manner that results in a significant decline in research expenditures, our business could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues.        Our contracts with the U.S. federal government grant the government rights that are typically not found in commercial contracts and that could
adversely affect our revenues and income.        We presently have approximately 150 active contracts and task orders with the U.S.
federal government which represented approximately 58.7% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. There are inherent risks in contracting with the U.S. federal government which could have an adverse effect on our business. All
contracts with the U.S. federal government contain provisions, and/or are subject to laws and regulations, that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in our commercial contracts, including rights that allow the government to:

claim rights in and ownership of products and systems that we produce;         

adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits completed by its agencies;         

suspend or debar us from doing business with the U.S. federal government; and         

release information obtained from us in response to a Freedom of Information Act request.          The U.S. federal government has the right to terminate its contracts with us at any time and such terminations could adversely affect our revenues
and income.        The U.S. federal government has the right to terminate its contracts with us at any time. If the U.S. federal
government terminates a contract, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed before the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may not recover even those
amounts, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Additionally, most of our backlog could be reduced by any modification or termination of contracts that
we have with the U.S. federal government or, in cases where we are a subcontractor, contracts that our prime contractors have with the U.S. federal government.        As a contractor to the U.S. federal government, we are subject to restrictions and compliance requirements that could divert the attention of our management, drain our resources and/or result in additional
costs, fines or other penalties.        As a contractor to the U.S. federal government, we are subject to various laws and regulations
that are more restrictive than those applicable to non-government contractors. We are required to obtain and maintain material governmental authorizations and approvals to conduct our business as it is currently conducted. New or more stringent laws
or governmental regulations concerning government contracts could hurt our business by limiting our flexibility and by potentially causing us to incur additional expenses.      We also must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. federal government
contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our U.S. federal government clients and may result in added costs for our business. For example, we are required to comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulations and all
supplements, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. federal government contracts, and the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection
with contract negotiations. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including:       

termination of contracts;           
   - 11 -   

Table of Contents  

forfeiture of profits;         

suspension of payments;         

fines; and         

suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies.        Any of the sanctions could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results.        We may not receive the full amount authorized under contracts that we have entered into and our backlog may be lower than we have projected, both of which could reduce our future revenues.        We define backlog as the total contract value of our engagements that our management believes to be firm, less previously recognized revenues. Our backlog
includes twelve months of commercial contracts, the funded and unfunded amounts of our government contracts, and options to renew or extend government contracts that we expect our clients to exercise. However, the maximum contract value specified
under each contract that we enter into is not necessarily indicative of the revenues that we will realize under that contract. Because we may not receive the full amount we expect under a contract, our estimates of our backlog may not prove to be
accurate since the actual recognition of revenues on programs included in backlog may never occur or may change. Estimates of future revenues included in backlog are not necessarily precise and the receipt and timing of any of the revenues are
subject to contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. For a discussion of these contingencies, see  Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.        Our competitors could challenge successfully the award of a government contract to us, causing us to lose the contract, which could reduce our
future revenues.        A unique feature of U.S. federal government contracting allows a contractor that loses a prime contract award to
protest the contract award to its competitor and obtain an independent review of the agency s decision-making process. A contractor may also protest the terms of a bid solicitation if it believes those terms to be unfair or anticompetitive. If
one or more of our competitors challenges a contract awarded to us, the government may ultimately determine that it is necessary for the contract to undergo a new round of evaluation and competition, and our contract with the government may be
terminated. A successful challenge by a competitor could cause us to lose a contract that might otherwise be awarded to us and reduce our future revenues.        Our government contracts are subject to audits and cost adjustments by the U.S. federal government, which could hurt our operating results.        The U.S. federal government audits and reviews our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws,
regulations and standards. Responding to governmental audits, inquiries or investigations may involve significant expense and divert the attention of our management. An audit of our work, including an audit of work performed by companies we have
acquired or may acquire, could result in a substantial adjustment to our revenues because any costs determined by the government to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and revenues we have already recognized may
need to be refunded. If a U.S. federal government audit results in allegations of improper or illegal activities by us or our employees and if we are unable to successfully defend against those allegations, we may be subject to civil and criminal
penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, and / or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. In addition, we could
suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us regardless of the merits of any such allegation. In addition, the U.S. federal government may conduct non-audit reviews on a majority of our government
contracts, which in turn could lead to full audit reviews by the government.         
   - 12 -   

Table of Contents  

     We may not accurately estimate the expenses, time and resources necessary to satisfy our
contractual obligations, which could hurt our operating results.        We enter into three types of contracts with our clients:
fixed-price, cost-reimbursement and time-and-materials. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we derived approximately 43.1% of our consolidated revenues from fixed-price contracts, 48.2% of our consolidated revenues from cost-reimbursement
contracts and 8.8% of our consolidated revenues from time-and-materials contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we provide specified services for a fixed price. Compared to cost-reimbursement contracts, fixed-price contracts generally offer higher
margin opportunities, but involve greater financial risk because we bear the impact of cost overruns. Our profits could be adversely affected if our costs under any of these contracts exceed the assumptions we used in bidding for or negotiating the
contract. Under cost-reimbursement contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. To the extent that the actual costs incurred in performing a cost-reimbursement contract are within the
contract ceiling and allowable under the terms of the contract and applicable regulations, we are entitled to reimbursement of our costs, plus a profit. However, if our costs exceed the ceiling or are not allowable under the terms of the contract
or, in the case of government contracts, by applicable regulations, our income may be adversely affected because we may not be able to recover those costs. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are reimbursed for labor at negotiated hourly billing
rates and for expenses. We assume financial risk on time-and-materials contracts because we assume the risk of performing those contracts at negotiated hourly rates.        If our employees engage in misconduct or other improper activities, we could be subject to various penalties and liabilities.        We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur and would expose us, as well as the individual employee, to various penalties and liabilities, including those under the Federal False
Claims Act. Misconduct by employees could include intentional or unintentional failures to comply with U.S. federal government procurement regulations or failure to disclose unauthorized or unsuccessful activities to us. It is not always possible to
deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity   including our policies and procedures   may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses.        Our competitors could obtain, and use to our detriment, confidential information about us obtained through a request under the Freedom of
Information Act.        Our competitors may be able to obtain confidential information about us, such as our cost or pricing policies, in
a request under the Freedom of Information Act. The competitor could use this information as the basis for a successful challenge to the award of a contract to us or to gain a competitive business advantage that it might use to our detriment in
future bid solicitations.        Our international operations subject us to social, political and economic risks of doing business in
foreign countries.        Approximately 12.9% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 were generated from contracts
performed outside of the U.S., and a portion of those revenues was denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We are exposed to foreign currency risk to the extent that the results of our foreign operations may decline in value as
measured in U.S. dollars. It has not been our practice to enter into foreign exchange contracts to protect against adverse foreign currency fluctuations, and we cannot predict whether future exchange rate fluctuations will significantly harm our
operations or financial results. In addition to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, we are exposed to further risks inherent in doing business abroad, including limitations on asset transfers, changes in foreign regulations and
political turmoil, all of which could adversely affect our operating results.        Several of our purported stockholders have filed a
lawsuit against us, which could result in significant legal costs and divert management attention from the operation of our business.        On December 2, 2004, several of our purported stockholders filed a derivative complaint against us and our directors in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware alleging, among other things, that our directors breached their
fiduciary duties of good faith and loyalty to us and our stockholders. The lawsuit sought injunctive relief, rescissory damages and costs related to the suit. We could incur significant costs defending the lawsuit, and  
       
   - 13 -   

Table of Contents  

management attention could be diverted from other important business concerns. An adverse determination in the lawsuit may harm our business. For more
information about this lawsuit, see  Item 3. Legal Proceedings  in this report.       Risks Related to Our Industry         The marketing research industry is vulnerable to general economic conditions, which may cause our revenues to decline.        Many of our clients treat all or a portion of their marketing research expenditures as discretionary. If general economic conditions worsen and these
companies seek to control variable costs, research projects for which we have been engaged to collect data may be delayed or cancelled, and new project bookings may decrease. As a result, our revenues may decline.        Our industry is competitive, and larger, better financed competitors may be more successful in obtaining clients than we are.     
  We face competition in connection with most of the services we provide. Other companies, including some with greater financial resources than we have,
may offer a range of services similar to those offered by us, or may otherwise compete more effectively in the research and information services industry. We regularly experience significant competition for clients seeking research services from a
large number of our competitors. These competitors include market research companies, advertising agencies, and business consulting firms. We compete for research clients with a large number of firms that vary in size as well as with not-for-profit
organizations.        Our business may suffer if state and U.S. federal government  do not call  list regulations are made
applicable to market research phone calls.        Our business may be restricted by the development of various U.S. federal and state
 do not call  lists and other privacy regulations that permit consumers to protect themselves from unsolicited telemarketing telephone calls. In 2003, the Federal Trade Commission amended its rules to establish a national  do not
call  registry. Although  do not call  list regulations do not currently apply to market research phone calls, new legislation or regulation could eliminate the current market research exemption. If  do not call  list
regulations become applicable to market research phone calls, our results of operations may be adversely affected by the loss of revenues.       SPECIAL NOTE
REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS       This report includes forward-looking statements. In general, statements other than statements of
historical facts contained in this report, including statements regarding revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses, profitability, financial position, business strategy, and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are
forward-looking statements. The words  believe,   may,   will,   estimate,   continue,   anticipate,   intend,   expect  and similar expressions, as they relate to us,
are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition,
results of operations, business strategy, and financial needs. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions described under the heading  Risk Factors  and elsewhere in this report,
including, among other things:       

fluctuations in demand for our services;         

competition;         

our dependence on key personnel;         

government funding of social research projects;         

leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates);         

domestic and global economic, credit and capital market conditions;           
   - 14 -   

Table of Contents  

foreign exchange fluctuations;         

changes in federal or state tax laws or the administration of these laws;         

regulatory or judicial proceedings;         

the outcome of the stockholders  derivative litigation; and         

certain other risks described in this report under the heading  Risk Factors.         This list of risks is not exhaustive. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risk factors,
nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. We caution you not to
place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report as a result of new information, future events or
developments, except as required by federal securities laws.       

Item 1B.   
    Unresolved Staff Comments          Not Applicable.

Item 2.   
    Properties          Our executive offices are
located in leased space in Princeton, New Jersey. We lease additional facilities throughout the world. The following table sets forth certain information relating to these properties:       

Operating Unit    
      
     Location    
      
     Facility Usage     

U.S. Market Research   
      
    Princeton, New Jersey   
      
  Worldwide Headquarters, Research Location   

Arlington Heights, Illinois   
      
  Research Location   

Maumee, Ohio   
      
  Research Location   

Tucson, Arizona   
      
  Telephone Interviewing Facility   

Reno, Nevada   
      
  Telephone Interviewing Facility   

U.K. Market Research   
      
    London, U.K.   
      
  U.K. Market Research Headquarters, Research Location and Telephone Interviewing Facility   

Manchester, U.K.   
      
  Research Location   

Asia Market Research   
      
    Hong Kong   
      
  Asia Market Research Headquarters, Research Location and Telephone Interviewing Facility   

Shanghai, China   
      
  Research Location   

Taipei, Taiwan   
      
  Country Headquarters, Research Location and Telephone Interviewing Facility   

Social Research   
      
    Calverton, Maryland   
      
  ORC Macro Headquarters, Research Location   

Burlington, Vermont   
      
  Telephone Interviewing Facility and Research Location   

St. Albans, Vermont   
      
  Telephone Interviewing Facility   

New York, New York   
      
  Research Location   

Bethesda, Maryland   
      
  Research Location   

Plattsburgh, New York   
      
  Telephone Interviewing Facility   

Atlanta, Georgia   
      
  Research Location   

Rockville, Maryland   
      
  Research Location and Multi-media Production Facility   

Columbia, Maryland   
      
  Warehouse   
       
   - 15 -   

Table of Contents  

   Our U.S. telephone interviewing facilities serve both our U.S. market research and our social research
operating units.      We presently have a combined total of 657 computer assisted telephone interviewing stations worldwide dedicated to market
research. All of these facilities are equipped with state-of-the-art hardware and software.      We believe that our properties are sufficient
for our current operational needs.       

Item 3.   
    Legal Proceedings          Except for the following
lawsuit, we are not a party to any litigation that we believe could have a material adverse effect on us.      On December 2, 2004,
several persons who purported to be stockholders of the Company filed a derivative complaint against the Company and its directors in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware challenging the decision to repurchase certain interests in the Company
held by LLR Equity Partners, L.P. and its affiliate (collectively,  LLR ). The plaintiffs alleged, among other things, that the purchase price the Company intended to pay for certain of the interests held by LLR would constitute a waste of
corporate assets. The complaint further alleged that, in approving a common stock offering and the repurchase of the interests held by LLR, the directors did not act on the Company s behalf or on behalf of its stockholders but, rather, breached
their fiduciary duties of good faith and loyalty to the Company and its stockholders. Finally, the complaint alleged that Janney Montgomery Scott LLC ( JMS ), an independent valuation firm, materially overvalued the LLR interests in its
opinion to the Company s board of directors that the Company s repurchase of the LLR interests was fair, from a financial point of view, to the stockholders other than LLR.      Thereafter, the Company and LLR modified the terms on which the repurchase would be completed, the Company issued senior subordinated notes to finance
the repurchase and, in July of 2005, the Company repurchased all of LLR s interests in the Company for $20 million. The plaintiffs then amended their complaint to challenge the repurchase as completed but again alleged that the Company paid too
much for the LLR interests, that the directors breached their duties of good faith and loyalty in approving the repurchase on the modified terms and that JMS overvalued the LLR interests when it opined that the repurchase of the LLR interests was
fair, from a financial point of view, to the stockholders other than LLR.      We have not accrued any costs, beyond incurred legal costs, for
expense relating to this matter as the Company and its directors believe plaintiff s allegations have no merit and we intend to vigorously defend the actions challenged in the plaintiff s amended complaint. Any expense to be incurred in
conjunction with this matter cannot reasonably be estimated at this time.       

Item 4.   
    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders          The Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company was held on October 27, 2005 at the Company s headquarters. The following proposals were submitted to a vote of stockholders:       

1.  
  To elect three Directors to serve until the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company and until their successors have been duly elected and qualified.

2.  
  To ratify the appointment of Grant Thornton LLP as the Company s independent registered public accounting firm for the year ended December 31, 2005.

- 16 -   

Table of Contents  

3.  
  To act upon a stockholder proposal regarding the retention of an investment banker to explore strategic alternatives.         
     PART II        

Item 5.   
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities           Market Information       Our common stock is currently
quoted on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol  ORCI.  The table below sets forth the high and low prices for our common stock (the  Common Stock ) for each of the four quarters of 2004 and 2005:       
    The closing price of the Common Stock on March 22, 2006 was $5.99 per share.       Holders       As of March 22, 2006, we had 108
holders of record of the Common Stock (approximately 508 beneficial stockholders).       Dividends       We have not paid any dividends on our common stock during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005. Our credit facilities prohibit us from
paying cash dividends to holders of our common stock. Further, we currently intend to retain any earnings of our company for the future operation and growth of our business. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common
stock in the foreseeable future. However, our board of directors, at its discretion, may decide to declare a dividend at an appropriate time in the future. A decision to pay a dividend would depend, among other factors, upon our results of
operations, financial condition and cash requirements, the terms of our credit facility, and other financing agreements at the time a payment of dividends is considered.       Securities Authorized For Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans       The information required by
Item 201 of Regulation S-K (  229.200 (d) of this chapter) will be contained in the Company s 2006 Proxy Statement, to be filed with the SEC within 120 days following the end of the Company s fiscal year ended
December 31, 2005, and is hereby incorporated by reference thereto.         
   - 17 -   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
    Selected Financial Data          The following
selected financial data should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes which are listed herein under Item 8 and are included on pages F-1 through F-30. The financial data for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 have been adjusted for the 2005 discontinued operations.       

(1)  
  We recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $5.9 million in 2002 and $6.0 million in 2003 to reduce the carrying value of goodwill in our U.S. market research segment.
          
   - 18 -   

Table of Contents  

(2)  
  In the third quarter of 2005, we wrote off $1.3 million in expense related to a discontinued equity offering.         

(3)  
  As a result of the amendment of our credit facility in the third quarter of 2002, we experienced a $77,000 expense associated with the write-off of unamortized loan fees. In the
second quarter of 2004 we refinanced our debt and recognized an expense of $2.5 million for the write-off of unamortized loan fees. In the first quarter of 2005 we refinanced our debt and recognized an expense of $813,000 for the write-off of
unamortized loan fees and incurred prepayment penalties in the amount of $362,000         

(4)  
  In December 2005, we entered into an agreement to sell the Company s teleservices business, which was effective as of December 31, 2005. We also closed our market research
operations in South Korea and Mexico due to inconsistent operating results and a determination that these operations were not strategic in providing the Company s services to its global clients.         

(5)  
  In 2003, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $10.0 million and $317,000 in our former teleservices segment and Korean market research subsidiary respectively. In 2005
we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $5.5 million to reduce the carrying value of goodwill in our former teleservices segment.         

(6)  
  On January 1, 2002, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge in our Mexican subsidiary of $292,000 as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle upon adoption of
Statement No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.          

(7)  
  Amounts include capital leases.           
   - 19 -   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations           Overview       We provide research services to governments and commercial clients in North America, Europe
and Asia. We collect customer, market, employee, and demographic data by utilizing computer-assisted telephone interviews, internet-based data collection techniques, personal interviews, mail questionnaires and other means. After collecting the
data, we analyze, develop and present to our clients cohesive reports which provide insights regarding their programs, operations, or products and services. Our services are designed to help our clients manage and evaluate public policy programs and
funding decisions, sell products, and improve their corporate image and competitive position. Our government clients include some of the largest U.S. federal agencies, including SAMHSA, USAID, CDC, and NIH. We have served some of these clients for
over 20 years. Our commercial clients include a diverse base of Fortune 500 corporations in the automotive, consumer goods and services, financial services, health care, information technology, retail, and telecommunications industries. We have
served the commercial research market since 1938.      We were established in 1938 to apply the principles of general public opinion polling to
marketing issues facing America s largest companies. We completed our initial public offering in October 1993. Between 1993 and 1997, as part of our strategy to expand internationally, we established our presence in strategic markets
through various acquisitions. In January 1998, we acquired ProTel Marketing, Inc., or ORC ProTel, a telemarketing company based in Lansing, Illinois. At December 31, 2005, we sold all of our membership interest in ORC ProTel, in consideration
for the assumption of all the liabilities of the teleservices business, other than bank debt, and the possibility of receiving payments during the next five years based on the revenues of the teleservices business over a specified threshold
determined annually in accordance with a formula set forth in the sale agreement. As of December 31, 2005, we have not booked any receivable for payments under the sale agreement. In May 1999, we acquired ORC Macro, a research, consulting and
technology company based in the Washington, D.C. area. The acquisition of ORC Macro substantially increased our presence in the public sector. In August 2000, we acquired C/J Research, Inc., and in October 2000, we acquired SHS. The two
acquisitions in 2000 allowed us to expand our service offerings into the areas of consumer research and communications services and to further expand in the area of information management.      We currently have three segments for financial reporting purposes:       

social research;         

U.K. market research; and         

U.S. market research.        While our consolidated revenues
grew from 2003 to 2005, our performance has varied from segment to segment. We have achieved strong performance in our social research segment, which has benefited from the U.S. federal government s increased spending on health-related research
and our success in winning new projects and renewing existing projects. During this period, our U.S. market research segment experienced slower growth as it recovered from weak economic conditions in the U.S. Our U.K. market research segment
experienced stable revenues reflecting weak economic conditions in the U.K. Our former teleservices segment was sold at the end of 2005 as its revenue continued to decline, which resulted in increased losses.      Our operating income grew from 2003 to 2005, reflecting the strong performance in our social research segment and improvement in U.S. market research. In
2003, the loss of revenues in the U.S. market research segment led to the write-off of goodwill, which reduced its operating income by $6.0 million. There were no subsequent goodwill impairments in 2004 and 2005 for the U.S. market research
segment.      Operating income levels in 2003 led to difficulty in complying with our loan agreement covenants and the resulting incurrence of
amendment fees. As a result of a default under our senior credit facility in 2003, we incurred forbearance fees, and refinancing fees. In 2004 we refinanced all of our debt to extend our debt maturities, reduce our borrowing costs and relax certain
financial covenants. In 2005 we also refinanced our previous secured and unsecured subordinated debt. See  Liquidity and Capital Resources   Credit Facilities  below.         
   - 20 -   

Table of Contents  

   The following are important factors that affect our results of operations:       Revenues : We generate our revenues from the hourly billings of professional staff, including part-time staff from call center services, and from
charging our clients for the out-of-pocket costs and subcontracted services incurred for projects. In our market research and social research segments, revenues under fixed-price contracts are recognized on a proportional performance basis. Revenues
under time-and-materials contracts and cost-reimbursement contracts are recognized as costs are incurred. The level of our revenues is affected by government spending patterns, general economic conditions, the competitiveness of our service
offerings in the marketplace, and general market conditions that influence the demand for our specific services and pricing.       Cost of
revenues : All costs directly attributable to a project are included in cost of revenues. These include the salary, benefits and incentive compensation expense for our professional staff and the hourly wages and benefits of our part-time staff
engaged in project work. The cost of our professional staff is relatively fixed over the short-term, and fluctuations in our gross margin may occur due to changes in project margins, the mix of project work that we perform, the level of part-time
labor and other variable costs, and the utilization rates of our staff. In addition, we include project-related telephone expense and out-of-pocket expenses, including travel, and subcontracted services incurred for project work, in cost of
revenues, and the level of these expenditures impacts our gross margin.       Selling, general and administrative expenses : These include
expenses that are not directly related to project performance, including salaries, benefits and incentive compensation for executive management and support services including marketing, information technology, finance, and human resources. Also
included are external expenses including insurance, legal, marketing, and audit, office space, support service expenses, travel and entertainment costs, training costs, directors  fees, and other non-project related expenses.       Goodwill impairment : Our results in 2003 were impacted by goodwill impairment charges for our U.S. market research segment based on the decline in
revenues and earnings for this segment. Our financial results in 2005 for discontinued operations were impacted by goodwill impairment charges in our former teleservices business.       Interest expense : Our results in 2003, 2004 and 2005 were impacted by fees charged by our lenders to renegotiate the terms of our credit
agreements and by the non-cash write-off of unamortized loan fees when we refinanced our credit agreements in 2004 and unamortized loan fees and prepayment penalties incurred in conjunction with our 2005 refinancings. In July 2005, we also
repurchased interests in the Company held by LLR. This transaction was financed with a fixed interest rate, unsecured subordinated loan. This increased interest expense by $1.2 million for the last five months in 2005 and will increase interest
expense by $2.8 million per year through maturity in 2011.       Results of Operations       The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, selected operating data as a percentage of revenue:       
       
   - 21 -   

Table of Contents  

    Comparison of 2004 to 2005        Revenues       Consolidated revenues increased $11.2 million, or 6.3%, from $179.0 million in
2004 to $190.2 million in 2005. Revenues increased $9.6 million, or 7.5%, in our social research business. Revenues increased $1.8 million or 6.9%, in U.S. market research, and increased $372,000, or 1.6%, in U.K. market research. Except for
U.K. market research, where the appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the U.K. pound reduced revenues by $164,000, the increase in revenues in the various operating segments is primarily due to higher demand for services.       Cost of Revenues       Consolidated cost
of revenues increased $7.7 million, or 5.9%, from $130.9 million in 2004 to $138.6 million in 2005 consistent with higher revenues in 2005 resulting from higher demand for our services. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues increased
from 26.9% in 2004 to 27.1% in 2005. For the social research business, cost of revenues increased 10.0% from $93.2 million in 2004 to $102.5 million in 2005 and gross profit as a percentage of revenues declined from 27.3% in 2004 to 25.6%
in 2005 reflecting an increase in the relative proportion of lower margin cost reimbursable projects. In U.S. market research, cost of revenues decreased 8.5% from $21.8 million in 2004 to $20.0 million in 2005 and the gross profit
percentage increased from 16.0% in 2004 to 28.1% in 2005 reflecting increased efficiency and productivity. In addition, in 2004 we experienced a large cost overrun on one particular contract. For U.K. market research, cost of revenues increased 3.2%
from $14.6 million in 2004 to $15.0 million in 2005 due to decreased productivity. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues for the U.K. market research decreased from 36.6% in 2004 to 35.6% in 2005.       Selling, General and Administrative Expense ( SG A )       Consolidated SG A increased $2.3 million, or 6.7%, from $34.5 million in 2004 to $36.8 million in 2005. As a percentage of revenues, consolidated SG A increased from 19.3% in 2004 to 19.4% in 2005.
In 2005, we transferred our phone centers conducting U.S. market research from social research to U.S. market research. For the social research business, SG A decreased slightly by $178,000 or 1%. The decreases in expense from the intercompany
transfer of our phone centers and certain staff were offset by increased SG A expense resulting from an investment in support for government cost reimbursable contracts. As a percentage of revenues, SG A in social research decreased from
15.6% in 2004 to 14.4% in 2005. For U.S. market research, SG A increased from $6.8 million in 2004 to $9.1 million in 2005, and as a percentage of revenue, increased from 26.3% in 2004 to 32.7% in 2005 due to the phone center transfer as
explained above. For U.K. market research, SG A increased $132,000 or 1.8%.       Depreciation and Amortization Expense    
  Consolidated depreciation and amortization expense increased 16.6% from $3.1 million in 2004 to $3.6 million in 2005 as a result of increases in the
related asset base in 2005 in various business units due to our investment in technology, offset by reductions in other business units. As a percentage of revenues, depreciation and amortization expense increased from 1.7% in 2004 to 1.9% in 2005.
      Goodwill Impairment Charge       In October 2004 and October 2005, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board s (the  FASB ) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  ( Statement No. 142 ). The goodwill impairment test requires us to estimate the fair value of our overall business enterprise at the reporting unit level. We estimated fair value using
market comparables and a discounted cash flow analysis. Under the discounted cash flows method, we utilized projected revenue and cash flow forecasts, as well as assumptions of terminal v alue, together with an applicable discount rate, to determine
fair value. We then compared the carrying value of this reporting unit to its fair value.      Based upon the results of these tests we
determined that the estimated fair values of our business segments exceeded their book values. Under the market approach, fair value was determined by comparing our reporting units to similar businesses.         
   - 22 -   

Table of Contents  

   In our former teleservices business we wrote off impaired goodwill of $5.5 million as discussed below
under  Discontinued operations.       Management cannot provide assurance that additional impairment charges in our continuing
operations will not be required in the future.       Interest and Other Non-Operating Expenses, Net       Consolidated interest and other non-operating expenses increased $197,000, or 2.7%, from $7.4 million in 2004 to $7.6 million in 2005. The
increase was due to interest expense from a $20.0 million subordinated debt issue, offset in part with savings from refinancing and debt repayments. Included in 2004 is a $2.5 million refinancing charge and included in 2005 is a refinancing charge
of $1.2 million and a charge of $1.3 million for the write-off of expenses incurred in connection with a discontinued equity offering.       Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes       The consolidated provision for income taxes was $1.6 million for 2004 and
$1.9 million for 2005. The provisions for these years are higher than the amounts that result from applying the federal statutory rate to income before income taxes, due to our not recognizing tax benefits for certain state and non-U.S. losses
as well as increased state taxes from profitable business segments.      At December 31, 2004 we recorded a net valuation allowance of
$2.3 million. At December 31, 2005, we recorded an additional valuation allowance of $660,000, resulting in a net valuation allowance of $3.0 million against state deferred tax assets related to certain subsidiaries because the realization
of these future state tax benefits is not deemed to be more likely than not.       Discontinued Operations       In December 2005 we divested the teleservices business. We also commenced the closure of non-strategic market research operations and these closures are
expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2006. The total income (loss) from discontinued segments was $911,000 in 2004 and $(6.2 million) in 2005. The loss on disposal of segment was $1.1 million in 2005.      The loss from discontinued operations in 2005 is attributable to a goodwill impairment charge for the teleservices business, net of tax benefits, of $3.6
million, a loss on sale of this unit, net of tax of $1.1 million, and operating results for the market research operations that were closed.      In September 2005 we evaluated the goodwill in our former teleservices segment to determine if there was any impairment. The evaluation resulted from deterioration in the performance of this segment. In accordance with Statement
No. 142, we estimated the fair value of our overall business enterprise at the reporting unit level. We estimated fair value using market comparables, a discounted cash flow analysis, as well as a liquidation valuation approach. The results of
these approaches were weighted to determine fair value. Under the market approach, fair value was determined by comparing our reporting units to similar businesses. Under the discounted cash flows method, we utilized projected revenue and cash flow
forecasts, as well as assumptions of terminal value, together with an applicable discount rate, to determine fair value. We then compared the carrying value of the reporting unit to its fair value.      The results of the analysis performed indicated that the recorded book value exceeded its estimated fair value, thus resulting in the write-off of the
remaining goodwill of $5.5 million. Management believes that the decline in the fair value of the former teleservices segment was attributable to deterioration in performance and client concentration.       Net Income (Loss)       As a result of the
foregoing, we incurred net income for 2004 of $2.4 million and a net (loss) for 2005 of $(4.5 million).         
   - 23 -   

Table of Contents  

    Comparison of 2003 to 2004        Revenues       Consolidated revenues increased $17.6 million, or 10.9%, from $161.4 million in
2003 to $179.0 million in 2004. Revenues increased $12.6 million, or 10.9%, in our social research business. Revenues increased $181,000 or 0.7%, in U.S. market research, and increased $2.5 million, or 12.0%, in U.K. market research. For
U.K. market research, the decline of the U.S. dollar relative to the U.K. pound increased revenues by $2.4 million. Except for U.K. market research, where the increase in revenues was due to exchange rate fluctuations, the increase in revenues
in the various operating segments is primarily due to higher demand for services.       Cost of Revenues       Consolidated cost of revenues increased $15.2 million, or 13.2%, from $115.7 million in 2003 to $130.9 million in 2004. Gross profit as a
percentage of revenues declined from 28.3% in 2003 to 26.9% in 2004 due primarily to reduced profitability in the U.S. market research segment. In U.S. market research, cost of revenues increased 16.3% from $18.8 million in 2003 to
$21.8 million in 2004 and the gross profit percentage decreased from 27.3% in 2003 to 16.0% in 2004. The decrease in profitability in the U.S. market research was due to large cost overruns on one particular contract, operational difficulties
in our phone centers and underutilized professional staff. Because cost overruns of the magnitude experienced in 2004 have occurred infrequently in the past and because we have instituted new procedures to identify cost overruns at an earlier stage,
and we believe we have corrected the operational difficulties in our phone centers, we do not expect profitability in the U.S. market research to continue to decrease. We expect that our increased backlog will be performed by presently underutilized
professional staff, resulting in increased revenues and gross profits. For U.K. market research, cost of revenues increased 14.9% from $12.7 million in 2003 to $14.6 million in 2004 primarily due to the decline of the U.S. dollar relative
to the U.K. pound which increased cost of revenues by approximately $1.5 million. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues decreased from 38.2% in 2003 to 36.6% in 2004. For the social research business, cost of revenues increased 9.8% from
$84.9 million in 2003 to $93.2 million in 2004 and gross profit as a percentage of revenues increased from 26.6% in 2003 to 27.3% in 2004.       Selling, General and Administrative Expense       Consolidated SG A increased $342,000, or 1.0%, from
$34.2 million in 2003 to $34.5 million in 2004. As a percentage of revenues, consolidated SG A decreased from 21.2% in 2003 to 19.3% in 2004. The decrease in SG A expenses as a percentage of revenues was principally due to the cost
reduction efforts implemented in U.S. market research, which included headcount reductions and cutbacks in discretionary spending. For the social research business, SG A increased from $17.0 million in 2003 to $20.1 million in 2004,
and as a percentage of revenues, increased from 14.7% in 2003 to 15.7% in 2004. For U.K. market research, the increase in 2004 versus 2003 SG A of $1.0 million, or 16.9%, was principally attributable to exchange rate fluctuations.
      Depreciation and Amortization Expense       Consolidated depreciation and amortization expense declined from $3.3 million in 2003 to $3.1 million in 2004.       Goodwill Impairment Charge       In October 2003, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test in accordance with
Statement No. 142. Based upon the initial results of this test, we determined that the recorded book value of U.S. market research exceeded its fair value, as determined by a weighting of comparable company analyses and discounted cash flow
models. Upon completion of the assessment, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $6.0 million to reduce the carrying value of the goodwill in U.S. market research. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Goodwill and
Other Intangibles,  for additional information.         
   - 24 -   

Table of Contents  

   We believe that the decline in the fair value of our U.S. market research business was attributable to
the following:       

A deterioration in general economic conditions;         

An even greater decline in business to business market research activity; and         

An expectation that recovery would be prolonged.        In
October 2004, as part of our annual impairment test based on Statement No. 142, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test. Based upon the results of this test we determined that the estimated fair values of our business segments
exceeded their book values as determined by a weighting of comparable company analyses and discounted cash flow models.      We cannot provide
assurance that an additional impairment charge will not be required in the future if the U.S. market research business does not recover as projected.       Interest and Other Non-Operating Expenses, Net       Interest and other non-operating expenses increased
$2.4 million, or 47.5%, from $5.0 million in 2003 to $7.4 million in 2004. The increase was principally due to a $2.5 million charge for debt fees, principally the non-cash write-off of unamortized loan fees, related to debt that
was refinanced during the second quarter of 2004.       Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes       The provision for income taxes for 2003 was $609,000 and $1.6 million for 2004. The provisions for these years are higher than the amounts that
result from applying the federal statutory rate to income before income taxes, due to our not recognizing tax benefits for certain state and non-U.S. losses as well as increased state taxes from profitable business segments.      At December 31, 2003 we recorded a net valuation allowance of $1.7 million. At December 31, 2004 we recorded an additional valuation
allowance of $600,000, resulting in a net valuation allowance of $2.3 million against state deferred tax assets related to certain subsidiaries because the realization of these future state tax benefits is not deemed to be more likely than not.
      Discontinued Operations       The (loss) income from discontinued operations was ($5.7 million) in 2003 and $911,000 in 2004. The loss in 2003 is primarily attributable to a goodwill impairment charge for the teleservices business of $10.0 million and $317,000 for the
Korea subsidiary. We believe that the decline in the fair value of the teleservices business was attributable to the following:       

A deterioration in general economic conditions;         

An adverse impact on the outbound telemarketing industry arising from various federal and state regulations, including  do-not-call  and privacy regulations; and

Client concentration.         Net Income (Loss)
      As a result of the foregoing, we incurred a net (loss) for 2003 of $(8.9 million) and net income for 2004 of $2.4 million.
        
   - 25 -   

Table of Contents  

    Liquidity and Capital Resources        Cash Flows       At December 31, 2005, working capital was $18.4 million. Net cash provided by
operating activities of continuing operations for 2004 was $2.9 million as compared to $7.6 million for 2005. For 2004, the net cash provided by operating activities was primarily generated by net income, after adjusting for depreciation
and amortization and other non-cash items, totaling $8.8 million, an increase of $710,000 in accounts payable, a decrease of $2.5 million in accrued expenses and other liabilities, offset by an increase in accounts receivable of
$4.0 million. Growth in accounts receivable was due to the growth in fourth quarter 2004 revenues. Net cash provided by operating activities of discontinued operations was $2.8 million in 2004. For 2005, the net cash provided by operating
activities was primarily generated by net income, after adjusting for depreciation and amortization and other non-cash items, totaling $6.9 million, an increase of $503,000 in accounts payable; a $3.4 million increase in accrued expenses and other
liabilities; an increase in accounts receivable of $3.6 million; and a $500,000 decrease in other assets. Net cash provided by operating activities of discontinued operations was $1.5 million in 2005.      Investing activities from continuing operations for 2004 consisted of capital expenditures of $3.1 million. Investing activities from continuing
operations for 2005 consisted of capital expenditures of $3.8 million. The majority of the spending on capital items was for the replacement of technology. Capital expenditures incurred in the discontinued operations totaled $1.2 million and
$224,000 in 2004 and 2005, respectively.      In 2004, financing activities included a net reduction in borrowings totaling $2.6 million,
payment of loan fees of $1.9 million, proceeds from the sale of our common stock under our various stock purchase plans and the exercises of stock options totaling $892,000, and repayments of our capital leases of $184,000. In 2005, financing
activities included a net increase in borrowings totaling $15.5 million, due primarily to the issuance of $20.0 million of unsecured subordinated debt, net of loan repayments during 2005, used to finance the reacquisition of interests in the
company held by LLR plus transaction costs of $414,000. Other financing activities included proceeds from the sale of our common stock under our various stock purchase plans and the exercises of stock options totaling $817,000 and repayments of our
capital leases of $201,000       Credit Facilities       In May 2004, we entered into a secured revolving credit facility of $35.0 million with Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania and First Horizon Bank (the  Senior Revolving Facility ). The Senior Revolving Facility is
for a three-year term and is secured by substantially all of our assets. The Senior Revolving Facility carries an interest rate at our discretion of either the financial institution s designated base rate (5.25% and 7.25% at December 31,
2004 and December 31, 2005, respectively) plus 100 basis points or LIBOR (3-month LIBOR was 2.56% and 4.54% at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, respectively) plus 300 basis points. As of December 31, 2005, we had
approximately $9.4 million of additional credit available under the Senior Revolving Facility.      In March 2005, we entered into a new
secured term loan of $15.0 million with Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania and First Horizon Bank (the  Term Loan ). The Term Loan is for a five-year term and is secured by substantially all of our assets. The Term Loan carries an interest rate
of LIBOR plus 350 basis points, requires principal payments of $750,000 per quarter and matures in 2010. The proceeds from the Term Loan and a drawdown from the Senior Revolving Facility were used to prepay the secured and unsecured subordinated
notes in the combined amount of $20.5 million. We wrote-off unamortized fees in the amount of $813,000 and incurred prepayment penalties in the amount of $362,000 in connection with this transaction in the first quarter of 2005.      In July 2005, we issued $20.0 million of unsecured subordinated notes to The Royal Bank of Scotland. These notes mature in July 2011, carry cash interest
of 14% per year and have no interim principal amortization. The proceeds from the issuance of these unsecured subordinated notes were used to finance the repurchase of interests in the Company held by LLR Equity Partners, L.P. and LLR Equity
Partners Parallel, L.P. The transaction consisted of (i) the repurchase of 1,176,458 common shares purchased by LLR on September 1, 2000; (ii) a warrant to purchase 740,500 common shares; (iii) rights to convert the common shares
into preferred shares with an annual dividend obligation of $1.2 million; (iv) anti-dilution rights and warrants; and (v) other rights. The transaction resulted in a $9.9 million decrease in income from continuing operations available to
common shareholders.         
   - 26 -   

Table of Contents  

   We are required to maintain certain financial covenants under our credit facilities, such as minimum
earnings, debt-to-earnings, interest coverage, and other financial ratios. In addition, covenants under our credit facilities limit or prohibit our ability to incur additional debt, prepay specified types of indebtedness, pay dividends, make
investments, sell assets, or engage in mergers and acquisitions.      We paid interest of $4.5 million, $5.1 million and $4.6 million for the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2004, and 2005, respectively. Interest expense for 2004 and 2005 included the write-off of unamortized loan fees of approximately $2.5 million and $813,000, respectively, and $362,000 in prepayment penalties due
to the refinancing of the credit facilities in the first quarter of 2005.      In September 2005, we entered into an interest rate cap
agreement with Citizens Bank to hedge our interest rate risk exposure on the Term Loan due to its variable interest rate. The interest rate cap qualified as a cash flow hedge pursuant to FASB Statement No. 133,  Accounting for Derivatives
Instruments and Hedging Activities . The interest rate cap is set at a LIBOR rate of 4.5%, has a remaining life matching the Term Loan, is based upon a notional amount of $13.5 million, and was purchased for a premium of $106,000. Changes in
value of the interest rate cap will be reported as a component of Other Comprehensive Income and reclassified into earnings, as interest income, in the same period or periods during which the interest rate on the Term Loan exceeds 4.5%. For the year
ended December 31, 2005, the value of the interest rate cap increased $18,000 (before taxes) and $12,000 (after taxes). Such amount was reflected in Other Comprehensive Income. No amounts were reclassified into earnings for the period ending
December 31, 2005.       Capital Expenditures       We currently have no material capital expenditure commitments and no acquisition-related commitments. We believe that our current sources of liquidity and capital will be sufficient to fund our long-term obligations
and working capital needs until May 2007, the time at which our revolving credit facility matures.       Contractual Obligations       The following table represents our contractual obligations at December 31, 2005:       
    As of December 31, 2005, long-term debt obligations reflected in the table above includes
expected interest payments on the Senior Revolving Facility and the unsecured subordinated debt. The annual interest on the Senior Revolving Facility is estimated based on LIBOR plus 300 basis points, which totaled 7.54% as of December 31,
2005, and the prime interest rate plus 100 basis points, which totaled 8.25% as of December 31, 2005 based on an estimated apportionment of the outstandings between the two interest rate options. The annual interest on the unsecured
subordinated debt is fixed at 14%.         
   - 27 -   

Table of Contents  

    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates       Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues
and expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates, and the estimates will change under different assumptions or
conditions.      We believe that the implementation of the following critical accounting policies, used in the preparation of our consolidated
financial statements, introduces the most significant levels of judgments and estimates.       Revenue Recognition       Service revenue is recognized when earned, generally as work is performed in accordance with the provisions of the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 104,  Revenue Recognition.  Services performed vary from contract to contract and are not uniformly performed over the term of the arrangement. In our market research and social research segments, revenues under fixed-price
contracts are recognized on a proportional performance basis. Performance is based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs where the costs incurred represent a reasonable surrogate for output measures of contract performance,
including survey design, data collection, survey analysis and presentation of deliverables to the client. Progress on a contract is matched against project costs and costs to complete on a periodic basis. Provision for estimated contract losses, if
any, is made in the period such losses are determined. Customers are obligated to pay as services are performed, and in the event that a client cancels the contract, the client is responsible for payment for services performed through the date of
cancellation.      Revenues under cost-reimbursement contracts are recognized as costs are incurred. Applicable estimated profits are included
in earnings in the proportion that incurred costs bear to total estimated costs. Incentives, award fees or penalties related to performance are also considered in estimating revenues and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. See
 Item 1, Business-Government Contracts  for a discussion of the types of contracts we have with the U.S. federal government.      Revenues under time-and-materials contracts are recognized as costs are incurred. Invoices to clients are generated in accordance with the terms of the applicable contract, which may not be directly related to the performance of services.
Unbilled receivables are invoiced based upon the achievement of specific events as defined by each contract including deliverables, timetables and incurrence of certain costs. Unbilled receivables are classified as a current asset.      Advanced billings to clients in excess of revenue earned are recorded as deferred revenues until the revenue recognition criteria are met. We grant
credit primarily to large companies and government agencies and perform periodic credit evaluations of our clients  financial condition. We do not generally require collateral. Credit losses relating to clients generally have been within
management s expectations. Reimbursements of out of pocket expenses are included in revenues with corresponding costs incurred by us included in cost of revenues.       Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets       We have significant intangible assets related to goodwill. In
assessing the recoverability of our goodwill and other identifiable intangibles, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors, such as trading and transaction multiples, and for other identifiable assets,
valuation estimates for items such as backlog and outstanding proposals, to determine the fair value of the respective assets. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for
these assets. On January 1, 2002, we adopted Statement No. 142, which requires us to analyze our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis.         
   - 28 -   

Table of Contents  

   In accordance with Statement No. 142, Goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful
lives are no longer amortized to expense. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if certain indicators arise, using the guidance specifically provided. Furthermore, Statement No. 142 requires
purchased intangible assets other than goodwill to be amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be indefinite.      Management reviews goodwill and other intangible assets at least annually, and on an interim basis when conditions require, to evaluate events or changes in circumstances that may indicate impairment in the carrying amount of such assets.
We use comparable company analyses and discounted cash flow models to determine the fair value of our reporting units and whether any impairment of goodwill exists. An impairment loss is recognized in the income statement in the period that the
related asset is deemed to be impaired.      Other intangible assets with definite lives are amortized to expense, straight-line over their
respective estimated useful lives.       Deferred Tax and Valuation Allowance       Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the temporary differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and
liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the temporary differences are expected to reverse. Recognition of deferred tax assets is limited to amounts considered to be more likely than
not to be realized in future periods.      At December 31, 2005 we had net deferred tax assets of $8.2 million before the application
of a $3.0 million valuation allowance. Of this amount, $2.7 million is made up of state deferred tax assets of subsidiaries that have not been profitable. We recognize that it is not more likely than not that the future tax benefits of these
assets will be realized. Accordingly, we have recorded a $3.0 million valuation allowance against these assets. We believe that all of the deferred tax assets for federal and non-U.S. income tax purposes will be fully realized. In order to
fully realize these tax assets, we must have pre-tax earnings in the U.S. of $13.5 million.       Discontinued Operations
      During 2005 we sold our teleservices business, which was previously identified as a reportable segment, and announced the closure of
our market research operations in South Korea and Mexico. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 144  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,  the above segment
and operations were classified as discontinued operations in 2005 and the financial results are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Our future financial presentation for segment reporting will be impacted by the
reallocation of certain charges.         
   - 29 -   

Table of Contents  

    Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment.  Statement 123(R) requires that the compensation cost relating to share-based
payment transactions be recognized in financial statements. The cost will be measured based on the fair value of the instruments issued. Statement 123(R) covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements including share options,
restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation rights and employee share purchase plans. Statement 123(R) replaces Statement 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, and supersedes Opinion 25, Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees. As originally issued in 1995, Statement 123 established as preferable the fair-value-based method of accounting for share-based payment transactions with employees. However, that Statement permitted entities the option of continuing to
apply the guidance in Opinion 25, as long as the footnotes to the financial statements disclosed what net income would have been had the preferable fair-value-based method been used.      In April 2005, the SEC issued Release 2005-57, which allowed companies to implement Statement No. 123(R) at the beginning of their next fiscal year,
instead of the next reporting period as disclosed in the original Statement No. 123(R) release in December 2004.      We adopted Statement
123(R) on January 1, 2006, using the modified prospective method, whereby we will apply Statement 123(R) to new and modified awards beginning January 1, 2006. Additionally, we will be required to recognize compensation cost as expense for
the portion of outstanding unvested awards, based on the grant-date fair value of those awards calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model under Statement 123 for pro forma disclosures. The effect of adopting Statement 123(R) is
estimated to result in approximately $705,000 of share based compensation expense in 2006.      In May 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board ( FASB ) issued Statement No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Correction-a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.  This Statement changes the requirements for the accounting for and
reporting of a change in accounting principle and applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle. It also applies to changes required by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific
transition provisions.      Statement No. 154 defines retrospective application as the application of a different accounting principle to
prior accounting periods as if that principle had always been used or as the adjustment of previously issued financial statements to reflect a change in the reporting entity. This Statement also redefines restatement as the revising of previously
issued financial statements to reflect the correction of an error.      Statement No. 154 requires that retrospective application of a
change in accounting principle be limited to the direct effects of the change. Indirect effects of a change in accounting principle should be recognized in the period of the accounting change. Statement No. 154 also requires that a change in
depreciation, amortization, or depletion method for long-lived, nonfinancial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate effected by a change in accounting principle.      Statement No. 154 became effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We
have adopted Statement No. 154 and will apply the provisions of this Statement if we encounter any circumstances that require the application of this standard.       Inflation and Foreign Currency Exchange       Inflation has not had a significant impact on our operating
results to date, nor do we expect it to have a significant impact through 2006. Foreign currency exchange fluctuations did not have a material impact on our operating results from 2003 to 2005. It has not been our practice to enter into foreign
exchange contracts, but such contracts may be used in the future if we deem them to be an appropriate resource to manage our exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates.         
   - 30 -   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.   
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk          Market risks relating to our operations result primarily from changes in interest rates and changes in foreign exchange rates. We monitor interest rate and foreign exchange rate exposures on an ongoing basis. We have
in the past entered into interest rate hedging contracts and will continue to evaluate their appropriateness.      It has not been our practice
to enter into foreign exchange contracts, but we may use such contracts in the future if we deem them to be an appropriate resource to manage our exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We do not consider our current foreign
exchange exposure, which is primarily related to changes between the U.S. dollar and the U.K. pound, to be material. Although the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates may be significant on our revenues, cost of revenues and operating expenses
when considered individually, the net impact on our results of operations has not been significant.      The following table provides
information about the financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2005 by expected maturity
dates.       
    Presently the impact of a 25 and 50 basis points increase in interest rates on our variable debt
(using the average debt balances during the year ended December 31, 2005 and interest rates at December 31, 2005) would not have a material impact on the Company s results of operations for 2006.         
   - 31 -   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data          Our financial statements, together with the report of our independent registered public accounting firm, are presented beginning at page F-1 at the end of this Report.       

Item 9.   
    Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure          The information required by Item 304 of Regulation S-K will be contained in the Company s 2006 Proxy Statement, to be filed with the SEC within 120
days following the end of the Company s fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and is hereby incorporated by reference thereto.       

Item 9A.   
    Controls and Procedures          Our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, with the assistance of management, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
 Exchange Act ) as of the end of the period covered by this report (the  Evaluation Date ). Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the Evaluation Date, our
disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and
Exchange Commission s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosures.      There has not been any change in our internal control over financial reporting during our quarter ended December 31,
2005 that has significantly affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.       

Item 9B.   
    Other Information          None.       PART III        

Item 10.   
    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant          Except as set forth under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information required by this item, including information with respect to directors, audit committee and
audit committee financial experts of the Company and Section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance, will be contained in the Company s definitive Proxy Statement with respect to the Company s Annual Meeting of Stockholders
for 2006 ( 2006 Proxy Statement ), to be filed with the SEC within 120 days following the end of the Company s fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and is hereby incorporated by reference thereto.      We have adopted a Code of Conduct that applies to our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial
officer, principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions. Our Code of Conduct is located on our website at www.opinionresearch.com. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 10 of Form 8-K
regarding an amendment or waiver from a provision of the Code of Conduct, if any, that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions and
that relates to certain topics by posting such information on our website at www.opinionresearch.com. Any shareholder may request this information in print form from the Company s Secretary at 600 College Road East, Suite 4100, Princeton,
NJ 08540.       

Item 11.   
    Executive Compensation          The information
required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K will be contained in the Company s 2006 Proxy Statement, to be filed with the SEC within 120 days following the end of the Company s fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and is hereby
incorporated by reference thereto.         
   - 32 -   

Table of Contents  

Item 12.   
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters          The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K will be contained in the Company s 2006 Proxy Statement, to be filed with the SEC within
120 days following the end of the Company s fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and is incorporated by reference thereto.      The
following table provides information as of December 31, 2005 with respect to compensation plans (including individual compensation arrangements) under which the Company s equity securities are authorized for issuance.      Equity Compensation Plan Information       

Plan Category    
      
   Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding
options, warrants and rights   

Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options   
      
   Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity
compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a))   

(a)   

(b)   
      
   (c)   

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders   
      
  800,178  

$  
  6.62  
      
  1,218,918        
     (1)      

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders   
      
  190,000        
     (2)     
     
  $  
  7.06  

(1)   
  Amount includes shares reserved for issuance under 1997 Stock Incentive Plan, Opinion Research Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan, Opinion Research Corporation Stock Purchase
Plan for Non-employee Directors and Designated Employees and Consultants, and the ORC Holdings, Ltd. Employee Share Ownership Plan.         

Item 13.   
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions          The information required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K will be contained in the Company s 2006 Proxy Statement, to be filed with the SEC within 120 days following the end of the Company s fiscal year ended December 31,
2005, and is hereby incorporated by reference thereto.       

Item 14.   
    Principal Accountant Fees and Services          The
information required by Item 9(e) of Schedule 14A will be contained in the Company s 2006 Proxy Statement, to be filed with the SEC within 120 days following the end of the Company s fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and is
incorporated by reference thereto.         
   - 33 -   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV        

Item 15.   
    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules           

(a)  
  The following documents are filed as part of this report.         

Exhibit No.   

3.1  
     
  Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1
(No. 33- 68428) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 3, 1993 (the  Form S-1 ).   

3.2  
     
  Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Registrant - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Form S-1.   

4.1  
     
  Rights Agreement, dated September 13, 1996, between the Registrant and StockTrans, Inc. - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant s Registration Statement
on Form 8-A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 27, 1996.   

4.2  
     
  Amendment to Rights Agreement dated August 8, 1998 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1998 (the  1998 10-K ).   

4.3  
     
  Amendment No. 2 to Rights Agreement dated September 1, 2001 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on September 15, 2000 (the  2000 8-K ).   

4.4  
     
  Opinion Research Corporation Designation of Series A Preferred Stock - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Registrant s Form 8-A filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on September 27, 1996.   
       
   - 34 -   

Table of Contents  

- 35 -   

Table of Contents  

10.15  
      
  Business Loan and Security Agreement dated May 4, 2004 among Opinion Research Corporation, ORC Inc., Macro International Inc., ORC Protel, Inc., Social and Health Services, Ltd., ORC
Holdings, Ltd., O.R.C. International Ltd and Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania and First Horizon Bank - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 (the
 June 30, 2004 10-Q ).   

10.16  
      
  Registration Rights Agreement dated May 26, 1999 among Opinion Research Corporation, Allied Capital Corporation and Allied Investment Corporation   Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.9 to the 1999 10-Q.   

10.17  
      
  Amendment No. 2 to the Registration Rights Agreement dated September 1, 2000 among Opinion Research Corporation, Allied Capital Corporation and Allied Investment Corporation -
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the 2000 8-K.   

10.18  
      
  Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Rights Agreement dated September 1, 2000 among Opinion Research Corporation, Allied Capital Corporation and Allied Investment Corporation -
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the 2000 8-K.   

10.19  
      
  Common Stock Warrant Issued by Opinion Research Corporation to Allied Capital Corporation dated May 26, 1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the 1999
10-Q.   

10.20  
      
  Amendment to Common Stock Purchase Warrant No. A-1 dated May 4, 2004 between Opinion Research Corporation and Allied Capital Corporation - Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.4 to the June 30, 2004 10-Q.   

10.21  
      
  Common Stock Warrant Issued by Opinion Research Corporation to Allied Investment Corporation dated May 26, 1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the 1999
10-Q.   

10.22  
      
  Amendment To Common Stock Purchase Warrant No. A-2 dated May 4, 2004 between Opinion Research Corporation and Allied Capital Corporation - Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.5 to the June 30, 2004 10-Q.   

10.23  
      
  First Modification to Business Loan and Security Agreement and Other Loan Documents dated March 15, 2005 by and among Opinion Research Corporation, Macro International Inc., ORC Protel,
LLC, Social and Health Services, Ltd., ORC Holdings, Ltd., O.R.C. International Ltd. and Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania and First Horizon Bank - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2004.   

10.24  
      
  Second Modification to Business Loan Agreement and Security Agreement dated July 29, 2005 by and among Opinion Research Corporation, Macro International Inc., ORC Protel, LLC, Social and
Health Services, Ltd., ORC Holdings, Ltd., ORC International Ltd., Citizens  Bank and First Horizon Bank - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on August 2, 2005.   

10.25  
      
  Third Modification to Business Loan and Security Agreement dated November 30, 2005 by and among Opinion Research Corporation, Macro International Inc., ORC ProTel, LLC, Social and Health
Services, Ltd., ORC Holdings, Ltd., ORC International Ltd., Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania and First Horizon Bank.*   

10.26  
      
  Fourth Modification to Business Loan Agreement and Security Agreement dated January 18, 2006 by and among Opinion Research Corporation, Macro International Inc., Social and Health
Services, Ltd., ORC Holdings, Ltd., ORC International Ltd., Citizens  Bank and First Horizon Bank.*   
       
   - 36 -   

Table of Contents  

10.27  
      
  Purchase Agreement dated March 25, 2005 by and among Opinion Research Corporation, LLR Equity Partners L.P. and LLR Equity Partners Parallel, L.P. - Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.37 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.   

10.28  
      
  First Amendment to Purchase Agreement dated May 6, 2005 by and among Opinion Research Corporation, LLR Equity Partners, L.P. and LLR Equity Partners Parallel, L.P. - Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2005.   

10.29  
      
  Purchase Agreement dated July 29, 2005 by and among Opinion Research Corporation, LLR Equity Partners, L.P. and LLR Equity Partners Parallel, L.P. - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 2, 2005.   

10.30  
      
  Note Purchase Agreement by and among Opinion Research Corporation, Macro International Inc., ORC Protel, LLC, Social and Health Services, Ltd., ORC Holdings, Ltd., ORC International Ltd. and
The Royal Bank Of Scotland - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 2, 2005.   

10.31  
      
  First Amendment to Senior Subordinated Note Purchase Agreement dated January 18, 2006 by and among Opinion Research Corporation, Macro International Inc., Social and Health Services,
Ltd., ORC Holdings, Ltd., ORC International Ltd., and The Royal Bank Of Scotland.*   

16.1  
      
  Letter from Ernst   Young LLP to Securities and Exchange Commission - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 16 of the Registrant s current report on Form 8-K filed
August 13, 2004.   

21.1  
      
  Subsidiaries of the Registrant.*   

23.1  
      
  Consent of Grant Thornton LLP.*   

23.2  
      
  Consent of Ernst  Young LLP.*   

31.1  
      
  Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.*   

31.2  
      
  Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.*   

32.1  
      
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.*   

32.2  
      
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18.U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.*   

*  
  Filed herewith.           
   - 37 -   

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION   

By:     
     
  /s/ John F. Short   

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below on March 30, 2006 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated.       

/s/ John F. Short     John F. Short   
      
  Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and Director (Principal Executive Officer)   

/s/ Douglas L. Cox     Douglas L. Cox   
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)   

/s/ Dale J. Florio     Dale J. Florio   
      
  Director   

/s/ Brian J. Geiger     Brian J. Geiger   
      
  Director   

/s/ Steven F. Ladin     Steven F. Ladin   
      
  Director   

/s/ Robert D. LeBlanc     Robert D. LeBlanc   
      
  Director   

/s/ Frank J. Quirk     Frank J. Quirk   
      
  Director   
       
   - 38 -   

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Stockholders      of Opinion Research Corporation      We have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of Opinion Research Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for the years then ended. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal
control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Opinion Research Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.      Our audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole. The financial schedule (Schedule II-Valuation and Qualifying Accounts) for the years
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, listed in Item 15 of the 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, is presented for purposes of additional analysis and is not a required part of the basic consolidated financial statements. This schedule has been
subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic consolidated financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
     /s/ Grant Thornton LLP      Philadelphia, Pennsylvania      March   30, 2006         
   F-1   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Stockholders      of Opinion Research Corporation
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity and cash flows of Opinion Research Corporation and
Subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2003. Our audit also included the financial statement schedule for the year ended December 31, 2003 listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for
designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated results of operations and cash flows of Opinion Research Corporation and Subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2003 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule for the year ended December 31, 2003 when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.      /s/ ERNST   YOUNG
LLP      MetroPark, New Jersey      March   30, 2006   
     
   F-2   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Consolidated Balance Sheets        (in thousands, except share amounts)        
    See notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   F-3   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES        Consolidated Statements of Operations        (in thousands, except share and per share amounts)        
    See notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   F-4   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity
       (in thousands)        
    See notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   F-5   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        (in thousands)        
    See notes to consolidated financial statements         
   F-6   

Table of Contents  

   OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        

1.   
   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies          Nature of Operations, Principles of Consolidation, and Basis of Presentation       We were established in 1938 to apply the
principles of general public opinion polling to marketing issues facing America s largest companies. We evolved to provide social research, market research, information services, and marketing services. We perform public sector primary research
and provide information technology, communications, and other consulting services, primarily to agencies of the United States federal government and state and local governments. We also assist our commercial clients in the evaluation, monitoring and
optimization of their marketing and sales efforts, addressing issues such as customer loyalty and retention, market demand and forecasting, and corporate image and competitive positioning. The majority of our governmental projects are in the areas
of health, education and international aid.      The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our company and our wholly owned
subsidiaries. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ). All inter-company transactions are eliminated upon consolidation.
     During 2005 we sold our teleservices business, which was previously identified as a reportable segment, and announced the closure of our
market research operations in South Korea and Mexico. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 144  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,  the above segment and
operations were classified as discontinued operations in 2005 and the financial results are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of the discontinued operations in South Korea and Mexico are also
presented separately as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2004 and 2005.      In Note 2, Goodwill and Other Intangibles Assets, the intangible asset balances as of December 31, 2004 have been adjusted to eliminate fully amortized intangibles to conform with the 2005 financial statement
presentation.       Use of Estimates       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates include those related to revenue recognition, valuation allowances, and goodwill impairment. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.       Revenue Recognition       Service revenue is recognized when earned, generally as work is performed in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Commission s ( SEC ) Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104,
 Revenue Recognition.  Services performed vary from contract to contract and are not uniformly performed over the term of the arrangement. In our market research and social research segments, revenues under fixed-price contracts are
recognized on a proportional performance basis. Performance is based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs where the costs incurred represent a reasonable surrogate for output measures of contract performance, including survey
design, data collection, survey analysis and presentation of deliverables to the client. Progress on a contract is matched against project costs and costs to complete on a periodic basis. Provision for estimated contract losses, if any, is made in
the period such losses are determined. Customers are obligated to pay as services are performed, and in  
       
   F-7   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        

1.   
   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)            
  
 the event that a client cancels the contract, the client is responsible for payment for services performed through the date of cancellation.      Revenues under cost-reimbursement contracts are recognized as costs are incurred. Applicable estimated profits are included in earnings in the proportion
that incurred costs bear to total estimated costs. Incentives, award fees or penalties related to performance are also considered in estimating revenues and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. See  Item 1, Business-Government
Contracts  for a discussion of the types of contracts we have with the U.S. federal government.      Revenues under time-and-materials
contracts are recognized as costs are incurred. Invoices to clients are generated in accordance with the terms of the applicable contract, which may not be directly related to the performance of services. Unbilled receivables are invoiced based upon
the achievement of specific events as defined by each contract including deliverables, timetables and incurrence of certain costs. Unbilled receivables are classified as a current asset.      Advanced billings to clients in excess of revenue earned are recorded as deferred revenues until the revenue recognition criteria are met. We grant credit
primarily to large companies and government agencies and perform periodic credit evaluations of our clients  financial condition. We do not generally require collateral. Credit losses relating to clients generally have been within
management s expectations. Reimbursements of out of pocket expenses are included in revenues with corresponding costs incurred by us included in cost of revenues.       Cash Equivalents       We consider as cash equivalents all highly liquid debt instruments with a maturity
of three months or less when purchased.       Property and Equipment       Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets
(3-10 years). Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives or the remaining life of the lease, whichever is shorter.       Impairment of Long-Lived Assets       We
record impairment losses on long-lived assets used in operations when events and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Determination of recoverability of long-lived assets is based on an estimate of
undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use and eventual disposition of the assets. Measurement of an impairment loss for long-lived assets that management expects to hold and use is based on the fair value of the asset. Long-lived assets
to be disposed of are reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.       Foreign Currency Translation
      All assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the balance
sheet date and revenues and expenses are translated using an average exchange rate during the period. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income and are accumulated in stockholders  equity.
Because cumulative translation adjustments are considered a component of permanently invested, unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the United States, no taxes are provided on such amounts.         
   F-8   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

1.   
   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)            
    Stock-Based Compensation       As permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, 
( Statement No. 123 ) we have elected to follow Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  and related interpretations in accounting for our employee option
plans.      We also adopted the disclosure-only provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,  Stock-Based
Compensation  and Statement 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   Transition and Disclosure , which was released in December 2002 as an amendment of Statement 123.      Under APB No. 25, no compensation expense was recognized at the time of the option grant if the exercise price of the employee stock option was fixed
and was at least equal to or greater than the fair market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant and the number of shares to be issued pursuant to the exercise of such options were known and fixed at the grant date.      If we had elected to recognize compensation expense based upon the fair value of the options granted at grant date as prescribed by Statement
No. 123, net income (loss) and related per share amounts would have been adjusted to the pro forma amounts indicated in the table below:       
       
   F-9   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

1.   
   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)          Stock-Based Compensation (continued)          
   The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option
pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:       
    The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2003, 2004 and 2005 was $3.02, $3.57 and
$2.85 per share, respectively.      On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB )
Statement No. 123(revised 2004), (Statement 123(R)),  Share-Based Payment , using the modified prospective method, whereby we will apply Statement 123(R) to new and modified awards beginning January 1, 2006. We will therefore be
required to recognize compensation expense for the portion of outstanding unvested awards, based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. The future impact is dependent upon if and when additional options are granted, estimated forfeitures, and
the vesting period of the options. The effect of adopting Statement 123(R) is estimated to result in approximately $705,000 of share based compensation expense in 2006.       Income Taxes       Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the temporary differences
between financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the temporary differences are expected to reverse. Recognition of deferred tax assets is
limited to amounts considered by management to be more likely than not to be realized in future periods.       Computer Software
      In accordance with Statement of Position 98-1 ( SOP 98-1 ),  Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or
Obtained for Internal Use  issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, we have capitalized certain internal and external costs incurred to acquire or create internal use software. Capitalized costs are amortized over five
years.       Comprehensive Income (Loss)       Comprehensive income (loss) consists of two components, net income (loss) and other comprehensive income (loss). Other comprehensive income (loss) refers to revenues, expenses and gains and losses that, under
generally accepted accounting principles, are recorded as an element of stockholders  equity but are excluded from net income (loss). Our other comprehensive income (loss) is comprised of foreign currency translation adjustments from those
subsidiaries not using the U.S. dollar as their functional currency and changes in the value of derivatives used to hedge variable interest rates on our Term Loan. Total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is displayed as a separate
component of stockholders  equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.         
   F-10   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

1.   
   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)            
    Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets       In accordance with Statement No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful
lives are no longer amortized to expense. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if certain indicators arise, using the guidance specifically provided. Furthermore, Statement No. 142 requires
purchased intangible assets other than goodwill to be amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be indefinite.      Management reviews goodwill and other intangible assets at least annually, and on an interim basis when conditions require, to evaluate events or changes in circumstances that may indicate impairment in the carrying amount of such assets.
We use comparable company analyses and discounted cash flow models to determine the fair value of our reporting units and whether any impairment of goodwill exists. An impairment loss is recognized in the income statement in the period that the
related asset is deemed to be impaired.      Other intangible assets with definite lives are amortized to expense, straight-line over their
respective estimated useful lives.       Earnings Per Share       Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated in accordance with Statement No. 128,  Earnings per Share.  Basic earnings per share excludes dilution and is computed by dividing income (loss) from
continuing operations available to common shareholders by the weighted average common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share takes into account the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to
issue common stock were exercised and converted into common stock.       Financial Instruments       Our carrying value of financial instruments approximates fair value because of the nature and characteristic of our financial instruments.      We entered into an interest rate cap agreement to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. The interest rate cap qualified as a cash flow hedge
pursuant to FASB Statement No. 133,  Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and Hedging Activities.  Interest rate differentials to be received as a result of the interest rate on the related debt instrument exceeding the interest
rate cap are accounted for by recording the interest received against the interest expense. Any changes in its fair value, net of income taxes, are recorded as a change in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income and are not reflected in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.      We do not have derivative procedures in place to manage risks related to foreign currency
fluctuations for our foreign operations.         
   F-11   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

1.   
   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)            
    Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement 123(R). Statement 123(R) requires that the compensation cost relating
to share-based payment transactions be recognized in financial statements. The cost will be measured based on the fair value of the instruments issued. Statement 123(R) covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements including share
options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation rights, and employee share purchase plans. Statement 123(R) replaces Statement 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  and supersedes Accounting
Principles Board Opinion 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.  As originally issued in 1995, Statement 123 established, as preferable, the fair-value-based method of accounting for share-based payment transactions with employees.
However, that Statement permitted entities the option of continuing to apply the guidance in Opinion 25, as long as the footnotes to the financial statements disclosed what net income would have been had the preferable fair-value-based method been
used.      In April 2005, the SEC issued Release 2005-57, which allowed companies to implement Statement No. 123(R) at the beginning of
their next fiscal year, instead of the next reporting period as disclosed in the original Statement No. 123(R) release in December 2004.      On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statement 123(R), using the modified prospective method, whereby we will apply Statement 123(R) to new and modified awards beginning January 1, 2006. Additionally, we will be required to
recognize compensation cost as expense for the portion of outstanding unvested awards, based on the grant-date fair value of those awards calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model under Statement 123 for pro forma disclosures. The
effect of adopting Statement 123(R) is estimated to result in approximately $705,000 of share based compensation expense in 2006.      In May
2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Correction-a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.  This Statement changes the
requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle and applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle. It also applies to changes required by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the
pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions.      Statement No. 154 defines retrospective application as the application
of a different accounting principle to prior accounting periods as if that principle had always been used or as the adjustment of previously issued financial statements to reflect a change in the reporting entity. This Statement also redefines
restatement as the revising of previously issued financial statements to reflect the correction of an error.      Statement No. 154
requires that retrospective application of a change in accounting principle be limited to the direct effects of the change. Indirect effects of a change in accounting principle should be recognized in the period of the accounting change. Statement
No. 154 also requires that a change in depreciation, amortization, or depletion method for long-lived, nonfinancial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate effected by a change in accounting principle.      Statement No. 154 became effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We
have adopted Statement No. 154 and will apply the provisions of this Statement if we encounter any circumstances that require the application of this standard.         
   F-12   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)          

2.   
   Discontinued Operations         In December 2005 we
entered into an agreement to sell the Company s teleservices business, which was effective as of December 31, 2005, for the assumption of all the liabilities of the teleservices business, other than bank debt, and the possibility of
receiving payments during the next five years based on its revenues over a specified threshold determined annually in accordance with a formula set forth in the sale agreement. As of December 31, 2005 we have not booked any receivable for
payments under the sale agreement. Additionally, we announced the closure of our market research operations in South Korea and Mexico.      In
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 144  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,  the above segment and operations were classified as discontinued operations in
2005 and the financial results are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.      The financial results of teleservices
business and market research operations in South Korea and Mexico included in discontinued operations are as follows:       

1  
  Includes non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in 2003 of $10.0 million and $317,000 in the former teleservice business and Korean market research subsidiary respectively;
and $5.5 million recorded in the former teleservice business in 2005.        The assets and liabilities of the discontinued
operations in South Korea and Mexico are also presented separately as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2004 and 2005.       

3.   
   Goodwill and Other Intangibles         As discussed in
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Statement No. 142 goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives are no longer amortized. Instead, Statement No. 142 requires such assets to be reviewed for
impairment annually, or more frequently if certain indicators arise, using the guidance specifically provided.      In the fourth quarter of
2003, we recorded non-cash impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of goodwill in the amount of $6.0 million in U.S. market research.         
   F-13   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

3.   
   Goodwill and Other Intangibles (continued)            
   In October 2004 and 2005, we performed our goodwill impairment test based on Statement No. 142.
Based upon the results of such tests we determined that the estimated fair values of our U.S. market research, U.K. market research and social research segments exceeded their book values as determined by a weighting of comparable company analyses
and discounted cash flow models.      Management cannot provide assurance that additional impairment charges will not be required in the future
if these segments do not achieve their future projections.      The changes in the carrying value of goodwill are as follows:       
    Our intangible assets consist of the following:       
    Amortization expense for other intangibles for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and
2005 was $523,000, $307,000 and $171,000, respectively. The estimated aggregate amortization expense for each of the five succeeding years is as follows:       
       
   F-14   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

4.   
   Accounts Receivable            
   Accounts receivable consist of the following:       
    The unbilled receivables at December 31, 2004 and 2005 included $1.1 million and $832,000,
respectively, of retainage under terms of the contracts which can only be invoiced upon completion of federal government indirect cost audits. We do not anticipate the collection of any of the retainage recorded at December 31, 2005 during
2006, but such amounts are classified as current assets in accordance with industry standards. One client in our social research business constituted 18% and 16% of net billed receivables at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005,
respectively.       

5.   
   Property and Equipment         Property and equipment
consists of the following:       
    Depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 was $2.7 million,
$2.8 million and $3.4 million, respectively.         
   F-15   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

6.   
   Income Taxes            
   For financial reporting purposes, (loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes
consists of the following:       
    The provision (benefit) for income tax, consists of the following:       
       
   F-16   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

6.   
   Income Taxes (continued)            
   The difference between tax expense and the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income
tax rate of 34% to income from continuing operations before income taxes is as follows:       
    Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities consist of the following temporary differences:

F-17   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

6.   
   Income Taxes (continued)            
   At December 31, 2005, we recorded net deferred tax assets related to losses from discontinued
operations and losses from the sale of discontinued operations of approximately $3,369,000. In addition, these losses have created net operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax purposes of approximately $8,106,000. These net operating
losses can be used to offset future taxable income and will expire in 2025 if not fully utilized. The income tax (benefit) expense from the (loss) income from discontinued operations was $(2.8 million), $449,000 and $(3.0 million) for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 respectively. Income tax benefit from the disposal of our former teleservice business was $549,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005.      At December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately $2.7 million of state net operating losses available to offset the future taxable income of
certain subsidiaries. If not used, these net operating losses will expire in varying amounts beginning in 2006 through 2025.      At
December 31, 2004, we recorded a net valuation allowance of $2.3 million against state deferred tax assets related to certain subsidiaries since the realization of these future state tax benefits is not deemed to be more likely than not. In
2005, we increased the valuation allowance by $660,000 to $3.0 million at December 31, 2005.      At December 31, 2004 and 2005, we
have net current deferred tax assets in the amount of $280,000 and $281,000, respectively, which are reported in the balance sheet in prepaid and other current assets. Income taxes paid in the U.S. in 2003, 2004 and 2005 are $1.0 million, $1.9
million and $1.6 million, respectively. Income taxes paid in the U.K. in 2003, 2004 and 2005 are $198,000, $217,000 and $201,000, respectively.       
    Debt consists of the following:   
   
    In May 2004, we entered into a secured revolving credit facility of $35.0 million with Citizens
Bank of Pennsylvania and First Horizon Bank (the  Senior Revolving Facility ). The Senior Revolving Facility is for a three-year term and is secured by substantially all of our assets. The Senior Revolving Facility carries an interest rate
at our discretion of either the financial institution s designated base rate (5.25% and 7.25% at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, respectively) plus 100 basis points or LIBOR (3-month LIBOR was 2.56% and 4.54% at
December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, respectively) plus 300 basis points. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $9.4 million of additional credit available under the Senior Revolving Facility.         
   F-18   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

7.   
   Debt (continued)            
   In May 2004, we also issued $10.0 million of secured subordinated notes (the  Secured
Subordinated Notes  ) and $12.0 million of unsecured subordinated notes (the  Unsecured Subordinated Notes  ) to Allied Capital Corporation ( Allied Capital ). We used the proceeds of the borrowings under the
Senior Revolving Facility, the Secured Subordinated Notes and the Unsecured Subordinated Notes to repay all debt outstanding at May 4, 2004.      In conjunction with these facilities, we incurred additional costs of approximately $1.4 million which were included in other long term assets in our consolidated financial statements and amortized over the remaining terms of the
facilities. Due to the refinancing of the credit facilities, we also wrote off the unamortized loan fees of approximately $2.5 million as interest expense, which included payments of $345,000 made in 2004 related to the retired debt in the second
quarter of 2004.      At December 31, 2004, the Secured Subordinated Notes carried an interest rate of 10.0%, required principal payments
of $500,000 per quarter, and were set to mature in November 2007, while the Unsecured Subordinated Notes carried a fixed interest rate of 15.5%; 13.0% payable quarterly in cash, and 2.5%, payable in cash, or deferred, and included in the outstanding
principal balance until maturity in May 2009. In exchange for consideration received in connection with this debt, we extended the term of existing warrants held by Allied Capital and Allied Investment Corporation (together,
 Allied  ) from May 2007 to the later of May 2009 or the third anniversary of the repayment date. These warrants were issued in 1999 to Allied and were for the purchase of 437,029 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of
$5.422 per share. The extension of these warrants was valued at $616,000 and was being accreted through interest expense over the life of the Unsecured Subordinated Notes.      In March 2005, we entered into a new secured term loan of $15.0 million with Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania and First Horizon Bank (the  Term Loan ). The Term Loan is for a five-year term and is secured by
substantially all of our assets. The Term Loan carries an interest rate of LIBOR plus 350 basis points, requires principal payments of $750,000 per quarter and matures in 2010. The proceeds from the Term Loan and a drawdown from the Senior Revolving
Facility were used to prepay the Secured Subordinated Notes and the Unsecured Subordinated Notes in the combined amount of $20.5 million. We wrote-off unamortized fees in the amount of $813,000 and incurred prepayment penalties in the amount of
$362,000 in connection with this transaction in the first quarter of 2005.      In July 2005, we issued $20.0 million of unsecured subordinated
notes to The Royal Bank of Scotland. These notes mature in July 2011, carry interest of 14% per year and have no interim principal amortization. The proceeds from the issuance of these unsecured subordinated notes were used to finance the
repurchase of interests in the Company held by LLR Equity Partners, L.P. and LLR Equity Partners Parallel, L.P. ( LLR ). The transaction consisted of the repurchase of 1,176,458 common shares purchased by LLR on September 1, 2000, a
warrant to purchase 740,500 common shares, rights to convert the common shares into preferred shares with an annual dividend obligation of $1.2 million, anti-dilution rights and warrants, as well as other rights. The transaction resulted in a $9.9
million decrease in income from continuing operations available to common shareholders.      We are required to maintain certain financial
covenants under our credit facilities, such as minimum earnings, debt-to-earnings, interest coverage, and other financial ratios. In addition, covenants under our credit facilities limit or prohibit our ability to incur additional debt, prepay
specified types of indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, sell assets, or engage in mergers and acquisitions.         
   F-19   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

7.   
   Debt (continued)            
   Aggregate maturities of debt for the years ending December 31 are as follows:       
    We paid interest of $4.5 million, $5.1 million and $4.6 million for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Interest expense for 2004 and 2005 included the write-off of unamortized loan fees of approximately $2.5 million and $813,000, respectively, and $362,000 in prepayment penalties due to the
refinancing of the credit facilities in the first quarter of 2005.      In September 2005, we entered into an interest rate cap agreement with
Citizens Bank to hedge our interest rate risk exposure on the Term Loan due to its variable interest rate. The interest rate cap qualified as a cash flow hedge pursuant to FASB Statement No. 133,  Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and
Hedging Activities . The interest rate cap is set at a LIBOR rate of 4.5%, has a remaining life matching the Term Loan, is based upon a notional amount of $13.5 million and was purchased for a premium of $106,000. Changes in value of the
interest rate cap will be reported as a component of Other Comprehensive Income and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the interest rate on the Term Loan exceeds 4.5%.      For the year ended December 31, 2005, the value of the interest rate cap increased by approximately $18,000 (before taxes) and $12,000 (after tax),
such amount was reflected in Other Comprehensive Income. No amounts were reclassified into earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005.         
   F-20   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        
       
   Future minimum payments required under capital and operating leases that have non-cancelable lease
terms in excess of one year are as follows:       

1  
  Minimum lease payments have not been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of $126,000 due in the future under noncancelable subleases.        At December 31, 2004 and 2005, current capital lease obligations of $194,000 and $130,000 were recorded in the balance sheet in other current
liabilities, respectively and $328,000 and $203,000 were recorded in the balance sheet in long-term liabilities, respectively. Rent expense under operating leases was $8.0 million, $8.8 million and $9.1 million for the years ended December 31,
2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance expenses generally are obligations of our company and, accordingly, are not included as part of rental payments. The Company subleases space at various office locations
under noncancelable sublease agreements. Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, include sublease income of approximately $134,000, $176,000, and $287,000, respectively. It is expected that in the normal course of
business, leases that expire will be renewed or replaced by leases on similar properties.       

9.   
   Redeemable Equity         In accordance with Emerging
Issues Task Force ( EITF ) Topic No. D-98, Classification and Measurement of Redeemable Securities,  which requires securities with redemption features, including those that become exercisable only upon a change-in-control, be
classified outside of permanent equity, we separately classified certain of our equity instruments purchased by LLR that contained such change-in-control redemption rights.      Pursuant to the terms of a September 1, 2000 Purchase Agreement, we sold, and LLR purchased, in a private placement; 1) 1,176,458 shares of the our
Common Stock; 2) 10 shares of the Series B Preferred Stock; and 3) warrants to purchase 740,500 shares of our Common Stock at an exercise price of $12.00 per share, for aggregate gross proceeds of $10.0 million. The warrants were exercisable from
the date of issuance and were to expire in 2010. If we sold shares of Common Stock in the future at a per share price below $8.50, the exercise price of the warrants would have been proportionately reduced and certain contingent warrants issued to
LLR at an exercise price of $.01 per share would have become exercisable.         
   F-21   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

9.   
   Redeemable Equity (continued)            
   The holders of Series B Preferred Stock were entitled to nominate and elect two directors to our
board of directors. The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock were not entitled to receive dividends. In the event of liquidation, each share of the Series B Preferred Stock was entitled to a liquidation preference of $10.00 per share and we could
redeem the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock at any time LLR s shareholdings was below 10% of our outstanding common shares, at a per share amount equal to the greater of the fair market value or the liquidation preference.
     At any time after the fifth anniversary of the closing, LLR could have exchanged each share of Common Stock for one-half of a share of our
Series C Preferred Stock. After conversion, the holders of Series C Preferred Stock were entitled to receive cumulative quarterly cash dividends at an annual rate of $2.04 per share. In the event of liquidation, each share of the Series C Preferred
Stock was entitled to a liquidation preference of $17.00 per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. Each share of Series C Preferred Stock was convertible at all times into two shares of Common Stock. The holders of Series C Preferred Stock
were entitled to vote on all matters before the common holders, as a single class with the Common Stock, on an as if converted basis. Additionally, holders of Series C Preferred Stock as a class, could also nominate and elect two additional
directors to our board of directors, subject to the maintenance by LLR of certain specified ownership percentages.      In the event of
(i) the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company, (ii) any consolidation or merger of the Company into another corporation or entity in which the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such transaction hold less
than 50% of the Company s voting power immediately after such transaction, or (iii) any transactions in which in excess of 50% of the Company s voting power is transferred to one or more affiliated persons, the holders of the Series B
Preferred Stock and the Series C Preferred Stock could have required us to redeem such securities at their liquidation preferences of $10.00 and $17.00 per share, respectively.      Given that such redemption features were not solely within the control of the Company, the Series B Preferred Stock and the 1,176,458 shares of Common
Stock held by LLR (which could have been exchanged into shares of Series C Preferred Stock), were presented separately as Redeemable equity from stockholders  equity in our consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2004. The 1,176,458
shares of Common Stock held by LLR were carried at their aggregate fair value at issuance of $8.9 million, and no changes were made to such carrying value as no change-in-control of the Company was considered probable. Finally, because the rights to
exchange shares of Common Stock into shares of Series C Preferred Stock could not be transferred by LLR to any parties other than affiliates of LLR, these rights would have terminated upon any resale or transfer of the 1,176,458 shares of Common
Stock held by LLR to an unaffiliated entity. Accordingly, upon the occurrence of any such resale or transfer, we would have had to reclassify a pro-rata portion of the carrying value of such Common Stock into stockholders  equity.   
  In July 2005, we repurchased interests in the Company held by LLR for a total of $20.4 million (which includes $400,000 of related costs). The
transaction consisted of the repurchase of the 1,176,458 common shares purchased by LLR on September 1, 2000, 740,500 warrants to purchase common shares, rights to convert the common shares into preferred shares with an annual dividend
obligation of $1.2 million, anti-dilution rights and warrants, as well as other rights. The transaction resulted in a $9.9 million decrease in income from continuing operations available to common shareholders and a reduction of additional paid in
capital of $1.6 million.      The Company incurred costs of $1.3 million in a discontinued equity offering which proceeds were to be used to
purchase the LLR interests.         
   F-22   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)          

    We maintain a defined contribution
pension and profit sharing plan covering substantially all domestic employees ( the ORC Plan  ) except for two of our domestic subsidiaries, ORC Macro and Social Health Services ( SHS ) which maintained separate profit
sharing and 401(k) plans (the  ORC Macro Plans  and the  SHS Plans ).      Employees may contribute up to 50% of their
annual salary but not to exceed the maximum allowable under the Internal Revenue Code; $13,000 and $14,000 for 2004 and 2005, respectively. The respective board of directors may elect to match employees  contributions or contribute to the
profit sharing plan. The ORC Plan assets included 157,500 and 43,500 shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively.      We contributed $399,000, $325,000 and $398,000 to the ORC Plan in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Under the ORC Macro Plans we contributed $1.9 million, $2.1 million and $2.6 million in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Under the SHS
Plans we contributed $446,000, $460,000 and $665,000 in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively.      In 2005, we established a self-insured health
insurance plan (the  Health Care Benefits Plan ). The Health Care Benefits Plan provides medical benefits to our domestic employees and is administered by a third party. In 2005, we incurred total costs of $851,000, $2.4 million and
$983,000 to cover claims and administrative fees for U.S. market research, ORC Macro and SHS employees, respectively. At December 31, 2005, we accrued outstanding costs of $155,000, $435,000 and $160,000 for U.S. market research, ORC Macro and
SHS employees, respectively.       
    We maintain the 1997 Stock Incentive
Plan, which provides for the grant of up to 1,625,000 options to purchase common stock to our directors and key employees. The exercise price of options granted to employees under this plan is at least equal to the fair market value of the stock on
the date of grant. Stock options are exercisable for seven years. Options granted under this plan are vested equally over a three-year period.      Under the 1997 Stock Incentive Plan as amended, each Non-employee Director is granted options to acquire the  formula number  of shares of common stock on January 2nd of each year. The option exercise price for these options
is equal to the fair market value of the underlying shares on the date of the grant.      These options become exercisable on the first
anniversary of the date of grant provided the Non-employee Director is a member of the board of directors on that date. The options granted under this provision are non-qualified stock options.      For 2003, 2004 and 2005, all outside directors were granted the  formula number  of 5,000 shares. In addition, each director who chaired a
committee was granted options to purchase an additional 5,000 shares of our common stock for each committee chaired.      Non-employee
Directors  options terminate seven years from the date of grant or the first anniversary after the optionee ceases to serve as a member of the board of directors for any reason. Any options of a Non-employee Director that are not exercisable
when he or she ceases to serve as a member of the board of directors will terminate as of the termination of the Non-employee Director s service on the board of directors. In 2005, two directors  service as members of the board of
directors were terminated as part of the repurchase of our interests from LLR. The unvested options of these directors were deemed to be fully vested as part of the repurchase agreement.         
   F-23   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

11.   
   Stock Options (continued)            
   Stock Option transactions were as follows:       
    The following table presents the dollar ranges of stock option exercise prices relating to
outstanding and exercisable stock options at December 31, 2005:       
    In January 2000, 90,000 non-plan options issued, with an exercise price equal to the market value
of the stock at the date of grant, to Mr. John Short were vested and outstanding as of December 31, 2005. All such non-plan options have a vesting period of three years and a life of seven years. All non-plan options are included in the
previously presented option table.         
   F-24   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

11.   
   Stock Options (Continued)            
   Options exercisable at December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 were 780,273, 559,656 and 566,845,
respectively. Exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 2005 for the plan ranged from $5.00 to $8.875 per share. The weighted average remaining term of the outstanding options is 3.9 years. As of December 31, 2005, there
were 311,905 shares available for grant under the 1997 Stock Incentive Plan.      We have 1,277,529 and 537,029 warrants issued and outstanding
with a weighted average exercise price of $9.23 and $5.42 as of December 31, 2004 and 2005 respectively. These warrants are immediately exercisable.      At December 31, 2005, we have reserved an aggregate of 2,646,125 shares of common stock for issuance upon the exercise or conversion of all outstanding securities and the purchase of common stock under various
stock purchase plans (see Note 12).       

12.   
   Stock Purchase Plans         In May 2001, our stockholders
approved the adoption of the Opinion Research Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  Qualified Plan ), the Opinion Research Corporation Stock Purchase Plan for Non-employee Directors and Designated Employees and Consultants (the
 Non-Qualified Plan ), and the ORC Holdings, Ltd. Employee Share Ownership Plan (the  U.K. Plan ).      We have reserved,
under the Qualified Plan, Non-Qualified Plan and the U.K. Plan, 1,000,000, 400,000 and 200,000 shares, respectively, of our common stock for future issuance. These plans allow eligible employees, non-employee directors, and consultants who meet
certain qualifications to purchase our common stock at 85% of the lower of the fair market value at the beginning or end of each offering period.      The following table summarizes the number of shares issued under the various plans for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively:       
    As of December 31, 2005, approximately 510,505, 229,711 and 166,797 shares remained available
for future issuance under the Qualified Plan, Non-Qualified Plan, and the U.K. Plan, respectively.         
   F-25   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)          

13.   
   Split-dollar Life Insurance and Officer Loan         We
have entered into an agreement with a trust established in the name of Mr. John Short. Under the agreement, we pay certain premiums on the life insurance policy on Mr. Short, to which the trust is the beneficiary. We have been assigned
certain rights to the assets of the trust as collateral for the premium paid on this life insurance policy. The cumulative premiums paid prior to 2003, which totaled $324,000 are recorded in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets. In the event the policy is terminated, Mr. Short has guaranteed the repayment of the amount due from his trust, and has pledged certain of his personal assets to us to collateralize such guarantee. The annual amounts paid in 2003 to
2005 of $46,000 were treated as compensation expense by us and as income to Mr. Short.      Over several years, we made loans to certain
executive officers bearing an interest rate of 9.5%. The current corporate policy prohibits the making of loans to any officers or directors. We currently have an outstanding loan made to Mr. Short, which has been grandfathered. Including
accrued interest, the aggregate amount of indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2004 and 2005 was $156,000. This amount was recorded in other current assets in our consolidated financial statements.       
    We identify segments based on our
internal reporting to management and our board of directors which reflects our geographic locations and industries in which we operate. We currently have three reportable segments: U.S. market research, U.K. market research, and social research. We
measure segment profits as operating profit, which is defined as income before interest and other non-operating expenses and income taxes. Information on segments and a reconciliation to the appropriate consolidated totals, are as follows:
        
   F-26   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

F-27   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        
       
   International long-lived assets were $4.5 million in 2003, $5.5 million in 2004 and $4.8 million in
2005. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, revenues from two customers of the social research segment represented $51.3 million, $59.0 million and $68.4 million, respectively. Revenues from the U.S. federal government represented $95.3 million, $108.8 million
and $111.6 million in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Revenues in the  Other  category were generated primarily from our Asian operations. As this segment is not significant, its  results are not presented separately.   

15.   
   Net Income (Loss) Per Share         The following table
sets forth the computation of basic and diluted income (loss) from operations per share:       
    For the year ended December 31, 2004, there were 276,902 options and 740,500 warrants
outstanding to purchase our common shares that were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.      For the year ended December 31, 2005, there were 512,600 options outstanding to purchase our common shares that were not included in the computation of diluted loss per share because their inclusion would have
been anti-dilutive. The 740,500 warrants previously held by LLR were repurchased by the Company during the quarter ended September 30, 2005.         
   F-28   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)        

16.   
   Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)            

F-29   

Table of Contents  

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)          

17.   
   Stockholders  Derivative Lawsuit         On
December 2, 2004, several persons who purported to be stockholders of the Company filed a derivative complaint against the Company and its directors in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware challenging the decision to repurchase certain
interests in the Company held by LLR. The plaintiffs alleged, among other things, that the purchase price the Company intended to pay for certain of the interests held by LLR would constitute a waste of corporate assets. The complaint further
alleged that, in approving the offering and the repurchase of the interests held by LLR, the directors did not act on the Company s behalf or on behalf of its stockholders but, rather, breached their fiduciary duties of good faith and loyalty
to the Company and its stockholders. Finally, the complaint alleged that Janney Montgomery Scott LLC ( JMS ), an independent valuation firm, materially overvalued the LLR interests in its opinion to the Company s board of directors
that the Company s repurchase of the LLR interests was fair, from a financial point of view, to the stockholders other than LLR.      Thereafter, the Company and LLR modified the terms on which the repurchase would be completed, the Company issued senior subordinated notes to finance the repurchase and, in July of 2005, the Company repurchased all of LLR s interests
in the Company for $20 million. The plaintiffs then amended their complaint to challenge the repurchase as completed but again alleged that the Company paid too much for the LLR interests, that the directors breached their duties of good faith and
loyalty in approving the repurchase on the modified terms and that JMS overvalued the LLR interests when it opined that the repurchase of the LLR interests was fair from a financial point of view, to the stockholders other than LLR.      We have not accrued any costs, beyond incurred legal costs, for expense relating to this matter as the Company and its directors believe plaintiff s
allegations have no merit and we intend to vigorously defend the actions challenged in the plaintiff s amended complaint. Any expense to be incurred in conjunction with this matter cannot reasonably be estimated at this time.       

18.   
   Business Restructuring         In December 2005, we
announced the closure of our market research operations in South Korea and Mexico due to inconsistent operating results and a determination the above operations were not strategic in providing the Company s services to its global clients. The
cost of implementing the above plan is estimated to result in cumulative charges of $530,000. The Company incurred charges of $471,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005 as detailed below:       
    The above amounts were included in loss from discontinued operations in the accompanying
consolidated statements of operations. We expect to incur charges of $59,000 in 2006 for termination benefits and other costs. We expect substantially all of the restructuring costs to be paid by the second quarter of 2006.         
   F-30   

Table of Contents  

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Account       OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION        (in thousands)       Rule 12-09. Valuation and Qualifying
Accounts       

1  
  Uncollectible accounts written-off.         

2  
    Reserve revaluation.         

3  
  Adjusted for discontinued operations.           
   S-1   

<EX-10.7>
 2
 dex107.htm
 MAHNKE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

Mahnke Employment Agreement 

Exhibit 10.7         EXECUTIVE AGREEMENT        THIS EXECUTIVE AGREEMENT (the  Agreement ) is made as of this
22nd day of February, 2002 by and between OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION, a Delaware Corporation (the  Company ), and Gregory N. Mahnke (the  Executive ).        W I T N E S S E T H:        WHEREAS, the Company believes that it would
benefit from the application of the Executive s particular and unique skill, experience and background in the management and operation of the Company, and wishes to employ the Executive as a senior executive of the Company; and      WHEREAS, the parties desire by this Agreement to set forth the terms and conditions of the employment relationship between the Company and the Executive;
     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants in this Agreement, the Company and the Executive agree as
follows:      1.  Employment and Duties .      (a) The Company hereby employs the Executive on the terms and conditions provided in this Agreement and the Executive agrees to accept such employment subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The
Executive shall have responsibility for carrying out duties as determined by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or his authorized designee, as well as such other executive duties and responsibilities, as shall from time to time be determined
by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Company s Board of Directors.      (b) The Executive shall devote
his/her full working time, energy, skill and best efforts to the performance of his/her duties, hereunder, in a manner that will faithfully and diligently further the business and interests of the Company, and shall not be employed by, or
participate or engage in or in any manner be a part of the management or operation of any business enterprise other than the Company without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Notwithstanding the above, the
Executive shall be permitted to the extent such activities do not interfere or conflict with the performance of the Executive s duties and responsibilities hereunder, (i) to serve on civic,  
       
   1   

charitable or professional boards or committees (it being expressly understood and agreed that the Executive s continuing to serve on any such board
and/or committees on which the Executive is serving, or with which the Executive is otherwise associated (each of which has been disclosed to the Company in writing prior to the execution of the Executive s Agreement), as of the date of this
Agreement, shall be deemed not to interfere with the performance by the Executive of the Executive s duties and responsibilities under this Agreement) and (ii) with the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer, to write
academic, trade or mainstream papers or other publishable books (it being expressly understood and agreed that no such writings can interfere with the Executive s obligations under the Employee Agreement containing the confidentiality and
non-solicitation agreement [ Employee Agreement ] he/she has also entered into with the Company).      (c) The
Executive represents and warrants to the Company that he/she is under no contractual or other restriction or obligation which conflicts with, violates or is inconsistent with the execution of this Agreement, the performance of the Executive s
duties hereunder, or the other rights of the Company hereunder.      (d) Without the Company s prior written consent, the
Executive shall not obtain goods or services or otherwise deal on behalf of the Company with any business or entity in which the Executive or a member of his/her family has a financial interest or from which the Executive or a member of his/her
immediate family may derive a financial benefit as a result of such transaction, except that this prohibition shall not apply to any public company in which the Executive or a member of his/her family owns less than one percent of the outstanding
stock.      2.  Term . The initial term of this Agreement shall commence on the date hereof and shall terminate on December 31, 2002
(the  Initial Term ), unless earlier terminated in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect after the expiration of the Initial Term (the  Extended Term ), which Extended
Term may be terminated by the Company for any reason with at least 30 days prior written notice. Paragraph 8 shall apply to such termination.      3.  Compensation .      (a)  Base Compensation . As compensation for performing the services required by this
Agreement, the Company shall pay to the Executive an annual  
       
   2   

salary, determined by the CEO, ( Base Compensation ) payable in equal installments pursuant to the Company s customary payroll procedures in
effect for its executive personnel at the time of payment, but in no event less frequently than monthly, subject to withholding for applicable federal, state, and local taxes. The Executive shall not be entitled to additional compensation for
serving on any Company board on which the Executive may be asked to serve. The Executive s Base Compensation shall not be reduced during the term of this Agreement. The Executive s Base Compensation shall be reviewed annually by the
Company s Chief Executive Officer no later than March of each calendar year, it being understood that there shall be no obligation to increase the Executive s Base Compensation as a result of such review.      (b)  Incentive Compensation . In addition to Base Compensation, the Executive may receive additional compensation ( Incentive
Compensation ). The Incentive Compensation shall be pursuant to short-term and/or long-term incentive compensation programs which shall be established from time to time by the Company.      4.  Executive Benefits . During the term of this Agreement the Executive and his/her eligible dependents shall have the right to participate in any
retirement plans (qualified and non-qualified), pension, insurance, health, disability or other benefit plan or program that has been or is hereafter adopted by the Company (or in which the Company participates), according to the terms of such plan
or program.      5.  Vacation and Leaves of Absence . The Executive shall be entitled to vacation days during each calendar year as
provided to other Executives of the Company in accordance with the policies of the Company. Any vacation days that are not taken in a given calendar year shall not accrue or carry over from year to year. Upon any termination of this Agreement for
any reason whatsoever, accrued and unused vacation for the year in which this Agreement terminates will be paid to the Executive within ten (10) days of such termination based on his/her Base Compensation in effect on the date of such
termination. In addition, the Executive shall be entitled to the same sick leave and holidays provided to other Executives of the Company.      6.  Business Expenses . The Executive shall be promptly reimbursed against presentation of vouchers or receipts for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by him/her in connection with the performance of business-related
duties.         
   3   

7.  Indemnification . The Company shall (and is hereby obligated to) indemnify (including advance
payment of expenses) the Executive in each and every situation where the Company is obligated to make such indemnification pursuant to applicable law and the relevant portions of the Company s Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws. Such
indemnification shall in each case include payment of reasonable attorneys fees and expenses, including where permitted by applicable law, advancement of reasonable attorneys fees and expenses.      8.  Termination and Termination Benefits .      (a)  Termination by the Company For Cause . The Company may terminate this Agreement prior to its expiration date without prior notice for  cause.  In such event, the Executive shall be paid for his/her
services hereunder only the Base Compensation up to the effective date of such termination. For purposes of this Section 8(a),  cause  shall mean (i) an act of dishonesty by the Executive constituting a felony or resulting or
intended to result in gain to, or personal enrichment of the Executive at the Company s expense, (ii) the engaging by the Executive in misconduct which is demonstrably injurious to the Company, (iii) the refusal of the Executive
substantially to perform his/her duties hereunder, which refusal has not been cured within seven (7) days after receipt of written notice from the Chief Executive Officer, (iv) the violation of any reasonable express direction of the Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, his authorized designee, or the Company s Board of Directors, or of any reasonable rule, regulation, policy or plan established by the Company from time to time which governs the Executive in the performance of
his/her work, which violation has not been cured within seven (7) days after receipt of written notice from the Chief Executive Officer, (v) the use by the Executive of any illegal substance, or the use by the Executive of alcohol or any
controlled substance to an extent that it interferes with the performance of the Executive s duties under this Agreement, and (vi) the substantial breach by the Executive of his/her obligations in this Agreement.      (b)  Termination by the Company Without Cause . The Company may terminate this Agreement at any time (within the Initial Term or the
Extended Term) and for any reason upon 30 days  written notice to the Executive. In the event of such termination, except if termination is pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (d), (e), or (g) of this  
       
   4   

Paragraph 8, the Executive shall be entitled, as his/her sole remedy and subject to the terms and conditions of subparagraph (c) of this Paragraph 8, to
continue to receive his/her Base Compensation and medical and life insurance benefits, if permitted by the applicable Company insurance plans, until 11 months after the effective date of such termination.      (c)  Compliance with Employee Agreement, Non-Competition Agreement and Execution of Release . The Company s obligation to pay
the Executive s Base Compensation and applicable benefits under paragraph (b) of this Paragraph 8 is expressly conditioned upon the Executive s continued compliance with the terms and conditions of the Employee Agreement he/she has
entered with the Company, including without limitation, those obligations relating to the company s confidential information and intellectual property and the non-solicitation of company customers and employees. The Company s obligation
under paragraph (b) of this Paragraph 8 is further conditioned upon the Executive s execution and delivery to the company of a Release Agreement, as drafted at the time of the Executive s termination of employment, including, but not
limited to:      (I) An unconditional release of all rights to any claims, charges, complaints, grievances, known or unknown to
the Executive, against the Company, its affiliates or assigns, through the date of the Executive s termination from employment.      (II) A representation and warranty that the Executive has not filed or assigned any claims, charges, complaints, or grievances against the Company, its affiliates or assigns.      (III) An agreement to maintain the confidentiality of the release.      (d)  Disability of Executive . If the Executive is permanently disabled (as defined in the Company s long-term disability
insurance policy then in effect), then the Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall have the right to terminate the Executive s employment upon 30 days prior written notice to the Executive at any time during the continuation of such
disability. In the event the Executive s employment is terminated for disability in accordance with this subparagraph (d) of this Paragraph 8, the Company shall not thereafter be obligated to make any further payments hereunder other than
(i) the accrued obligations through the date of such termination and (ii) continued Base Compensation and medical and life insurance benefits, until the earlier of (x) such time as  
       
   5   

payments to the Executive commence under the Company s long-term disability insurance policy then in effect, or (y) until 11 months after the
effective date of each termination.      (e)  Termination by the Executive Without Cause.  The Executive may terminate this
Agreement at any time and for any reason upon 30 days  written notice to the Company (during which period the Executive shall, if requested in writing by the Company, continue to perform his/her duties as specified under this Agreement.) In
such event, the Executive shall be paid only the Base Compensation for his/her services hereunder up to the effective date of such notice.      (f)  Termination by the Executive With Cause.  The Executive may terminate this Agreement prior to its expiration date or any extension thereof without prior notice for  cause , in which event the
Executive shall be compensated in the same manner as if the Company had terminated the Executive without cause pursuant to Paragraph 8(b). For purposes of this Paragraph 8(f),  cause  shall mean exclusively (i) a material reduction in
the level of responsibility or authority of the Executive, (ii) the Company s substantial breach of its obligations in this Agreement, or (iii) the relocation of the Executive s principal place of employment by the Company to a
location more than fifty (50) miles from his/her then current assignment. The Executive must provide notice to the Company that the Executive is intending to terminate his/her employment within one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
Executive has actual knowledge of the occurrence of an event he/she believes constitutes cause. In the event the Executive delivers to the Company a notice of termination for cause, the Executive agrees to appear before a meeting with the Chief
Executive Officer of the Company (after reasonable notice) and specify the particulars.      (g)  Death Benefit. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate on the date of the Executive s death. In such event, the Executive s estate shall be paid his/her Base Compensation for the remainder of the month in
which such termination occurs.      9.  Prior Agreements, Conflicts of Interest . The Executive represents to the Company that
(a) there are no restrictions, agreements or understandings, oral or written, to which the Executive is a party or by which the Executive is bound that prevent or make unlawful the Executive s execution or performance of this Agreement;
(b) none of the information supplied by the Executive to the Company or any representative of the  
       
   6   

Company in connection with the Executive s employment by the Company misstated a material fact or omitted material information necessary to make the
information supplied not misleading; and (c) the Executive does not have any business or other relationship that creates a conflict between the interests of the Executive and the Company.      10.  Miscellaneous       (a)  Arbitration . All disputes, claims, or controversies arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, the Executive s employment or its termination, including but not limited to those concerning workplace discrimination
and all other statutory claims, shall exclusively be submitted to and determined by final and binding arbitration before a single arbitrator ( Arbitrator ) of the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ) in accordance with the
association s then current rules for the resolution of employment disputes ( the Rules ). The Arbitrator shall be selected in accordance with the Rules. The parties consent to the authority of the arbitrator, if the arbitrator so
determines, to award fees and expenses (including legal fees) to the prevailing party in the arbitration. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of the Employee Agreement entered separately with
Executive hereof through proceedings brought in a court of competent jurisdiction.      (b)  Severability; Reasonableness of
Agreement . If any term, provision or covenant of this Agreement or part thereof, or the application thereof to any person, place or circumstance shall be held to be invalid, unenforceable or void by a court or competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of this Agreement and such term, provision or covenant shall remain in full force and effect and any such invalid, unenforceable or void term, provision or covenant shall be deemed, without further action on the part of the parties hereto,
modified, amended and limited, and the court shall have the power to modify, amend and limit any such term, provision or covenant, to the extent necessary to render the same and the remainder of the Agreement valid, enforceable and lawful.
     (c)  Assignment; Benefit . This Agreement shall not be assignable by the Executive, other than the Executive s
rights to payments or benefits hereunder, which may be transferred only by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Upon the Executive s death, this Agreement and all rights of the Executive hereunder shall inure to the benefit of and be
enforceable by the Executive s beneficiary or beneficiaries, personal  
       
   7   

or legal representatives, or estate, to the extent any such person succeeds to the Executive s interests under this Agreement.      (d)  Notices . All notices hereunder shall be in writing and shall be sufficiently given if hand-delivered, sent by documented
overnight delivery service, registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested or by telegram or telefax (confirmed by U.S. mail), receipt acknowledged, addressed as set forth below or at such other address for either party as
may be specified in a notice given as provided herein by such party to the other. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given as of the date received, in the case of personal delivery, or on the date shown on the receipt or confirmation
therefore, in all other cases. Any and all service or process and any other notice in any such action, suit or proceeding shall be effective against any party if given as provided in this Agreement; provided that nothing herein shall be deemed to
affect the right of any party to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.      If to the Company:      Opinion Research Corporation      23 Orchard Road
     Skillman, New Jersey 08558      Attention: Chief Executive Officer      Fax # (908) 281-5105      If to the Executive:      Gregory N. Mahnke
     28 DeForest Heights      Burlington, VT 05401      (e)  Entire Agreement and Modification . With the exception of the Employee Agreement
separately entered into between the parties, this Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the matters contemplated herein and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings with respect thereto. No
amendment, modification, or waiver of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing. Neither the failure nor any delay on the part of any party to exercise any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor
shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege preclude any other or further exercise of the same or of any other right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such occurrence or with respect to any other
occurrence.         
   8   

(f)  Governing Law . This Agreement is made pursuant to, and shall be construed and
enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of New Jersey and the federal laws of the United States of America, to the extent applicable, without giving effect to otherwise applicable principles of conflicts of law. The parties hereto
expressly consent to the jurisdiction of any state or federal court located in New Jersey, and to venue therein, and consent to the service of process in any such action or proceeding by certified or registered mailing of the summons and complaint
therein directed to the Executive or the Company, as the case may be, at its address as provided in subsection (d) of this Paragraph 10. Nothing herein shall affect the parties  obligations to submit disputes to arbitration under Paragraph
10(a) of this Agreement.      (g)  Withholding . All payments hereunder shall be subject to any required withholding of
Federal, state and local taxes pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.      (h)  Headings; Counterparts . The
headings of paragraphs in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect its interpretation. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which, when taken
together, shall be deemed to constitute the same Agreement.      (i)  Further Assurances . Each of the parties hereto shall
execute such further instruments and take such other actions as the other party shall reasonably request in order to effectuate the purposes of this Agreement.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.       

THE EXECUTIVE   

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION    

By:   

By:   

John F. Short     Chairman and CEO    
       
   9   

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.8>
 3
 dex108.htm
 MIODUS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

Miodus Employment Agreement 

Exhibit 10.8         EXECUTIVE AGREEMENT        THIS EXECUTIVE AGREEMENT (the  Agreement ) is made as of this
23   rd    day of January, 2002 by and between OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION, a Delaware Corporation (the
 Company ), and Gerard J. Miodus (the  Executive ).        W I T N E S S E T H:        WHEREAS, the Company believes that it would benefit from the application of the Executive s particular and unique skill, experience and background
in the management and operation of the Company, and wishes to employ the Executive as a senior executive of the Company; and      WHEREAS, the
parties desire by this Agreement to set forth the terms and conditions of the employment relationship between the Company and the Executive;      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants in this Agreement, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:      1.  Employment and Duties.       (a) The Company hereby employs the Executive on the terms
and conditions provided in this Agreement and the Executive agrees to accept such employment subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The Executive shall have responsibility for carrying out duties as determined by the Chief Executive
Officer of the Company or his authorized designee, as well as such other executive duties and responsibilities, as shall from time to time be determined by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Company s Board of Directors.
     (b) The Executive shall devote his/her full working time, energy, skill and best efforts to the performance of his/her
duties, hereunder, in a manner that will faithfully and diligently further the business and interests of the Company, and shall not be employed by, or participate or engage in or in any manner be a part of the management or operation of any business
enterprise other than the Company without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Notwithstanding the above, the Executive shall be permitted to the extent such activities do not interfere or conflict with the
performance of the Executive s duties and responsibilities hereunder, (i) to serve on civic,  
       
   1   

charitable or professional boards or committees (it being expressly understood and agreed that the Executive s continuing to serve on any such board
and/or committees on which the Executive is serving, or with which the Executive is otherwise associated (each of which has been disclosed to the Company in writing prior to the execution of the Executive s Agreement), as of the date of this
Agreement, shall be deemed not to interfere with the performance by the Executive of the Executive s duties and responsibilities under this Agreement) and (ii) with the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer, to write
academic, trade or mainstream papers or other publishable books (it being expressly understood and agreed that no such writings can interfere with the Executive s obligations under the Employee Agreement containing the confidentiality and
non-solicitation agreement [ Employee Agreement ] he/she has also entered into with the Company).      (c) The
Executive represents and warrants to the Company that he/she is under no contractual or other restriction or obligation which conflicts with, violates or is inconsistent with the execution of this Agreement, the performance of the Executive s
duties hereunder, or the other rights of the Company hereunder.      (d) Without the Company s prior written consent, the
Executive shall not obtain goods or services or otherwise deal on behalf of the Company with any business or entity in which the Executive or a member of his/her family has a financial interest or from which the Executive or a member of his/her
immediate family may derive a financial benefit as a result of such transaction, except that this prohibition shall not apply to any public company in which the Executive or a member of his/her family owns less than one percent of the outstanding
stock.      2.  Term . The initial term of this Agreement shall commence on the date hereof and shall terminate on December 31, 2002
(the  Initial Term ), unless earlier terminated in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect after the expiration of the Initial Term (the  Extended Term ), which Extended
Term may be terminated by the Company for any reason with at least 30 days prior written notice. Paragraph 8 shall apply to such termination.      3.  Compensation .      (a)  Base Compensation . As compensation for performing the services required by this
Agreement, the Company shall pay to the Executive an annual  
       
   2   

salary, determined by the CEO, ( Base Compensation ) payable in equal installments pursuant to the Company s customary payroll procedures in
effect for its executive personnel at the time of payment, but in no event less frequently than monthly, subject to withholding for applicable federal, state, and local taxes. The Executive shall not be entitled to additional compensation for
serving on any Company board on which the Executive may be asked to serve. The Executive s Base Compensation shall not be reduced during the term of this Agreement. The Executive s Base Compensation shall be reviewed annually by the
Company s Chief Executive Officer no later than March of each calendar year, it being understood that there shall be no obligation to increase the Executive s Base Compensation as a result of such review.      (b)  Incentive Compensation . In addition to Base Compensation, the Executive may receive additional compensation ( Incentive
Compensation ). The Incentive Compensation shall be pursuant to short-term and/or long-term incentive compensation programs which shall be established from time to time by the Company.      4.  Executive Benefits . During the term of this Agreement the Executive and his/her eligible dependents shall have the right to participate in any
retirement plans (qualified and non-qualified), pension, insurance, health, disability or other benefit plan or program that has been or is hereafter adopted by the Company (or in which the Company participates), according to the terms of such plan
or program.      5.  Vacation and Leaves of Absence . The Executive shall be entitled to vacation days during each calendar year as
provided to other Executives of the Company in accordance with the policies of the Company. Any vacation days that are not taken in a given calendar year shall not accrue or carry over from year to year. Upon any termination of this Agreement for
any reason whatsoever, accrued and unused vacation for the year in which this Agreement terminates will be paid to the Executive within ten (10) days of such termination based on his/her Base Compensation in effect on the date of such
termination. In addition, the Executive shall be entitled to the same sick leave and holidays provided to other Executives of the Company.      6.  Business Expenses . The Executive shall be promptly reimbursed against presentation of vouchers or receipts for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by him/her in connection with the performance of business-related
duties.         
   3   

7.  Indemnification . The Company shall (and is hereby obligated to) indemnify (including advance
payment of expenses) the Executive in each and every situation where the Company is obligated to make such indemnification pursuant to applicable law and the relevant portions of the Company s Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws. Such
indemnification shall in each case include payment of reasonable attorneys fees and expenses, including where permitted by applicable law, advancement of reasonable attorneys fees and expenses.      8.  Termination and Termination Benefits .      (a)  Termination by the Company For Cause . The Company may terminate this Agreement prior to its expiration date without prior notice for  cause.  In such event, the Executive shall be paid for his/her
services hereunder only the Base Compensation up to the effective date of such termination. For purposes of this Section 8(a),  cause  shall mean (i) an act of dishonesty by the Executive constituting a felony or resulting or
intended to result in gain to, or personal enrichment of the Executive at the Company s expense, (ii) the engaging by the Executive in misconduct which is demonstrably injurious to the Company, (iii) the refusal of the Executive
substantially to perform his/her duties hereunder, which refusal has not been cured within seven (7) days after receipt of written notice from the Chief Executive Officer, (iv) the violation of any reasonable express direction of the Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, his authorized designee, or the Company s Board of Directors, or of any reasonable rule, regulation, policy or plan established by the Company from time to time which governs the Executive in the performance of
his/her work, which violation has not been cured within seven (7) days after receipt of written notice from the Chief Executive Officer, (v) the use by the Executive of any illegal substance, or the use by the Executive of alcohol or any
controlled substance to an extent that it interferes with the performance of the Executive s duties under this Agreement, and (vi) the substantial breach by the Executive of his/her obligations in this Agreement.      (b)  Termination by the Company Without Cause . The Company may terminate this Agreement at any time (within the Initial Term or the
Extended Term) and for any reason upon 30 days  written notice to the Executive. In the event of such termination, except if termination is pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (d), (e), or (g) of this  
       
   4   

Paragraph 8, the Executive shall be entitled, as his/her sole remedy and subject to the terms and conditions of subparagraph (c) of this Paragraph 8, to
continue to receive his/her Base Compensation and medical and life insurance benefits, if permitted by the applicable Company insurance plans, until 11 months after the effective date of such termination.      (c)  Compliance with Employee Agreement, Non-Competition Agreement and Execution of Release . The Company s obligation to pay
the Executive s Base Compensation and applicable benefits under paragraph (b) of this Paragraph 8 is expressly conditioned upon the Executive s continued compliance with the terms and conditions of the Employee Agreement he/she has
entered with the Company, including without limitation, those obligations relating to the company s confidential information and intellectual property and the non-solicitation of company customers and employees. The Company s obligation
under paragraph (b) of this Paragraph 8 is further conditioned upon the Executive s execution and delivery to the company of a Release Agreement, as drafted at the time of the Executive s termination of employment, including, but not
limited to:      (I) An unconditional release of all rights to any claims, charges, complaints, grievances, known or unknown to
the Executive, against the Company, its affiliates or assigns, through the date of the Executive s termination from employment.      (II) A representation and warranty that the Executive has not filed or assigned any claims, charges, complaints, or grievances against the Company, its affiliates or assigns.      (III) An agreement to maintain the confidentiality of the release.      (d)  Disability of Executive . If the Executive is permanently disabled (as defined in the Company s long-term disability
insurance policy then in effect), then the Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall have the right to terminate the Executive s employment upon 30 days prior written notice to the Executive at any time during the continuation of such
disability. In the event the Executive s employment is terminated for disability in accordance with this subparagraph (d) of this Paragraph 8, the Company shall not thereafter be obligated to make any further payments hereunder other than
(i) the accrued obligations through the date of such termination and (ii) continued Base Compensation and medical and life insurance benefits, until the earlier of (x) such time as  
       
   5   

payments to the Executive commence under the Company s long-term disability insurance policy then in effect, or (y) until 11 months after the
effective date of each termination.      (e)  Termination by the Executive Without Cause.  The Executive may terminate this
Agreement at any time and for any reason upon 30 days  written notice to the Company (during which period the Executive shall, if requested in writing by the Company, continue to perform his/her duties as specified under this Agreement.) In
such event, the Executive shall be paid only the Base Compensation for his/her services hereunder up to the effective date of such notice.      (f)  Termination by the Executive With Cause.  The Executive may terminate this Agreement prior to its expiration date or any extension thereof without prior notice for  cause , in which event the
Executive shall be compensated in the same manner as if the Company had terminated the Executive without cause pursuant to Paragraph 8(b). For purposes of this Paragraph 8(f),  cause  shall mean exclusively (i) a material reduction in
the level of responsibility or authority of the Executive, (ii) the Company s substantial breach of its obligations in this Agreement, or (iii) the relocation of the Executive s principal place of employment by the Company to a
location more than fifty (50) miles from his/her then current assignment. The Executive must provide notice to the Company that the Executive is intending to terminate his/her employment within one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
Executive has actual knowledge of the occurrence of an event he/she believes constitutes cause. In the event the Executive delivers to the Company a notice of termination for cause, the Executive agrees to appear before a meeting with the Chief
Executive Officer of the Company (after reasonable notice) and specify the particulars.      (g)  Death Benefit. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate on the date of the Executive s death. In such event, the Executive s estate shall be paid his/her Base Compensation for the remainder of the month in
which such termination occurs.      9.  Prior Agreements, Conflicts of Interest . The Executive represents to the Company that
(a) there are no restrictions, agreements or understandings, oral or written, to which the Executive is a party or by which the Executive is bound that prevent or make unlawful the Executive s execution or performance of this Agreement;
(b) none of the information supplied by the Executive to the Company or any representative of the  
       
   6   

Company in connection with the Executive s employment by the Company misstated a material fact or omitted material information necessary to make the
information supplied not misleading; and (c) the Executive does not have any business or other relationship that creates a conflict between the interests of the Executive and the Company.      10.  Miscellaneous       (a)  Arbitration . All disputes, claims, or controversies arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, the Executive s employment or its termination, including but not limited to those concerning workplace discrimination
and all other statutory claims, shall exclusively be submitted to and determined by final and binding arbitration before a single arbitrator ( Arbitrator ) of the American Arbitration Association ( AAA ) in accordance with the
association s then current rules for the resolution of employment disputes ( the Rules ). The Arbitrator shall be selected in accordance with the Rules. The parties consent to the authority of the arbitrator, if the arbitrator so
determines, to award fees and expenses (including legal fees) to the prevailing party in the arbitration. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of the Employee Agreement entered separately with
Executive hereof through proceedings brought in a court of competent jurisdiction.      (b)  Severability; Reasonableness of
Agreement . If any term, provision or covenant of this Agreement or part thereof, or the application thereof to any person, place or circumstance shall be held to be invalid, unenforceable or void by a court or competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of this Agreement and such term, provision or covenant shall remain in full force and effect and any such invalid, unenforceable or void term, provision or covenant shall be deemed, without further action on the part of the parties hereto,
modified, amended and limited, and the court shall have the power to modify, amend and limit any such term, provision or covenant, to the extent necessary to render the same and the remainder of the Agreement valid, enforceable and lawful.
     (c)  Assignment; Benefit . This Agreement shall not be assignable by the Executive, other than the Executive s
rights to payments or benefits hereunder, which may be transferred only by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Upon the Executive s death, this Agreement and all rights of the Executive hereunder shall inure to the benefit of and be
enforceable by the Executive s beneficiary or beneficiaries, personal  
       
   7   

or legal representatives, or estate, to the extent any such person succeeds to the Executive s interests under this Agreement.      (d)  Notices . All notices hereunder shall be in writing and shall be sufficiently given if hand-delivered, sent by documented
overnight delivery service, registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested or by telegram or telefax (confirmed by U.S. mail), receipt acknowledged, addressed as set forth below or at such other address for either party as
may be specified in a notice given as provided herein by such party to the other. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given as of the date received, in the case of personal delivery, or on the date shown on the receipt or confirmation
therefore, in all other cases. Any and all service or process and any other notice in any such action, suit or proceeding shall be effective against any party if given as provided in this Agreement; provided that nothing herein shall be deemed to
affect the right of any party to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.      If to the Company:      Opinion Research Corporation      23 Orchard Road
     Skillman, New Jersey 08558      Attention: Chief Executive Officer      Fax # (908) 281-5105      If to the Executive:      Gerard J. Miodus
     36 Rosewood Court      Belle Mead,
NJ 08502      (e)  Entire Agreement and Modification . With the exception of the Employee Agreement separately entered into
between the parties, this Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the matters contemplated herein and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings with respect thereto. No amendment, modification,
or waiver of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing. Neither the failure nor any delay on the part of any party to exercise any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or
partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege preclude any other or further exercise of the same or of any other right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such occurrence or with respect to any other occurrence.         
   8   

(f)  Governing Law . This Agreement is made pursuant to, and shall be construed and
enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of New Jersey and the federal laws of the United States of America, to the extent applicable, without giving effect to otherwise applicable principles of conflicts of law. The parties hereto
expressly consent to the jurisdiction of any state or federal court located in New Jersey, and to venue therein, and consent to the service of process in any such action or proceeding by certified or registered mailing of the summons and complaint
therein directed to the Executive or the Company, as the case may be, at its address as provided in subsection (d) of this Paragraph 10. Nothing herein shall affect the parties  obligations to submit disputes to arbitration under Paragraph
10(a) of this Agreement.      (g)  Withholding . All payments hereunder shall be subject to any required withholding of
Federal, state and local taxes pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.      (h)  Headings; Counterparts . The
headings of paragraphs in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect its interpretation. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which, when taken
together, shall be deemed to constitute the same Agreement.      (i)  Further Assurances . Each of the parties hereto shall
execute such further instruments and take such other actions as the other party shall reasonably request in order to effectuate the purposes of this Agreement.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF ,   the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.       

THE EXECUTIVE   

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION    

By:  

By:   

John F. Short     Chairman and CEO    
       
   9   

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.25>
 4
 dex1025.htm
 THIRD MODIFICATION TO BUSINESS LOAN AGREEMENT AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

Third Modification to Business Loan Agreement and Security Agreement 

Exhibit 10.25         THIRD MODIFICATION TO BUSINESS LOAN           AND SECURITY AGREEMENT AND OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS
          THIS THIRD MODIFICATION TO BUSINESS LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT AND OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS   (this
 Modification ), dated November 30, 2005, is made by and among (i) Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania, a Pennsylvania state chartered bank ( Citizens Bank ), acting in its capacity as agent for the Lenders (the
 Agent  (ii) Citizens Bank, acting in its individual capacity as Swing Line Lender (the  Swing Line Lender  (iii) Citizens Bank, acting in its individual capacity as a Lender and First Horizon Bank, a division of
First Tennessee Bank National Association ( First Horizon  and collectively with Citizens Bank, the  Lenders ) and (iv) Opinion Research Corporation, a Delaware corporation, Macro International Inc., a Delaware corporation,
ORC ProTel, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Social and Health Services, Ltd., a Maryland corporation, ORC Holdings, Ltd., an English Company, O.R.C. International Ltd., an English Company, and any other  Borrower  party to the
hereinafter referenced Loan Agreement (the  Borrowers ). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings attributed to such terms in the Loan Agreement.         W   I   T   N   E   S   S   E   T   H       T   H   A   T :          WHEREAS  , on May 4, 2004, the Lenders extended to the Borrowers loans and certain other financial accommodations (the  Original
Loan ) in the aggregate maximum principal amount of Thirty-five Million and No/100 Dollars ($35,000,000.00) pursuant to the terms and conditions of a certain Business Loan and Security Agreement dated as of May 4, 2004 (as the same may be
modified or amended from time to time, the  Loan Agreement ), by and among the Borrowers, the Agent, the Swing Line Lender and the Lenders; and       WHEREAS , pursuant to the terms of the First Modification to Business Loan and Security Agreement and Other Loan Documents dated March 15, 2005, the Original Loan was increased to Fifty Million and No/100
Dollars ($50,000,000.00) by the extension to the Borrowers of a new term loan (the  Term Facility ) in the aggregate original principal amount of Fifteen Million and No/100 Dollars ($15,000,000.00), which increased the aggregate maximum
principal amount of the Original Loan (as increased, the  Loan ) from Thirty-five Million and No/100 Dollars ($35,000,000.00) to Fifty Million and No/100 Dollars ($50,000,000.00); and        WHEREAS  , on July 29, 2005, the Borrowers executed a Second Modification to Business Loan and Security Agreement and Other Loan
Documents in connection with the Borrowers obtaining unsecured senior subordinated debt from The Royal Bank of Scotland plc; and        WHEREAS  , the Loan is currently evidenced by (i) a certain Revolving Promissory Note dated May 4, 2004 (together with all extensions, renewals, modifications, amendments, replacements and substitutions thereof or
therefor, the  Citizens Revolving Note ), made by the Borrowers and payable to the order of Citizens Bank in the maximum principal amount of Twenty-five Million and No/100 Dollars ($25,000,000.00), (ii) a certain Revolving Promissory
Note dated May 4, 2004 (together with all extensions, renewals, modifications, amendments, replacements and substitutions thereof or therefor, the  First Horizon Revolving Note ), made by the Borrowers and payable to the order of
First Horizon in the maximum principal amount of Ten Million and No/100 Dollars ($10,000,000.00), (iii) a certain Swing Line Promissory Note dated May 4, 2004 made by the Borrowers and payable to the order of Citizens Bank, in the maximum
principal amount of Five Million and No/100 Dollars ($5,000,000.00), (iv) a certain Term Promissory Note dated March 15, 2005 (together with all extensions, renewals, modifications, amendments, replacements and substitutions thereof or
therefor, the  Citizens Term Note ), made by the Borrowers and payable to the order of Citizens Bank in the maximum principal amount of Ten Million and  

No/100 Dollars ($10,000,000.00), and (v) a certain Term Promissory Note dated March 15, 2005 (together with all extensions, renewals,
modifications, amendments, replacements, and substitutions thereof or therefor, the  First Horizon Term Note,  and together with the Citizens Revolving Note, the First Horizon Revolving Note, and the Citizens Term Note, the
 Notes ) made by the Borrowers and payable to the order of First Horizon in the maximum principal amount of Five Million and No/100 Dollars ($5,000,000.00), each secured by, among other things, (a) the Collateral described in the Loan
Agreement and (b) certain collateral documents, instruments and agreements executed, issued and/or delivered by one or more of the Borrowers to the Agent for the ratable benefit of the Lenders, in connection with the Loan (collectively, the
 Collateral Documents  and        WHEREAS  , pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance Agreement dated the date hereof, by
and between First Horizon and Citizens Bank, First Horizon transferred and assigned to Citizen s Bank all of First Horizon s interest in and to First Horizon s Percentage Interest in the Term Facility, the First Horizon Term Note and
the Loans outstanding under the Term Facility (the  Term Assignment  and        WHEREAS,   on the date hereof, and in
furtherance of the transactions constituting the Term Assignment, the Citizens Term Note and the First Horizon Term Note were consolidated into a certain Amended, Restated and Consolidated Term Promissory Note dated the date hereof, made by the
Borrowers and payable to the order of Citizens Bank (acting in its capacity as a Lender); and        WHEREAS,   pursuant to another
Assignment and Acceptance Agreement dated the date hereof by and between Citizens Bank and First Horizon, Citizens Bank transferred and assigned to First Horizon Five Million and No/100 Dollars ($5,000,000.00) of its interest in the Revolving
Facility Commitment Amount (the  Revolving Assignment         WHEREAS  , on the date hereof, and in furtherance of the
transaction constituting the Revolving Assignment, the maximum principal amount of the First Horizon Revolving Note was increased from Ten Million and No/100 Dollars ($10,000,000.00) to Fifteen Million and No/100 Dollars ($15,000,000.00) pursuant to
an Allonge of Promissory Note by and between the Borrower and First Horizon; and        WHEREAS  , on the date hereof and in
furtherance of the transaction constituting the Revolving Assignment, the maximum principal amount of the Citizens Revolving Note was decreased from Twenty Five Million and No/100 Dollars ($25,000,000.00) to Twenty Million and no/100 Dollars
($20,000,000.00) pursuant to an Allonge of Promissory Note by and between the Borrower and Citizens Bank; and        WHEREAS,   the
parties desire to enter into this Modification to memorialize the change of each Lender s Percentage resulting from the Term Assignment and the Revolving Assignment as hereinafter provided.            NOW THEREFORE  , for Ten Dollars ($10.00) and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:      1.  Recitals . The foregoing recitals are hereby incorporated herein by this
reference and made a part hereof, with the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein.      2.    Schedule 1   ,
attached to the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety, and    Schedule 1    attached to this Modification substituted in lieu thereof.   

3. The reference to One Million and No/100 Dollars ($1,000,000.00) in Section 7.8(c)(iii) of the
Loan Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with One Million Five Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($1,500,000.00).      4. Sections 7.14,
11.1(i) and 11.2 of the Loan Agreement are hereby deleted in their entirety and the words  Intentionally Omitted  substituted in lieu thereof. In addition, the words  and the below-referenced lockbox  in Section 11.1(ix) of
the Loan Agreement are hereby deleted.      5. Section 12.3 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by replacing Criss M. Kennedy with
Arlene Sullivan for purposes of notices to Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania, as Lender and as Agent.      6. The Borrowers hereby represent,
warrant, acknowledge and agree that as of the date hereof (a) all of the representations and warranties of the Borrowers contained in the Loan Agreement expressly qualified by a  materiality  standard are true and correct in all
respects as of the date hereof, and all of the representations and warranties of the Borrowers contained in the Loan Agreement not expressly qualified by a  materiality  standard are true and correct in all material respects as of the date
hereof (except with respect to those changes in facts and circumstances which are expressly permitted by the terms of the Loan Agreement or to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly relate solely to an earlier date), unless
the Borrowers are unable to remake and redate any such representation or warranty, in which case the Borrowers have previously disclosed the same to the Agent and the Lenders in writing, and such inability does not constitute or give rise to an
Event of Default; and (b) all schedules attached to the Loan Agreement with respect to any particular representation and warranty of the Borrowers set forth in the Loan Agreement (as modified) remain true, accurate and complete, as updated in
writing to the Agent as of the date of this Modification.      7. The Borrowers, and their respective representatives, successors and assigns,
hereby jointly and severally, knowingly and voluntarily RELEASE, DISCHARGE, and FOREVER WAIVE and RELINQUISH any and all claims, demands, obligations, liabilities, defenses, affirmative defenses, setoffs, counterclaims, actions, and causes of action
of whatsoever kind or nature, whether known or unknown, which they have, may have, or might have or may assert now or in the future against the Agent and/or the Lenders directly or indirectly, arising out of, based upon, or in any manner connected
with any transaction, event, circumstance, action, failure to act, or occurrence of any sort or type, in each case related to, arising from or in connection with the Loan, whether known or unknown, and which occurred, existed, was taken, permitted,
or begun prior to the date hereof (including, without limitation, any claim, demand, obligation, liability, defense, counterclaim, action or cause of action relating to or arising from the grant by the Borrowers to the Lenders of a security interest
in or encumbrance on collateral that is, was or may be subject to, or an agreement by which the Borrowers are bound and which contains, a prohibition on further mortgaging or encumbering the same). The Borrowers hereby acknowledge and agree that the
execution of this Modification by the Agent and the Lenders shall not constitute an acknowledgment of or an admission by the Agent and/or the Lenders of the existence of any such claims or of liability for any matter or precedent upon which any
liability may be asserted.      8. Except as expressly set forth herein, nothing contained in this Modification is intended to or shall
otherwise act to nullify, discharge, or release any obligation incurred in connection with the Notes, the Loan Agreement and/or the other Loan Documents or to waive or release any collateral given by the Borrowers to secure the Notes, nor shall this
Modification be deemed or considered to operate as a novation of the Notes, the Loan Agreement or the other Loan Documents. Except to the extent of any express conflict with this Modification or except as otherwise expressly contemplated by this
Modification, all of the terms and conditions of the Notes, the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect, and the same are hereby expressly approved, ratified and confirmed. In the event of any express
conflict between the terms and conditions of the Notes, the Loan Agreement or the  

other Loan Documents and this Modification, this Modification shall be controlling and the terms and conditions of such other documents shall be deemed to be
amended to conform with this Modification.      9. If any term, condition, or any part thereof, of this Modification, the Loan Agreement or of
the other Loan Documents shall for any reason be found or held to be invalid or unenforceable by any court or governmental agency of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the remainder of such term, provision
or condition nor any other term, provision, or condition of this Modification, the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and this Modification, the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall survive and be construed as if such invalid
or unenforceable term, provision or condition had not been contained therein.      10. The Borrowers acknowledge (a) that they have
participated in the negotiation of this Modification, and no provision of this Modification shall be construed against or interpreted to the disadvantage of any party hereto by any court or other governmental or judicial authority by reason of such
party having or being deemed to have structured, dictated or drafted such provision; (b) that each has had access to an attorney of its choosing in the negotiation of the terms of and in the preparation and execution of this Modification, and
each has had the opportunity to review, analyze, and discuss with its counsel this Modification, and the underlying factual matters relevant to this Modification, for a sufficient period of time prior to the execution and delivery hereof;
(c) that all of the terms of this Modification were negotiated at arm s length; (d) that this Modification was prepared and executed without fraud, duress, undue influence, or coercion of any kind exerted by any of the parties upon
the others; and (e) that the execution and delivery of this Modification by each of the Borrowers is its free and voluntary act and deed for the purposes contained herein.      11. This Modification shall be governed by the laws of the State of Maryland, and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto
and their respective successors and assigns.      12. This Modification may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be
deemed an original and all of which together shall be deemed one and the same instrument. Signature pages may be exchanged by facsimile and each party hereto agrees to be bound by its facsimile signature.      [The Remainder of This Page Intentionally Left Blank]   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned have executed this Modification as of the date first
above written.        

LENDER(S) :    

CITIZENS BANK OF PENNSYLVANIA, a Pennsylvania state chartered bank   

By:   
     
    /s/ Arlene M. Sullivan    
 
    Name:   
     
    Arlene M. Sullivan    
 
    Title:   
     
    Vice President    

FIRST HORIZON BANK, a division of First Tennessee Bank National Association   

By:   
     
    /s/ Gill Waller    
 
    Name:   
     
    Gill Waller    
 
    Title:   
     
    Senior Vice President    

AGENT :    

CITIZENS BANK OF PENNSYLVANIA, a Pennsylvania state chartered bank   

By:   
     
    /s/ Arlene M. Sullivan    
 
    Name:   
     
    Arlene M. Sullivan    
 
    Title:   
     
    Vice President    
 
   ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:       

BORROWERS :    

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION, a     Delaware
corporation    

By:   
     
    /s/ Douglas L. Cox    
 
    Name:   
     
    Douglas L. Cox    
 
    Title:   
     
    Secretary    

MACRO INTERNATIONAL INC., a Delaware corporation   

By:   
     
    /s/ Douglas L. Cox    
 
    Name:   
     
    Douglas L. Cox    
 
    Title:   
     
    Assistant Secretary    

ORC PROTEL, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company   

By:   
     
    /s/ Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Name:   
     
    Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Title:   
     
    Secretary    

SOCIAL AND HEALTH SERVICES, LTD., a Maryland corporation   

By:   
     
    /s/ Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Name:   
     
    Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Title:   
     
    Secretary    

ORC HOLDINGS, LTD., an English company   

By:   
     
    /s/ Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Name:   
     
    Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Title:   
     
    Authorized Signer    

O.R.C. INTERNATIONAL LTD, an English company   

By:   
     
    /s/ Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Name:   
     
    Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Title:   
     
    Authorized Signer    

</EX-10.25>

<EX-10.26>
 5
 dex1026.htm
 FOURTH MODIFICATION TO BUSINESS LOAN AGREEMENT

Fourth Modification to Business Loan Agreement 

Exhibit 10.26         FOURTH MODIFICATION TO BUSINESS LOAN           AND SECURITY AGREEMENT AND OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS
          THIS FOURTH MODIFICATION TO BUSINESS LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT AND OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS   (this
 Modification ), dated January 18, 2006, but effective for all purposes as of December 31, 2005, is made by and among (i) Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania, a Pennsylvania state chartered bank ( Citizens Bank ), acting
in its capacity as agent for the Lenders (the  Agent  (ii) Citizens Bank, acting in its individual capacity as Swing Line Lender (the  Swing Line Lender  (iii) Citizens Bank, acting in its individual capacity as a
Lender and First Horizon Bank, a division of First Tennessee Bank National Association ( First Horizon  and collectively with Citizens Bank, the  Lenders  and (iv) Opinion Research Corporation, a Delaware corporation,
Macro International Inc., a Delaware corporation, Social and Health Services, Ltd., a Maryland corporation, ORC Holdings, Ltd., an English Company, O.R.C. International Ltd., an English Company, and any other  Borrower  party to the
hereinafter referenced Loan Agreement from time to time (the  Borrowers )   1   . Capitalized terms used but not
defined herein shall have the meanings attributed to such terms in the Loan Agreement.         W   I   T   N   E 
 S   S   E   T   H       T   H   A   T :          WHEREAS  ,
on May 4, 2004, the Lenders extended to the Borrowers loans and certain other financial accommodations (collectively, the  Original Loan ) in the aggregate maximum principal amount of Thirty-five Million and No/100 Dollars
($35,000,000.00) pursuant to the terms and conditions of a certain Business Loan and Security Agreement dated as of May 4, 2004 (as the same may be modified or amended from time to time, the  Loan Agreement ), by and among the
Borrowers, the Agent, the Swing Line Lender and the Lenders; and       WHEREAS , pursuant to the terms of a certain First Modification to
Business Loan and Security Agreement and Other Loan Documents dated March 15, 2005 (the  First Modification ), the aggregate maximum principal amount of the Original Loan was increased (as increased, the  Loan ) from
Thirty-five Million and No/100 Dollars ($35,000,000.00) to Fifty Million and No/100 Dollars ($50,000,000.00) by the extension to the Borrowers of a new term loan in the aggregate original principal amount of Fifteen Million and No/100 Dollars
($15,000,000.00); and        WHEREAS  , pursuant to the terms of a certain Second Modification to Business Loan and Security
Agreement and Other Loan Documents dated July 29, 2005 (the  Second Modification ) the Loan was modified to permit the Borrowers to obtain financing in the form of unsecured senior subordinated debt from The Royal Bank of Scotland
plc; and        WHEREAS  , pursuant to the terms of a certain Third Modification to Business Loan and Security Agreement and Other
Loan Documents dated November 30, 2005 (the  Third Modification ) the Loan was further modified to, among other things, reallocate the Loan among the Lenders; and        WHEREAS  , the Loan is currently evidenced by (i) a certain Revolving Promissory Note dated May 4, 2004 (together with all
extensions, renewals, modifications, amendments, replacements and substitutions thereof or therefor, the  Citizens Revolving Note ), made by the Borrowers and payable to the order of Citizens Bank in the maximum principal amount of Twenty
Million and No/100 Dollars    

1     
  Note: The membership interests in ORC ProTel, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, were sold by Opinion Research Corporation on December 31, 2005, and ORC
ProTel, LLC is no longer a Borrower.     

($20,000,000.00), (ii) a certain Revolving Promissory Note dated May 4, 2004 (together with all extensions,
renewals, modifications, amendments, replacements and substitutions thereof or therefor, the  First Horizon Revolving Note ), made by the Borrowers and payable to the order of First Horizon in the maximum principal amount of Fifteen
Million and No/100 Dollars ($15,000,000.00), (iii) a certain Swing Line Promissory Note dated May 4, 2004 (together with all extensions, renewals, modifications, amendments, replacements and substitutions thereof or therefor, the
 Swing Line Note ) made by the Borrowers and payable to the order of Citizens Bank, in the maximum principal amount of Five Million and No/100 Dollars ($5,000,000.00), and (iv) a certain Amended, Restated and Consolidated Term
Promissory Note dated November 30, 2005 (together with all extensions, renewals, modifications, amendments, replacements and substitutions thereof or therefor, the  Citizens Term Note  and together with the Citizens Revolving Note,
the Swing Line Note and the First Horizon Revolving Note, the  Notes ), made by the Borrowers and payable to the order of Citizens Bank in the maximum principal amount of Fifteen Million and No/100 Dollars ($15,000,000.00), each secured
by, among other things, (a) the Collateral described in the Loan Agreement and (b) certain collateral documents, instruments and agreements executed, issued and/or delivered by one or more of the Borrowers to the Agent for the ratable
benefit of the Lenders, in connection with the Loan; and        WHEREAS,   the Borrowers have requested and the Lenders have agreed
to revise certain of the financial covenants of the Borrowers set forth in the Loan Agreement, as hereinafter provided, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.            NOW THEREFORE  , for Ten Dollars ($10.00) and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:      1.  Recitals . The foregoing recitals are hereby incorporated herein by this
reference and made a part hereof, with the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein.      2. The definition of  EBITDA  set
forth in the Section of the Loan Agreement titled  Certain Definitions  is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:        EBITDA   shall mean, as of the date of any determination, the consolidated net income of the Parent Company, including all Borrowers and Non-Borrower Subsidiaries,  plus  interest expense,  plus  taxes,
 plus  depreciation expense,  plus  amortization expense,  plus  any non-cash, non-recurring charges against income approved in writing by the Agent,  plus  any non-cash stock-option expenses,  minus  any non-cash gain (to
the extent included in determining net income),  minus  any dividends paid in accordance with Section 7.8(a) of this Agreement to the extent not deducted from net income, all as determined on a rolling four (4) quarter consolidated
basis in accordance with GAAP.          
   2   

3. Sections 6.15(c) and 6.15(g) set forth in the Loan Agreement are hereby deleted in their entirety, and
the following substituted in lieu thereof:       (c)  Leverage Ratio . The Borrowers and the Non-Borrower Subsidiaries will maintain
on a consolidated basis for each quarter ending during the periods specified below, a Leverage Ratio of not more than the following:       
    For purposes of the foregoing,  Leverage Ratio  shall mean, for each measurement period,
the ratio of the Borrower s and the Non-Borrower Subsidiaries  Total Debt to EBITDA. The Leverage Ratio shall be measured on the last day of each fiscal quarter throughout the term of the Loan.      (g)  Interest Coverage Ratio . The Borrowers and the Non-Borrower Subsidiaries will maintain an Interest Coverage Ratio, measured on the last day of
each fiscal quarter throughout the term of the Loan of: (i) at least 2.50 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter up to and including the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2006; (ii) at least 2.00 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarter ending
June 30, 2006 up to and including the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2007; and (iii) at least 2.50 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2007 and each fiscal quarter thereafter. For purposes of the foregoing,
 Interest Coverage Ratio  shall mean, for each measurement period, the ratio of EBITDA to the Borrowers  and the Non-Borrower Subsidiaries  cash interest expense during such period.       4. The following language is hereby added after the last sentence of Section 6.15(e) of the Loan Agreement:  Notwithstanding the foregoing, for
the fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2005, March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006, in lieu of measuring the continued profitability of the Borrowers and the Non-Borrower Subsidiaries based upon negative Consolidated Net Income, the
covenant of continued profitability of the Borrowers and the Non-Borrower Subsidiaries shall be violated if the Borrowers and the Non-Borrower Subsidiaries sustain or incur negative Consolidated Net Operating Income for such fiscal quarter, as
determined in accordance with GAAP.       5. Solely for the purpose of calculating the financial covenants set forth in Section 6.15
of the Loan Agreement for the fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2005, March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006, the Lenders hereby consent to the Borrowers adding-back the Operational Expenses and Losses (hereinafter defined) to the
Borrowers  EBITDA (without duplication) for the fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2005, March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006, as applicable, and for any period which includes such fiscal quarter. The consent by the Lenders to
the above-referenced add-back to the Borrowers  EBITDA constitutes a one-time waiver of the requirements of the Loan Agreement specific to the Operational Changes (hereinafter defined). Nothing contained herein shall constitute a waiver of any
other provision of the Loan Agreement or any other Loan Document. For purposes of this paragraph, (i) the term  Operational Changes  refers to the divestiture of ORC ProTel, LLC and the discontinued operations of the Borrowers in
Mexico and Korea; and (ii) the term  Operational Expenses and Losses  means, collectively, (a) those certain expenses incurred in connection with the Operational Changes, (b) the operating profits and losses incurred by ORC
ProTel, LLC during 2005, (c) the operating profits and losses of the Borrowers in Mexico and Korea during 2005 and 2006, and (d) those certain losses incurred in connection with the sale of ORC ProTel, LLC, all of which (i.e. all of the
items set forth in subsections (a) through (d)), on a consolidated basis will equal no more than Four Million Five Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($4,500,000.00).      6. Prior to or simultaneously with the execution of this Modification (and as a condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Modification), the Agent
and its counsel shall have received (i) a fully executed copy of a modification to the Senior Subordinated Note Purchase Agreement (the  Note Purchase  
       
   3   

Agreement ) dated as of July 29, 2005 ( RBS Modification ), executed by The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC, as agent for certain lender
parties thereto and the Borrowers, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and its counsel in all respects; and (ii) confirmation that all of the conditions precedent specified in the RBS Modification have been satisfied or waived.
     7. Simultaneously with the Borrowers  execution and delivery of this Modification (and as a condition precedent to the effectiveness
of this Modification), the Borrowers shall (a) pay to the Agent (for the ratable benefit of the Lenders), in immediately available funds, an administrative fee in the amount of Fifty-five Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($55,000.00), which fee the
Borrowers acknowledge has been fully earned by the Lenders; (b) pay to the Agent, in immediately available funds, all of the Agent s and Lenders  costs and expenses associated with this Modification and the transactions referenced
herein or contemplated hereby, including, without limitation, the Agent s and Lenders  reasonable legal fees and expenses; and (c) deliver to the Agent the other documents, instruments and agreements referenced herein.      8. The Borrowers hereby represent, warrant, acknowledge and agree that as of the date hereof (a) all accrued and unpaid interest and fees payable
with respect to the Revolving Facility, the Swing Line Outstandings and all Letters of Credit have been paid through the date hereof; (b) the Term Facility has a current outstanding principal balance of Twelve Million Seven Hundred Fifty
Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($12,750,000.00); (c) after giving effect to the transactions contemplated hereby, there are no set-offs or defenses against and no defaults under the Loan Agreement, any of the Notes or any other Loan Document;
(d) after giving effect to the transactions contemplated hereby, no act, event or condition has occurred which, with notice or the passage of time, or both, would constitute a default under the Loan Agreement, any of the Notes or any other Loan
Document; (e) all of the representations and warranties of the Borrowers contained in the Loan Agreement expressly qualified by a  materiality  standard are true and correct in all respects as of the date hereof, and all of the
representations and warranties of the Borrowers contained in the Loan Agreement not expressly qualified by a  materiality  standard are true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof (except with respect to those changes
in facts and circumstances which are expressly permitted by the terms of the Loan Agreement or to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly relate solely to an earlier date), unless the Borrowers are unable to remake and redate
any such representation or warranty, in which case the Borrowers have previously disclosed the same to the Agent and the Lenders in writing, and such inability does not constitute or give rise to an Event of Default; and (f) all schedules
attached to the Loan Agreement with respect to any particular representation and warranty of the Borrowers set forth in the Loan Agreement (as modified) remain true, accurate and complete, as updated in writing to the Agent as of the date of this
Modification      9. The Borrowers, and their respective representatives, successors and assigns, hereby jointly and severally, knowingly and
voluntarily RELEASE, DISCHARGE, and FOREVER WAIVE and RELINQUISH any and all claims, demands, obligations, liabilities, defenses, affirmative defenses, setoffs, counterclaims, actions, and causes of action of whatsoever kind or nature, whether known
or unknown, which they have, may have, or might have or may assert now or in the future against the Agent and/or the Lenders directly or indirectly, arising out of, based upon, or in any manner connected with any transaction, event, circumstance,
action, failure to act, or occurrence of any sort or type, in each case related to, arising from or in connection with the Loan, whether known or unknown, and which occurred, existed, was taken, permitted, or begun prior to the date hereof
(including, without limitation, any claim, demand, obligation, liability, defense, counterclaim, action or cause of action relating to or arising from the grant by the Borrowers to the Lenders of a security interest in or encumbrance on collateral
that is, was or may be subject to, or an agreement by which the Borrowers are bound and which contains, a prohibition on further mortgaging or encumbering the same). The Borrowers hereby acknowledge and agree that the execution of this Modification
by the Agent and the Lenders shall not constitute an acknowledgment of or an admission by the Agent and/or the Lenders of the existence of any such claims or of liability for any matter or precedent upon which any liability may be asserted.
        
   4   

10. Except as expressly set forth herein, nothing contained in this Modification is intended to or shall
otherwise act to nullify, discharge, or release any obligation incurred in connection with the Notes, the Loan Agreement and/or the other Loan Documents or to waive or release any collateral given by the Borrowers to secure the Notes, nor shall this
Modification be deemed or considered to operate as a novation of the Notes, the Loan Agreement or the other Loan Documents. Except to the extent of any express conflict with this Modification or except as otherwise expressly contemplated by this
Modification, all of the terms and conditions of the Notes, the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect, and the same are hereby expressly approved, ratified and confirmed. In the event of any express
conflict between the terms and conditions of the Notes, the Loan Agreement or the other Loan Documents and this Modification, this Modification shall be controlling and the terms and conditions of such other documents shall be deemed to be amended
to conform with this Modification.      11. If any term, condition, or any part thereof, of this Modification, the Loan Agreement or of the
other Loan Documents shall for any reason be found or held to be invalid or unenforceable by any court or governmental agency of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the remainder of such term, provision or
condition nor any other term, provision, or condition of this Modification, the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and this Modification, the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall survive and be construed as if such invalid or
unenforceable term, provision or condition had not been contained therein.      12. The Borrowers acknowledge that, at all times prior to and
through the date hereof, the Agent and the Lenders have acted in good faith and have conducted themselves in a commercially reasonable manner in its relationship with the Borrowers in connection with this Modification and in connection with the
obligations of the Borrowers to the Agent and the Lenders under the Loan; the Borrowers hereby waiving and releasing any claims to the contrary.      13. The Borrowers hereby acknowledge and agree that, from and after the date hereof, all references to the  Loan Agreement  set forth in any Loan Document shall mean the Loan Agreement, as modified pursuant to the First
Modification, the Second Modification, the Third Modification and this Modification, and that except as expressly modified hereby, the Loan Agreement shall be and remain unchanged and in full force and effect, and the same is hereby expressly
approved, ratified and confirmed.      14. The Borrowers acknowledge (a) that they have participated in the negotiation of this
Modification, and no provision of this Modification shall be construed against or interpreted to the disadvantage of any party hereto by any court or other governmental or judicial authority by reason of such party having or being deemed to have
structured, dictated or drafted such provision; (b) that each has had access to an attorney of its choosing in the negotiation of the terms of and in the preparation and execution of this Modification, and each has had the opportunity to
review, analyze, and discuss with its counsel this Modification, and the underlying factual matters relevant to this Modification, for a sufficient period of time prior to the execution and delivery hereof; (c) that all of the terms of this
Modification were negotiated at arm s length; (d) that this Modification was prepared and executed without fraud, duress, undue influence, or coercion of any kind exerted by any of the parties upon the others; and (e) that the
execution and delivery of this Modification by each of the Borrowers is its free and voluntary act and deed for the purposes contained herein.      15. This Modification shall be governed by the laws of the State of Maryland, and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.      16. This Modification may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall be deemed
one and the same instrument. Signature pages may be exchanged by facsimile and each party hereto agrees to be bound by its facsimile signature.         
   5   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned have executed this Modification as of the date first
above written.        

LENDER(S) :     

CITIZENS BANK OF PENNSYLVANIA, a     Pennsylvania state chartered bank    

By:  
     
    /s/ Arlene M. Sullivan    
 
    Name:   
     
    Arlene M. Sullivan    
 
    Title:   
     
    Vice President    

FIRST HORIZON BANK, a division of First     Tennessee Bank National Association    

By:  
     
    /s/ Gill Waller    
 
    Name:   
     
    Gill Waller    
 
    Title:   
     
    Senior Vice President    

AGENT :    

CITIZENS BANK OF PENNSYLVANIA, a     Pennsylvania state chartered bank    

By:  
     
    /s/ Arlene M. Sullivan    
 
    Name:   
     
    Arlene M. Sullivan    
 
    Title:   
     
    Vice President    

ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:    

BORROWERS  :    

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION, a     Delaware
corporation    

By:  
     
    /s/ Douglas L. Cox    
 
    Name:   
     
    Douglas L. Cox    
 
    Title:   
     
    Secretary    
       
   6   

MACRO INTERNATIONAL INC., a     Delaware corporation    

By:  
     
    /s/ Douglas L. Cox    
 
    Name:   
     
    Douglas L. Cox    
 
    Title:   
     
    Assistant Secretary    

SOCIAL AND HEALTH SERVICES, LTD., a     Maryland corporation    

By:  
     
    /s/ Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Name:   
     
    Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Title:   
     
    Secretary    

ORC HOLDINGS, LTD., an English company    

By:  
     
    /s/ Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Name:   
     
    Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Title:   
     
    Authorized Signer    

O.R.C. INTERNATIONAL LTD, an     English company    

By:  
     
    /s/ Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Name:   
     
    Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Title:   
     
    Authorized Signer    
       
   7   

</EX-10.26>

<EX-10.31>
 6
 dex1031.htm
 FIRST AMENDMENT TO SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT

First Amendment to Senior Subordinated Note Purchase Agreement 

Exhibit 10.31        FIRST AMENDMENT TO SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT       THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO SENIOR
SUBORDINATED NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT (this  First Amendment ) is entered into as of January 18, 2006 among (i) The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC ( RBOS ), acting in its capacity as the sole current Lender and as Agent for
the Lender pursuant to the hereinafter referenced Note Purchase Agreement; and (ii) Opinion Research Corporation, a Delaware corporation, MACRO International, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Social and Health Services, Ltd., a Maryland
corporation, ORC Holdings, Ltd., an English company, O.R.C. International Ltd., an English company, and any other  Borrower  party to the Note Purchase Agreement from time to time (the  Borrowers ).   1    Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Note Purchase Agreement.
      W   I   T   N   E   S   S   E   T   H :      WHEREAS, Borrowers, Agent and Lender are parties to that certain Senior Subordinated Note Purchase Agreement dated as of July 29, 2005 (the
 Note Purchase Agreement       WHEREAS, the Borrowers have requested and the Lenders have agreed to revise certain of the financial
covenants of the Borrowers set forth in the Note Purchase Agreement, as hereinafter provided, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements set forth herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     1.  Recitals . The foregoing recitals are hereby incorporated herein by this reference and made a part hereof, with the same force
and effect as if fully set forth herein.      2. The definition of  EBITDA  set forth in the Section of the Note Purchase Agreement
titled  Certain Definitions  is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:        EBITDA  shall
mean, as of the date of any determination, the consolidated net income of the Parent Company, including all Borrowers and Non-Borrower Subsidiaries,  plus  interest expense,  plus  taxes,  plus  depreciation expense,  plus 
amortization expense,  plus  any non-cash, non-recurring charges against    

1     
  Note: The membership interests in ORC ProTel, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, were sold by Opinion Research Corporation on December 31, 2005, and ORC
ProTel, LLC is no longer a Borrower under the Note Purchase Agreement.     

income approved in writing by the Agent,  plus  any non-cash stock-option expenses ,  minus 
any non-cash gain (to the extent included in determining net income),  minus  any dividends paid in accordance with Section 7.8(a) of this Agreement to the extent not deducted from net income, all as determined on a rolling four
(4) quarter consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.       3. Sections 6.15(b) and 6.15(c) set forth in the Note Purchase
Agreement are hereby deleted in their entirety, and the following substituted in lieu thereof:       (b)  Interest Coverage Ratio .
The Borrowers and the Non-Borrower Subsidiaries will maintain an Interest Coverage Ratio, measured on the last day of each fiscal quarter throughout the term of the Loan of: (i) at least 2.10 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter up to and including
the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2006; (ii) at least 1.70 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2006 up to and including the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2007; and (iii) at least 2.10 to 1.00 for the fiscal
quarter ending June 30, 2007 and each fiscal quarter thereafter. For purposes of the foregoing,  Interest Coverage Ratio  shall mean, for each measurement period, the ratio of EBITDA to the Borrowers  and the Non-Borrower
Subsidiaries  cash interest expense during such period.        (c)  Leverage Ratio . The Borrowers and the Non-Borrower
Subsidiaries will maintain on a consolidated basis for each quarter ending during the periods specified below, a Leverage Ratio of not more than the following:       
    For purposes of the foregoing,  Leverage Ratio  shall mean, for each measurement period,
the ratio of the Borrower s and the Non-Borrower Subsidiaries  Total Debt to EBITDA. The Leverage Ratio shall be measured on the last day of each fiscal quarter throughout the term of the Loan.          
   -2-   

4. Solely for the purpose of calculating the financial covenants set forth in Section 6.15 of the
Note Purchase Agreement for the fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2005, March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006, the Lenders hereby consent to the Borrowers adding-back the Operational Expenses and Losses (hereinafter defined) to the
Borrowers  EBITDA (without duplication) for the fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2005, March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006, as applicable, and for any period which includes such fiscal quarter. The consent by the Lenders to
the above-referenced add-back to the Borrowers  EBITDA constitutes a one-time waiver of the requirements of the Note Purchase Agreement specific to the Operational Changes (hereinafter defined). Nothing contained herein shall constitute a
waiver of any other provision of the Note Purchase Agreement or any other Loan Document. For purposes of this paragraph, (i) the term  Operational Changes  refers to the divestiture of ORC ProTel, LLC and the discontinued operations
of the Borrowers in Mexico and Korea; and (ii) the term  Operational Expenses and Losses  means, collectively, (a) those certain expenses incurred in connection with the Operational Changes, (b) the operating profits and
losses incurred by ORC ProTel, LLC during 2005, (c ) the operating profits and losses of the Borrowers in Mexico and Korea during 2005 and 2006, and (d) those certain losses incurred in connection with the sale of ORC ProTel, LLC, all of which
(i.e., all of the items set forth in subsections (a) through (d)) on a consolidated basis, will equal no more than Four Million Five Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($4,500,000.00).      5. Simultaneously with the execution of this First Amendment (and as a condition precedent to the effectiveness of this First Amendment), the Agent and
its counsel shall have received (i) a fully executed copy of that certain Fourth Modification to Business Loan and Security Agreement and Other Loan Documents dated as of May 4, 2004 (as amended, the  Loan and Security
Agreement ), executed by Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania , as agent for certain lender parties thereto and the Borrowers (the  Citizens Modification ), in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and its counsel in all respects; and
(ii) confirmation that all of the conditions precedent specified in the Citizens Modification have been satisfied or waived.      6.
Simultaneously with the Borrowers  execution and delivery of this First Amendment (and as a condition precedent to the effectiveness of this First Amendment), the Borrowers shall (a) pay to the Agent (for the ratable benefit of the
Lenders), in immediately available funds, an administrative fee in the amount of Twenty Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($20,000.00), which fee the Borrowers acknowledge has been fully earned by the Lenders; (b) pay to the Agent, in immediately
available funds, all of the Agent s and Lenders  costs and expenses associated with this First Amendment and the transactions referenced herein or contemplated hereby, including, without limitation, the Agent s and Lenders 
reasonable legal fees and expenses; and (c) deliver to the Agent the other documents, instruments and agreements referenced herein.      7. The Borrowers hereby represent, warrant, acknowledge and agree that as of the date hereof (a) all accrued and unpaid interest and fees payable with respect to the Notes due and payable on or prior to the date hereof have been paid;
(b) the Notes have a  
       
   -3-   

current outstanding principal balance of Twenty Million and No/100 Dollars ($20,000,000.00); (c) after giving effect to the transactions contemplated
hereby, there are no set-offs or defenses against and no defaults under the Note Purchase Agreement, any of the Notes or any other Loan Document; (d) after giving effect to the transactions contemplated hereby, no act, event or condition has
occurred which, with notice or the passage of time, or both, would constitute a default under the Note Purchase Agreement, any of the Notes or any other Loan Document; (e) all of the representations and warranties of the Borrowers contained in
the Note Purchase Agreement expressly qualified by a  materiality  standard are true and correct in all respects as of the date hereof, and all of the representations and warranties of the Borrowers contained in the Note Purchase Agreement
not expressly qualified by a  materiality  standard are true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof (except with respect to those changes in facts and circumstances which are expressly permitted by the terms of the Note
Purchase Agreement or to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly relate solely to an earlier date), unless the Borrowers are unable to remake and redate any such representation or warranty, in which case the Borrowers have
previously disclosed the same to the Agent and the Lenders in writing, and such inability does not constitute or give rise to an Event of Default; and (f) all schedules attached to the Note Purchase Agreement with respect to any particular
representation and warranty of the Borrowers set forth in the Note Purchase Agreement (as modified) remain true, accurate and complete, as updated in writing to the Agent as of the date of this First Amendment      8. The Borrowers, and their respective representatives, successors and assigns, hereby jointly and severally, knowingly and voluntarily RELEASE,
DISCHARGE, and FOREVER WAIVE and RELINQUISH any and all claims, demands, obligations, liabilities, defenses, affirmative defenses, setoffs, counterclaims, actions, and causes of action of whatsoever kind or nature, whether known or unknown, which
they have, may have, or might have or may assert now or in the future against the Agent and/or the Lender directly or indirectly, arising out of, based upon, or in any manner connected with any transaction, event, circumstance, action, failure to
act, or occurrence of any sort or type, in each case related to, arising from or in connection with the Loan, whether known or unknown, and which occurred, existed, was taken, permitted, or begun prior to the date hereof (including, without
limitation, any claim, demand, obligation, liability, defense, counterclaim, action or cause of action relating to or arising from the grant by the Borrowers to the Lenders of a security interest in or encumbrance on collateral that is, was or may
be subject to, or an agreement by which the Borrowers are bound and which contains, a prohibition on further mortgaging or encumbering the same). The Borrowers hereby acknowledge and agree that the execution of this First Amendment by the Agent and
the Lenders shall not constitute an acknowledgment of or an admission by the Agent and/or the Lenders of the existence of any such claims or of liability for any matter or precedent upon which any liability may be asserted.      9. Except as expressly set forth herein, nothing contained in this First Amendment is intended to or shall otherwise act to nullify, discharge, or
release any  
       
   -4-   

obligation incurred in connection with the Notes, the Note Purchase Agreement and/or the other Loan Documents or to waive or release any collateral given by
the Borrowers to secure the Notes, nor shall this First Amendment be deemed or considered to operate as a novation of the Notes, the Note Purchase Agreement or the other Loan Documents. Except to the extent of any express conflict with this First
Amendment or except as otherwise expressly contemplated by this First Amendment, all of the terms and conditions of the Notes, the Note Purchase Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect, and the same are hereby
expressly approved, ratified and confirmed. In the event of any express conflict between the terms and conditions of the Notes, the Note Purchase Agreement or the other Loan Documents and this First Amendment, this First Amendment shall be
controlling and the terms and conditions of such other documents shall be deemed to be amended to conform with this First Amendment.      10.
If any term, condition, or any part thereof, of this First Amendment, the Note Purchase Agreement or of the other Loan Documents shall for any reason be found or held to be invalid or unenforceable by any court or governmental agency of competent
jurisdiction, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the remainder of such term, provision or condition nor any other term, provision, or condition of this First Amendment, the Note Purchase Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and
this First Amendment, the Note Purchase Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall survive and be construed as if such invalid or unenforceable term, provision or condition had not been contained therein.      11. The Borrowers acknowledge that, at all times prior to and through the date hereof, the Agent and the Lenders have acted in good faith and have
conducted themselves in a commercially reasonable manner in its relationship with the Borrowers in connection with this First Amendment and in connection with the obligations of the Borrowers to the Agent and the Lenders under the Loan; the
Borrowers hereby waiving and releasing any claims to the contrary.      12. The Borrowers hereby acknowledge and agree that, from and after the
date hereof, all references to the  Note Purchase Agreement  set forth in any Loan Document shall mean the Note Purchase Agreement, as modified pursuant to this First Amendment, and that except as expressly modified hereby, the Note
Purchase Agreement shall be and remain unchanged and in full force and effect, and the same is hereby expressly approved, ratified and confirmed.      13. The Borrowers acknowledge (a) that they have participated in the negotiation of this First Amendment, and no provision of this First Amendment shall be construed against or interpreted to the disadvantage of any party hereto by any
court or other governmental or judicial authority by reason of such party having or being deemed to have structured, dictated or drafted such provision; (b) that each has had access to an attorney of its choosing in the negotiation of the terms
of and in the preparation and execution of this First Amendment, and each has had the opportunity to review, analyze, and discuss with its counsel this First Amendment, and the underlying factual matters relevant to this First Amendment,  
       
   -5-   

for a sufficient period of time prior to the execution and delivery hereof; (c) that all of the terms of this First Amendment were negotiated at
arm s length; (d) that this First Amendment was prepared and executed without fraud, duress, undue influence, or coercion of any kind exerted by any of the parties upon the others; and (e) that the execution and delivery of this First
Amendment by each of the Borrowers is its free and voluntary act and deed for the purposes contained herein.      14. This First Amendment
shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York, and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.      15. This First Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall be
deemed one and the same instrument. Signature pages may be exchanged by facsimile and each party hereto agrees to be bound by its facsimile signature.      [The Remainder of This Page Intentionally Left Blank]         
   -6-   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Amendment to be duly executed and delivered
by their duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.        

BORROWERS :    

OPINION RESEARCH CORPORATION,     a Delaware
corporation    

By:   
     
    /s/ Douglas L. Cox    
 
    Name:   
     
    Douglas L. Cox    
 
    Title:   
     
    Secretary    

MACRO INTERNATIONAL INC.,     a Delaware
corporation    

By:   
     
    /s/ Douglas L. Cox    
 
    Name:   
     
    Douglas L. Cox    
 
    Title:   
     
    Assistant Secretary    

SOCIAL AND HEALTH SERVICES, LTD.,     a Maryland
corporation    

By:   
     
    /s/ Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Name:   
     
    Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Title:   
     
    Secretary    

ORC HOLDINGS, LTD.,     an English
company    

By:   
     
    /s/ Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Name:   
     
    Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Title:   
     
    Authorized signer    
 
   [Signature Page to First Amendment]   

O.R.C. INTERNATIONAL LTD,     an English
company    

By:   
     
    /s/ Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Name:   
     
    Kevin P. Croke    
 
    Title:   
     
    Authorized signer    

AGENT :    

THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC   

By:   
     
    /s/ Andrew S. Weinberg    
 
    Name:   
     
    Andrew S. Weinberg    
 
    Title:   
     
    Senior Vice President    

LENDER(S) :    

THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC   

By:   
     
    /s/ Andrew S. Weinberg    
 
    Name:   
     
    Andrew S. Weinberg    
 
    Title:   
     
    Senior Vice President    
 
   [Signature Page to First Amendment]   

</EX-10.31>

<EX-21.1>
 7
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Exhibit 21.1        Subsidiaries of the Registrant        

*  
  50% of the voting shares are controlled by the Registrant     

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 8
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF GRANT THORNTON LLP

Consent of Grant Thornton LLP 

Exhibit 23.1       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      We have issued our report dated March 8, 2006,
accompanying the consolidated financial statements and schedule included in the Annual Report of Opinion Research Corporation on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference of said report in
the Registration Statements of Opinion Research Corporation on Forms S-8 (File No. 333-63485, effective September 16, 1998; File No. 333-45412, effective September 8, 2000; File No. 333-45412, Post-Effective Amendment effective April 6, 2001; File
No. 333-46530, effective September 25, 2000; File No. 333-64630, effective July 5, 2001; File No. 333-74482, effective December 4, 2001).          /s/ Grant Thornton LLP      Philadelphia, Pennsylvania      March 30, 2006   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 9
 dex232.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Consent of Ernst   Young LLP 

Exhibit 23.2       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-63485) pertaining to the 1997 Stock Incentive Plan of Opinion Research Corporation, Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-45412) pertaining to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of Opinion Research Corporation,
Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-46530) pertaining to the Stock Purchase Plan for Non-Employee Directors and Designated Employees of Opinion Research Corporation, and Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-64630) pertaining to
the Employee Share Ownership Plan of ORC Holdings, Ltd. of our report dated March 30, 2006, with respect to the consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity and cash flows and schedule of Opinion Research Corporation for the
year ended December 31, 2003 included in its Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2005.      /s/
Ernst   Young LLP      MetroPark, New Jersey      March 30, 2006   

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

Certification of CEO 

Exhibit 31.1       CERTIFICATION      I, John F. Short, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Opinion Research
Corporation, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Opinion Research Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(c)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 30, 2006   
     
    Signed:   
     
    /s/ John F. Short    

Name:   
     
  John F. Short   

Title:   
     
  Chairman and CEO   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

Certification of CFO 

Exhibit 31.2       CERTIFICATION      I, Douglas L. Cox, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Opinion Research Corporation, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Opinion Research Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(c)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 30, 2006   
     
    Signed:   
     
    /s/ Douglas L. Cox    

Name:   
     
    Douglas L. Cox    

Title:   
     
    Executive Vice President and     Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CEO CERTIFICATION

Section 906 CEO Certification 

Exhibit 32.1       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,      AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF      THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002      In connection with the Annual
Report of Opinion Research Corporation (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, John F. Short,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.       

Date: March 30, 2006   
     
    Signed:   
     
    /s/ John F. Short    

Name:   
     
    John F. Short    

Title:   
     
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 906 CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 906 CFO Certification 

Exhibit 32.2       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,      AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF      THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002      In connection with the Annual
Report of Opinion Research Corporation (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Douglas L. Cox,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: March 30, 2006   
     
    Signed:   
     
    /s/ Douglas L. Cox    

Name:   
     
    Douglas L. Cox    

Title:   
     
    Executive Vice President and     Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-32.2>

