<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_910467_0000950133-06-001605_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>422204</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>134474</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>179560</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>28</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950133-06-001605.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331142739
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950133-06-001605
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND LP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000910467
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				521823554
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-22260
		FILM NUMBER:		06727814

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		210 W PENNSYLVANIA AVE
		STREET 2:		STE 770
		CITY:			BALTIMORE
		STATE:			MD
		ZIP:			21204
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4102963301

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GgXcnWtJcsXOL2it7OI2erdCG36eSCr7JryoDPFHrzjvmKVpbv4BnupiPC2Btcm+
 HxtyJ1XG2n7x1rsCkhs58w==

 0000950133-06-001605.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 w19255e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

(Mark One)

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   NO FEE
REQUIRED    

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005

Commission File Number 0-22260 and 2-84126 

OR 

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   NO FEE REQUIRED    

For the transition period from                        to                       

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P.  

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE  
       
      52-1823554  

(State or other jurisdiction of

(IRS Employer Identification Number) 

incorporation or organization) 

Registrant s
telephone number, including area code:   (410) 296-3301  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:   None  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:

Units of Limited Partnership Interest   
(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act. 
Yes               No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. 
Yes               No    

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 
Yes               No    

Indicate by check mark if the disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the Registrant s knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part II of this Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated file, an accelerated filer, or
a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerate filer       Accelerated filer       Non-accelerated filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). 
Yes               No    

The Registrant has no voting stock. As of December 31, 2005 there were 1,720,974.089 Units of
General and Limited Partnership Interest issued and outstanding.

Total number of pages 45. Consecutive page numbers on which exhibits commence:  5. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

1-2 

ITEM 1A. RISKS FACTORS

2-9 

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

9 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

9 

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

9 

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

10 

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

10 

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

10-11 

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

11-18 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

19-24 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

24 

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE

24 

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

24 

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

24 

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

24-26 

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

26 

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

26 

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

26 

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

27 

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

27-28 

SIGNATURES

CERTIFICATIONS

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   Prospectus dated July 11, 2005 included within the
Post-Effective Amendment Number 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-119259),
incorporated by reference into Parts I, II, III and IV.

PART I 

Item 1.    Business  

Campbell Strategic Allocation Fund, L.P. (the  Registrant  or the  Fund ) is a limited
partnership, which was organized on May 11, 1993 under the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited
Partnership Act. The Registrant operates as a commodity investment pool, whose purpose is to trade
speculatively in the U.S. and international futures, forward, option and swap markets.
Specifically, the Fund trades a portfolio primarily focused on financial futures, which are
instruments designed to hedge or speculate on changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates or
stock index values. A secondary emphasis is on metals and energy values. The general partner
and trading advisor of the Registrant is Campbell   Company, Inc. ( Campbell   Company ). The
Registrant s operations are regulated by the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act, the
regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the rules of the National Futures
Association.

The Registrant originally filed a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for the sale of a minimum of $2,500,000 and a maximum of $25,000,000 in Units of Limited
Partnership Interest at $1,000 each, which registration statement was effective on January 12,
1994. The Fund has since filed additional registration statements with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission to bring the sum of existing and offered Units of Limited Partnership Interest
to a maximum of approximately $6,410,000,000 through December 2004. The Unit selling price during
the initial offering period, which lasted for approximately 90 days and ended on April 15, 1994,
was $1,000. Since April 15, 1994, Units of Limited Partnership Interest of the Fund have been
offered on an ongoing basis during the Fund s continuing offering period. During the continuing
offering period, subscriptions are accepted monthly and proceeds are transferred to bank and
brokerage accounts for trading purposes. The Unit selling price during the continuing offering
period is the net asset value per unit as of the last business day of the month in which the
subscription is accepted.

A total of $5,104,056,650 has been raised in the initial and continuing offering periods
through December 31, 2005.

In addition to making all trading decisions in its capacity as trading advisor, Campbell  
Company conducts and manages all aspects of the business and administration of the Registrant in
its role as general partner.

The Registrant will be terminated and dissolved promptly thereafter upon the happening of the
earlier of: (a) the expiration of the Registrant s stated term of December 31, 2023; (b) an
election to dissolve the Registrant at any time by Limited Partners owning more than 50% of the
Units then outstanding; (c) the withdrawal of Campbell   Company, unless one or more new general
partners have been elected or appointed pursuant to the Amended Agreement of Limited Partnership
(d) Campbell   Company determines that the purpose of the Fund cannot be fulfilled; or (e) any
event which shall make unlawful the continuing existence of the Registrant.

Regulation  

Under the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (the  Act ), commodity exchanges and commodity
futures trading are subject to regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the
 CFTC ). The National Futures Association (the  NFA ), a registered futures association under the
Act, is the only non-exchange self-regulatory organization for commodity industry professionals.
The CFTC has delegated to the NFA responsibility for the registration of  commodity trading
advisors,   commodity pool operators,   futures commission merchants,   introducing brokers  and
their respective associated persons and  floor brokers.  The Act requires  commodity pool
operators,  and  commodity trading advisors,  such as Campbell   Company, and commodity brokers or
 futures commission merchants,  such as the Registrant s commodity broker, to be registered and to
comply with various reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Campbell   Company and the
Registrant s commodity broker are members of the NFA. The CFTC may suspend a commodity pool
operator s or commodity trading advisor s registration if it finds that its trading practices tend
to disrupt orderly market conditions, or as the result of violations of the Commodity Exchange Act
or rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. In the event Campbell   Company s registration as
a commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor were terminated or suspended, Campbell  
Company would be unable to continue to manage the business

1

of the Registrant. Should Campbell   Company s registration be suspended, termination of
the Registrant might result.

In addition to such registration requirements, the CFTC and certain commodity exchanges have
established limits on the maximum net long and net short positions which any person, including the
Registrant, may hold or control in particular commodities. Most exchanges also limit the maximum
changes in futures contract prices that may occur during a single trading day. The Registrant also
trades in dealer markets for forward and swap contracts, which are not regulated by the CFTC.
Federal and state banking authorities also do not regulate forward trading or forward dealers. In
addition, the Registrant trades on foreign commodity exchanges, which are not subject to regulation
by any United States government agency.

Operations  

A description of the business of the Registrant, including trading approach, rights and
obligations of the Partners, and compensation arrangements is contained in the Prospectus under
 Summary,   The Risks You Face,    Campbell   Company, Inc.,   Conflicts of Interest  and  Charges
to the Fund,  and such description is incorporated herein by reference from the Prospectus.

The Registrant conducts its business in one industry segment, the speculative trading of
futures, forwards and swap contracts. The Registrant is a market participant in the  managed
futures  industry. The managed futures industry has grown substantially in the previous ten years.
Market participants include all types of investors, such as corporations, employee benefit plans,
individuals and foreign investors. Service providers of the managed futures industry include (a)
pool operators, which conduct and manage all aspects of trading funds (except trading decisions),
such as the Registrant, (b) trading advisors, which make the specific trading decisions, and (c)
commodity brokers, which execute and clear the trades pursuant to the instructions of the trading
advisor. The Registrant has no employees, and does not engage in the sale of goods or services.

The Registrant engages in financial instrument trading in approximately 50 financial
instrument contracts on domestic and international markets. All of the Fund s assets are currently
allocated to the Financial, Metal   Energy Large Portfolio which is concentrated in the financial
markets such as interest rates, foreign exchange and stock indices, as well as metals and energy
products. As of March 2006, the Fund s assets are allocated to the different market sectors in
approximately the following manner: 52% to currencies, 27% to interest rates, 10% to energy
products, 9% to stock indices, and 2% to metals. The contracts traded by the Registrant will
fluctuate from time to time.

The Registrant may, in the future, experience increased competition for the futures and other
contracts in which it trades. Campbell   Company will recommend similar or identical trades for
other accounts under its management. Such competition may also increase due to the widespread
utilization of computerized methods similar to those used by Campbell   Company.

The Fund files quarterly, annual and current reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission
( SEC ). These reports are available to read and copy at the SEC s Public Reference Facilities in
Washington, D.C. at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC s toll
free number, 1-800-SEC-0330, for further information. The Fund does not maintain a website where
these reports are posted. However, the Fund s filings are posted on the SEC s website at
 http://www.sec.gov. 

Item 1A.    Risk Factors  

The following is a discussion of the risk factors applicable to the Registrant:

You Could Possibly Lose Your Total Investment in the Fund 

Futures, forward and option contracts have a high degree of price variability and are subject
to occasional rapid and substantial changes. Consequently, you could lose all or a substantial
amount of your investment in the Fund.

2

The Fund is Highly Leveraged 

Because the amount of margin funds necessary to be deposited in order to enter into a futures,
forward or option contract position is typically about 2% to 10% of the total value of the
contract, Campbell   Company is able to hold positions in the Fund s account with face values equal
to several times the Fund s net assets. The ratio of margin to equity is typically 10% to 20%, but
can range from 5% to 30%. As a result of this leveraging, even a small movement in the price of a
contract can cause major losses.

Your Investment Could be Illiquid 

Futures, forward and option positions cannot always be liquidated at the desired price. The
prices at which a sale or purchase occur may differ from the prices expected because there may be a
delay between receiving a quote and executing a trade, particularly in circumstances where a market
has limited trading volume and prices are often quoted for relatively limited quantities. A market
disruption, such as when foreign governments may take or be subject to political actions which
disrupt the markets in their currency or major exports, can also make it difficult to liquidate a
position. In addition, most U.S. futures exchanges have established  daily price fluctuation
limits  which preclude the execution of trades at prices outside of the limit, and, from time to
time, the CFTC or the exchanges may suspend trading in market disruption circumstances. In these
cases, it is possible that Campbell   Company, as trading advisor, could be required to maintain a
losing position that it otherwise would exit and incur significant losses or be unable to establish
a position and miss a profit opportunity.

Unexpected market illiquidity has caused major losses in recent years in such sectors as
emerging markets and mortgage-backed securities. There can be no assurance that the same will not
happen to the Fund at any time or from time to time. The large size of the positions which Campbell
  Company, as trading advisor, acquires for the Fund increases the risk of illiquidity by both
making its positions more difficult to liquidate and increasing the losses incurred while trying to
do so.

Also, there is no secondary market for the units and none is expected to develop. While the
units have redemption rights, there are restrictions. For example, redemptions can occur only at
the end of a month. If a large number of redemption requests were to be received at one time, the
Fund might have to liquidate positions to satisfy the requests. Such a forced liquidation could
adversely affect the Fund and consequently your investment.

Transfers of interest in the units are subject to limitations, such as 30 days  advance notice
of any intent to transfer. Also, Campbell   Company may deny a request to transfer if it determines
that the transfer may result in adverse legal or tax consequences for the Fund.

Forward and Option Transactions are Over-the-Counter, are Not Regulated and are Subject to Credit
Risk 

The Fund trades forward and option contracts in foreign currencies. Such contracts are
typically traded  over-the-counter  through a dealer market, which is dominated by major money
center and investment banks, and are not regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission ( CFTC ). Thus, you do not receive the protection of CFTC regulation or the
statutory scheme of the Commodity Exchange Act in connection with this trading activity by the
Fund. The market for forward and option contracts relies upon the integrity of market participants
in lieu of the additional regulation imposed by the CFTC on participants in the futures markets.
This regulation includes, for example, trading practices and other customer protection
requirements, and minimum financial and trade reporting requirements. The absence of regulation
could expose the Fund in certain circumstances to significant losses in the event of trading abuses
or financial failure by participants in the forward and option markets which it might otherwise
have avoided. Also, the Fund faces the risk of nonperformance by its counterparties to forward and
option contracts, and such nonperformance may cause some or all of its gains to remain unrealized.

The Fund has a substantial portion of its assets on deposit with financial institutions. In
the event of a financial institution s insolvency, recovery of Fund assets on deposit may be
limited to account insurance or other protection afforded such deposits, if any. Campbell   Company
seeks to minimize credit risk primarily by

3

depositing and maintaining the Fund s assets at financial institutions and brokers that
Campbell   Company believes to be creditworthy.

Options on Futures and Over-the-Counter Contracts are Speculative and Highly Leveraged 

Options on futures and over-the-counter contracts may be used by the Fund to generate premium
income or capital gains. The buyer of an option risks losing the entire purchase price (the
premium) of the option. The writer (seller) of an option risks losing the difference between the
premium received for the option and the price of the commodity, futures or forward contract
underlying the option which the writer must purchase or deliver upon exercise of the option (which
losses can be unlimited). Specific market movements of the commodity, futures or forward contracts
underlying an option cannot accurately be predicted. Successful options trading requires an
accurate assessment of near-term volatility in the underlying instruments, as that volatility is
immediately reflected in the price of the option. Correct assessment of market volatility can
therefore be of much greater significance in trading options than it is in trading futures and
forwards, where volatility may not have as great an effect on price.

An Investment in the Fund May Not Diversify an Overall Portfolio 

Historically, alternative investments such as managed futures funds have been generally
non-correlated to the performance of other asset classes such as stocks and bonds. Non-correlation
means that there is no statistically valid relationship between the past performance of futures,
forward, option and swap contracts, on the one hand, and stocks or bonds, on the other hand.
Non-correlation should not be confused with negative correlation, where the performance of two
asset classes would be exactly opposite.

Because of this non-correlation, the Fund cannot be expected to be automatically profitable
during unfavorable periods for the stock market or vice versa. The futures, forward, option and
swap markets are fundamentally different from the securities markets in that for every gain in
futures, forward, option and swap trading, there is an equal and offsetting loss. If the Fund does
not perform in a manner non-correlated with the general financial markets or does not perform
successfully, you will obtain no diversification benefits by investing in the units and the Fund
may have no gains to offset your losses from other investments.

Trading Risks  

Campbell   Company Analyzes Primarily Technical Market Data 

The trading systems used by the general partner for the Fund are primarily technical. The
profitability of trading under these systems depends on, among other things, the occurrence of
significant price movements, up or down, in futures, forward and option prices. Such price
movements may not develop; there have been periods in the past without such price movements.

The likelihood of the units being profitable could be materially diminished during periods
when events external to the markets themselves have an important impact on prices. During such
periods, Campbell   Company s historic price analysis could establish positions on the wrong side
of the price movements caused by such events.

Increased Competition from Other Trend-Following Traders Could Reduce Campbell   Company s
Profitability 

There has been a dramatic increase over the past 10 to 15 years in the amount of assets
managed by trend-following trading systems like some of the Campbell   Company programs. In 1980,
the assets in the managed futures industry were estimated at approximately $300 million; by the end
of 2004, this estimate had risen to approximately $131.9 billion. Increased trading competition
from other trend-following traders could operate to

4

the detriment of the Fund. It may become more
difficult for the Fund to implement its trading strategy if other
trading advisors using technical systems are, at the same time, also attempting to initiate or
liquidate futures, forward, option or swap positions, or otherwise alter trading patterns.

Speculative Position Limits May Alter Trading Decisions for the Fund 

The CFTC has established limits on the maximum net long or net short positions which any
person may hold or control in certain futures contracts. Some exchanges also have established such
limits. All accounts controlled by the general partner, including the account of the Fund, are
combined for speculative position limit purposes. If positions in those accounts were to approach
the level of the particular speculative position limit, such limits could cause a modification of
the general partner s trading decisions for the Fund or force liquidation of certain futures
positions. Either of these actions may not be in the best interest of the investors.

Increase in Assets Under Management May Make Profitable Trading More Difficult 

The general partner s current equity under management is at or near its all-time high. The
general partner has not agreed to limit the amount of additional equity which it may manage, and is
actively engaged in raising assets for existing and new accounts, including the Fund. The more
equity Campbell   Company manages, the more difficult it may be for Campbell   Company to trade
profitably because of the difficulty of trading larger positions without adversely affecting prices
and performance. Accordingly, such increases in equity under management may require Campbell  
Company to modify its trading decisions for the Fund which could have a detrimental affect on your
investment. Such considerations may also cause Campbell   Company to eliminate smaller markets from
consideration for inclusion in its Financial, Metal   Energy Portfolio, reducing the range of
markets in which trading opportunities may be pursued. Campbell   Company reserves the right to
make distributions of profits to limited partners in an effort to control asset growth. In
addition, Campbell   Company may have an incentive to favor other accounts because the compensation
received from some other accounts does exceed the compensation it receives from managing the Fund s
account. Because records with respect to other accounts are not accessible to limited partners, the
limited partners will not be able to determine if Campbell   Company is favoring other accounts.

Investors Will Not be Able to Review the Fund s Holdings on a Daily Basis 

The general partner makes the Fund s trading decisions. While the general partner receives
daily trade confirmations from the futures broker and over-the-counter counterparty, the Fund s
trading results are reported to limited partners monthly. Accordingly, an investment in the Fund
does not offer limited partners the same transparency, i.e., an ability to review all investment
positions daily, that a personal trading account offers.

Tax Risks  

Investors are Taxed Based on Their Share of Fund Income and Gain 

Investors are taxed each year on their share of the Fund s income and gain, if any,
irrespective of whether they redeem any units or receive any cash distribution from the Fund. The
general partner has the authority to make such distributions at any time in its sole discretion.

Tax Could be Due from Investors on Their Share of the Fund s Ordinary Income Despite Overall Losses 

Investors may be required to pay tax on their allocable share of the Fund s ordinary income,
which is the Fund s interest income and gain on some foreign futures contracts and certain other
investment assets, even though the Fund incurs overall losses. Capital losses can be used only to
offset capital gains and, in the case of non-corporate investors, $3,000 of ordinary income each
year. Consequently, if an individual investor were allocated $5,000 of ordinary income and $10,000
of capital losses, the investor would owe tax on $2,000 of

5

ordinary income even though the investor
would have a $5,000 economic loss for the year. The $7,000 unused
capital loss could be used in subsequent years to offset capital gain and ordinary income, but
subject to the same annual limitation on its deductibility against ordinary income.

There Could be a Limit on the Deductibility of Management and Performance Fees 

Although the Fund treats the management and performance fees paid to the general partner as
ordinary and necessary business expenses, upon audit, the Fund may be required to treat such fees
as  investment advisory fees  if the Fund s trading activities did not constitute a trade or
business for tax purposes. Investment advisory fees are subject to substantial restrictions on
deductibility for federal income tax purposes. Such treatment would likely create or increase the
tax liability of non-corporate limited partners.

Other Risks  

Fees and Commissions are Charged Regardless of Profitability and are Subject to Change 

The Fund is subject to substantial charges payable irrespective of profitability, in addition
to performance fees which are payable based on the Fund s profitability. Included in these charges
are brokerage fees and operating expenses. On the Fund s forward and option trading,  bid-ask 
spreads and prime brokerage fees are incorporated into the pricing of forward, option and swap
contracts by the counterparties in addition to the brokerage fees paid by the Fund. It is not
possible to quantify the  bid-ask  spreads paid by the Fund because the Fund cannot determine the
profit its counterparty is making on the forward and option transactions. Such spreads can at times
be significant.

The Futures Broker Could Fail and Has Been Subject to Disciplinary Action 

The Commodity Exchange Act generally requires a futures broker to segregate all funds received from
customers from such broker s proprietary assets. If the futures broker fails to do so, the assets
of the Fund might not be fully protected in the event of the bankruptcy of the futures broker.
Furthermore, in the event of the futures broker s bankruptcy, the Fund could lose the entire
amount, or be limited to recovering only a  pro rata  share, of all available funds segregated on
behalf of the futures broker s combined customer accounts, even though certain property
specifically traceable to the Fund (for example, Treasury bills deposited by the Fund with the
futures broker as margin) was held by the futures broker. Furthermore, dealers in forward, option
and swap contracts are not regulated by the Commodity Exchange Act and are not obligated to
segregate customer assets. As a result, you do not have such basic protection in forward, option
and swap contracts.

Investors Must Not Rely on the Past Performance of Either Campbell   Company or the Fund in
Deciding Whether to Buy Units 

The future performance of the Fund is not predictable, and no assurance can be given that the
Fund will perform successfully in the future. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of
future results.

Parties to the Fund Have Conflicts of Interest 

Campbell   Company has not established any formal procedures to resolve the following
conflicts of interest. Consequently, there is no independent control over how Campbell   Company
resolves these conflicts which can be relied upon by investors as ensuring that the Fund is treated
equitably with other Campbell   Company clients.

Campbell   Company has a conflict of interest because it acts as the general partner and sole
trading advisor for the Fund. Since Campbell   Company acts as both trading advisor and general
partner for the Fund, it is very unlikely that its advisory contract will be terminated by the
Fund. The fees payable to Campbell   Company were established by it and were not the subject of
arm s-length negotiation. These fees consist of up to a 8% brokerage fee (of which 3% is retained) and a
20% performance fee. Campbell   Company, as general partner, determines

6

whether or not
distributions are made and it receives increased fees to the extent distributions are not made.
Campbell   Company has the authority to make such distributions at any time in its sole discretion.

Selling agents will be entitled to ongoing compensation as a result of their clients remaining
in the Fund, so a conflict exists between the selling agent s interest in maximizing compensation
and in advising its clients to make investment decisions in the client s best interests.

Other conflicts are also present in the operation of the Fund. See  Conflicts of Interest. 

There are No Independent Experts Representing Investors 

Campbell   Company has consulted with counsel, accountants and other experts regarding the
formation and operation of the Fund. No counsel has been appointed to represent the limited
partners in connection with the offering of the units. Accordingly, each prospective investor
should consult his own legal, tax and financial advisers regarding the desirability of an
investment in the Fund.

The Fund Places Significant Reliance on Campbell   Company 

Limited partners are not entitled to participate in the management of the Fund or the conduct
of its business. Rather, the Fund is wholly dependent upon the services of the general partner.
There can be no assurance that such services will be available for any length of time following the
term of the Advisory Agreement. Furthermore, the incapacity of the general partner s principals
could have a material and adverse effect on the general partner s ability to discharge its
obligations under the Advisory Agreement. However, there is no individual principal at Campbell  
Company whose absence would result in a material adverse effect on Campbell   Company s ability to
adequately carry out its advisory responsibilities.

The Fund Could Terminate Before Expiration of its Stated Term 

The general partner may withdraw from the Fund upon 90 days  notice, which would cause the
Fund to terminate unless a substitute general partner were obtained. Other events, such as a
long-term substantial loss suffered by the Fund, could also cause the Fund to terminate before the
expiration of its stated term. This could cause you to liquidate your investments and upset the
overall maturity and timing of your investment portfolio. If the registrations with the CFTC or
memberships in the National Futures Association of Campbell   Company or the futures broker were
revoked or suspended, such entity would no longer be able to provide services to the Fund.

The Fund is Not a Regulated Investment Company 

Although the Fund and Campbell   Company are subject to regulation by the CFTC, the Fund is
not an investment company subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940 and Campbell   Company is
not registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Accordingly, you
do not have the protections afforded by those statutes which, for example, requires investment
companies to have a majority of disinterested directors and regulates the relationship between the
adviser and the investment company.

Proposed Regulatory Change is Impossible to Predict 

The futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and margin
requirements. In addition, the CFTC and futures exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary
actions in the event of a market emergency, including, for example, the retroactive implementation
of speculative position limits or higher margin requirements, the establishment of daily price
limits and the suspension of trading. The regulation of futures, forward, option and swap
transactions in the United States is a rapidly changing area of law and is subject to modification
by government and judicial action. In addition, various national governments have expressed concern
regarding the disruptive effects of speculative trading in the currency markets and the need to
regulate

7

the  derivatives  markets in general. The effect of any future regulatory change on the
Fund is impossible to predict, but could be substantial and adverse.

Forwards, Options, Swaps, Hybrids and Other Derivatives are Not Subject to CFTC Regulation 

The Fund trades foreign exchange contracts and options in the interbank market. In the future,
the Fund may also trade swap agreements, hybrid instruments and other off-exchange contracts. Swap
agreements involve trading income streams such as fixed rate for floating rate interest. Hybrids
are instruments which combine features of a security with those of a futures contract. The dealer
market for off-exchange instruments is becoming more liquid. There is no exchange or clearinghouse
for these contracts and they are not regulated by the CFTC. The Fund will not receive the
protections which are provided by the Commodity Exchange Act or CFTC regulations in respect of
these transactions.

The Fund is Subject to Foreign Market Credit and Regulatory Risk 

A substantial portion of Campbell   Company s trades takes place on markets or exchanges
outside the United States. From time to time, as much as 20% to 50% of the Fund s overall market
exposure could involve positions taken on foreign markets. The risk of loss in trading foreign
futures contracts and foreign options can be substantial. Participation in foreign futures
contracts and foreign options transactions involves the execution and clearing of trades on, or
subject to the rules of, a foreign board of trade. Non-U.S. markets may not be subject to the same
degree of regulation as their U.S. counterparts. None of the CFTC, NFA or any domestic exchange
regulates activities of any foreign boards of trade, including the execution, delivery and clearing
of transactions, nor do any have the power to compel enforcement of the rules of a foreign board of
trade or any applicable foreign laws. Trading on foreign exchanges also presents the risks of
exchange controls, expropriation, taxation and government disruptions.

The Fund is Subject to Foreign Exchange Risk 

The price of any foreign futures or foreign options contract and, therefore, the potential
profit and loss thereon, may be affected by any variance in the foreign exchange rate between the
time a position is established and the time it is liquidated, offset or exercised. Certain foreign
exchanges may also be in a more or less developmental stage so that prior price histories may not
be indicative of current price dynamics. In addition, the Fund may not have the same access to
certain positions on foreign exchanges as do local traders, and the historical market data on which
Campbell   Company bases its strategies may not be as reliable or accessible as it is in the United
States. The rights of clients (such as the Fund) in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a
non-U.S. market or broker are also likely to be more limited than in the case of U.S. markets or
brokers.

Transfers Could be Restricted 

Limited partners may transfer or assign units only upon 30 days  prior written notice to the
general partner and only if the general partner is satisfied that the transfer complies with
applicable laws and would not result in adverse legal or tax consequences for the Fund. A
transferee shall not become a substituted limited partners without the written consent of the
general partner.

A Single-Advisor Fund May be More Volatile Than a Multi-Advisor Fund 

The Fund is a single-advisor managed futures fund. Potential investors should understand that
many managed futures funds are structured as multi-advisor funds in order to attempt to control
risk and reduce volatility through combining advisors whose historical performance records have
exhibited a significant degree of non-correlation with each other. As a single-advisor managed
futures fund, the Fund may have increased performance volatility and a higher risk of loss than
investment vehicles employing multiple advisors.

8

The Performance Fee Could be an Incentive to Make Riskier Investments 

Campbell   Company employs a speculative strategy for the Fund, and receives performance fees
based on the trading profits earned by it for the Fund. Campbell   Company would not agree to
manage the Fund s account in the absence of such a performance fee arrangement. Accordingly,
Campbell   Company may make investments that are riskier than might be made if the Fund s assets
were managed by a trading advisor that did
not require performance-based compensation.

The Fund May Distribute Profits to Limited Partners at Inopportune Times 

Campbell   Company reserves the right to make distributions of profits of the Fund to the
limited partners at any time in its sole discretion in order to control the growth of the assets
under Campbell   Company s management. Limited partners will have no choice in receiving these
distributions as income, and may receive little notice that these distributions are being made.
Distributions may be made at an inopportune time for the limited partners.

Potential Inability to Trade or Report Due to Systems Failure 

Campbell   Company s strategies are dependent to a significant degree on the proper
functioning of its internal computer systems. Accordingly, systems failures, whether due to third
party failures upon which such systems are dependent or the failure of Campbell   Company s
hardware or software, could disrupt trading or make trading impossible until such failure is
remedied. Any such failure, and consequential inability to trade (even for a short time), could, in
certain market conditions, cause the Fund to experience significant trading losses or to miss
opportunities for profitable trading. Additionally, any such failures could cause a temporary delay
in reports to investors.

Potential Disruption or Inability to Trade Due to a Failure to Receive Timely and Accurate Market
Data from Third Party Vendors 

Campbell   Company s strategies are dependent to a significant degree on the receipt of timely
and accurate market data from third party vendors. Accordingly, the failure to receive such data in
a timely manner or the receipt of inaccurate data, whether due to the acts or omissions of such
third party vendors or otherwise, could disrupt trading to the detriment of the Fund or make
trading impossible until such failure or inaccuracy is remedied. Any such failure or inaccuracy
could, in certain market conditions, cause the Fund to experience significant trading losses,
effect trades in a manner which it otherwise would not have done, or miss opportunities for
profitable trading. For example, the receipt of inaccurate market data may cause Campbell   Company
to establish (or exit) a position which it otherwise would not have established (or exited), or
fail to establish (or exit) a position which it otherwise would have established (or exited), and
any subsequent correction of such inaccurate data may cause Campbell   Company to reverse such
action or inaction, all of which may ultimately be to the detriment of the Fund.

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.

Item 2.    Properties  

The Registrant does not use any physical properties in the conduct of its business. Its
assets currently consist of futures and other contracts, cash, short-term time deposits and U.S.
Treasury Bills.

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings  

Campbell   Company is not aware of any material legal proceedings to which the Registrant is a
party or to which any of their assets are subject.

9

Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

None.

PART II 

Item 5.    Market for Registrant s Common Equity , Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities  

Units of Limited Partnership Interest are not publicly traded. Units may be transferred or
redeemed subject to the conditions imposed by the Amended Agreement of Limited Partnership. As of
December 31, 2005, there were 55,817 Partners in the Registrant and 1,720,974.089 Units of General
and Limited Partnership Interest outstanding.

Campbell   Company has sole discretion in determining what distributions, if any, the
Registrant will make to its Unit holders. Campbell   Company has not made any distributions as of
the date hereof.

The Registrant has no securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data  

Dollars in thousands, except per Unit amounts 

The following summarized quarterly financial information presents the results of operations
for the three-month periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2005 and 2004.

* 
       
     - Based on weighted average number of units outstanding during the period. 

10

* 
       
     - Based on weighted average number of units outstanding during the period. 

Item 7.    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Introduction  

The offering of its Units of Limited Partnership Interest commenced on January 12, 1994. The
initial offering terminated on April 15, 1994 and the Fund commenced operations on April 18, 1994.
The continuing offering period commenced at the termination of the initial offering period and is
ongoing.

Critical Accounting Policies  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at
the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expense during the
reporting period. Management believes that the estimates utilized in preparing the financial
statements are reasonable and prudent; however, actual results could differ from those estimates.
The Fund s significant accounting policies are described in detail in Note 1 of the Financial
Statements.

The Fund records all investments at fair value in its financial statements, with changes in
fair value reported as a component of realized and change in unrealized trading gain (loss) in the
Statements of Operations. Generally, fair values are based on market prices; however, in certain
circumstances, estimates are involved in determining fair value in the absence of an active market
closing price (e.g. option, swap and forward contracts which are traded in the inter-bank market).

Capital Resources  

The Fund will raise additional capital only through the sale of Units offered pursuant to the
continuing offering, and does not intend to raise any capital through borrowing. Due to the nature
of the Fund s business, it will make no capital expenditures and will have no capital assets which
are not operating capital or assets.

Liquidity  

Most United States commodity exchanges limit fluctuations in commodity futures contracts
prices during a single day by regulations referred to as  daily price fluctuation limits  or  daily
limits . During a single trading day, no trades may be executed at prices beyond the daily limit.
Once the price of a futures contract has reached the daily limit for that day, positions in that
contract can neither be taken nor liquidated. Commodity futures prices

11

have occasionally moved to
the daily limit for several consecutive days with little or no trading. Similar occurrences could
prevent the Fund from promptly liquidating unfavorable positions and subject the Fund to
substantial losses which could exceed the margin initially committed to such trades. In addition,
even if commodity futures prices have not moved the daily limit, the Fund may not be able to
execute futures trades at favorable prices, if little trading in such contracts is taking place.
Other than these limitations on liquidity, which are inherent in the Fund s commodity futures
trading operations, the Fund s assets are expected to be highly liquid.

The entire offering proceeds, without deductions, will be credited to the Fund s bank and
brokerage accounts to engage in trading activities and as reserves for that trading. The Fund meets
its margin requirements by depositing U.S. government securities with the futures broker and the
over-the-counter counterparties. In this
way, substantially all ( i.e. , 95% or more) of the Fund s assets, whether used as margin for
trading purposes or as reserves for such trading, can be invested in U.S. government securities and
time deposits with U.S. banks. Investors should note that maintenance of the Fund s assets in U.S.
government securities and banks does not reduce the risk of loss from trading futures, forward and
swap contracts. The Fund receives all interest earned on its assets. No other person shall receive
any interest or other economic benefits from the deposit of Fund assets.

Approximately 10% to 30% of the Fund s assets normally are committed as required margin for
futures contracts and held by the futures broker, although the amount committed may vary
significantly. Such assets are maintained in the form of cash or U.S. Treasury bills in segregated
accounts with the futures broker pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act and regulations thereunder.
Approximately 10% to 30% of the Fund s assets are deposited with over-the-counter counterparties in
order to initiate and maintain forward and swap contracts. Such assets are not held in segregation
or otherwise regulated under the Commodity Exchange Act, unless such over-the-counter counterparty
is registered as a futures commission merchant. These assets are held either in U.S. government
securities or short-term time deposits with U.S.-regulated bank affiliates of the over-the-counter
counterparties. The remaining 40% to 80% of the Fund s assets will normally be invested in cash
equivalents, such as U.S. Treasury bills, and held by the futures broker or the over-the-counter
counterparties.

The Fund s assets are not and will not be, directly or indirectly, commingled with the
property of any other person in violation of law or invested with or loaned to Campbell   Company
or any affiliated entities.

Results of Operations  

The returns for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 were 9.53%, 4.35% and
17.68%, respectively.

2005 

For the 2005 increase of 9.53%, approximately 14.31% was due to trading gains (before
commissions) and approximately 2.92% was due to interest income, offset by approximately 7.70% due
to brokerage fees, performance fees, and operating and offering costs borne by the Fund. An
analysis of the 14.31% trading gain by sector is as follows:

The late December 2004 reversal of the major trends in currencies and equities persisted into
January 2005 leaving the Fund with negative performance for the month. The U.S. Dollar rallied
sharply in the first week of the month and held its new levels, which produced losses in the
currency sector. The post-election rally in equities gave

12

way to selling in January, which also
produced losses for the Fund. The energy sector was positive as crude oil approached $50 per
barrel. The interest rate sector was also positive.

The rally in the U.S. Dollar failed early in February and the Dollar ended the month lower.
However, the small gains on the Fund s U.S. Dollar short positions were offset by losses in its
non-Dollar currency pairs, resulting in losses in the currency sector overall. This was a
difficult interest rate environment with different pressures observable at different points along
the yield curve. Consequently, the Fund s short-term interest rate positions were positive, but
not profitable enough to offset the losses in long-term interest rates. The stock index sector was
the best performing sector for the month as the equity markets reversed again and traded higher
reclaiming a portion of the losses in January. Crude oil s continued rally also contributed
profits for the month.

The Fund had a small trading profit in the month of March. The gains for the month were in the
interest rate sector, as both short-term and long-term positions were profitable, and in the energy
sector where crude oil made a new high. The U.S. Dollar closed higher for the month, reversing a
long downtrend, which caused losses for the Fund. In addition, the Fund incurred losses in its
non-Dollar currency positions in March making the currency sector the worst performing sector for
the first quarter. The equity index markets also reversed and ended the month lower which caused
losses for the Fund.

Gains in the interest rate and currency sectors led to a positive return for April. Interest rate
instruments continued the rally which began in late March. The energy sector was the worst
performing sector for the month. Crude oil prices fell by almost $8 a barrel, which, combined with
the related sell-off in other energy products, resulted in losses for the month. Equity indices
were also negative with stock prices ending lower following sharp declines mid-month.

The Fund had a positive return in May which turned the Fund s year-to-date return positive. The
interest rate and currency sectors continued their profitability in April and May. The apparent
breakdown of the EU constitutional ratification process was a key development late in the month
causing investors to readjust their expectations for the Euro. The shift in favor of the U.S.
Dollar topped off a six week rally that led to its highest level since before the 2004 U.S.
elections which benefited the Fund s currency positions. The Fund s interest rate positions
benefited from the U.S. 10-year Treasury yield being pushed once again below 4%.

In June, global uncertainties continued to provide profitable trends for the Fund. The U.S. Dollar
was up sharply in June to new six month highs, as the Euro and Yen continued a steep six-week
slide. A further flattening of the yield curve provided a profitable opportunity for the Fund s
models and the fixed income sector. Several energy markets made new all-time highs in June
contributing to the Fund s profits for the month.

The Fund reported its fourth consecutive monthly gain in July. Markets were rattled following the
Chinese currency revaluation, but much of the initial decline in the U.S. Dollar was recovered the
following day. The equity markets ended the month broadly higher and were the Fund s most
profitable sector, while the interest rates sector traded lower and generated the Fund s largest
losses. Energy markets traded lower early in the month, but ended near all-time highs and at a
profit for the Fund s long positions.

August saw sharp trend reversals occur in each of the major financial sectors, resulting in losses
for the Fund. The currency sector was the Fund s worst performing sector. The U.S. Dollar peaked
at the end of July, then reversed sharply and traded close to its recent lows at the end of August.
A similar reversal occurred in the interest rates sector, resulting in losses at both ends of the
yield curve. Equities trended higher in July, but record energy prices caused a sharp sell-off in
August and resulted in a loss in this sector. The energy and metal sectors were the only
profitable sectors in the Fund this month, but the size of positions was not sufficient to offset
the losses incurred in the financial sectors.

13

In September, the Fund saw many of the trends in the major financial sectors resume their course.
The same sectors that reversed so sharply in August were the most profitable in September, while
the energy sector was the only sector that had losses. The U.S. Dollar rallied strongly from the
start of the month following the late-August sell-off, and again approached the highs for the year.
The Fund lost money on some non-U.S. Dollar trades, however the currency sector was profitable
overall. The equities sector also finished higher. Fixed income instruments ended lower after the
sharp reversals in August and provided solid gains for the Fund s short positions.

The Fund performance was positive for the month of October. The fixed income sector was profitable
as inflation fears fueled the sell-off in bonds and interest rates moved higher across the whole
yield curve. The currency sector also delivered gains as the U.S. Dollar continued to show
strength. The energy markets ended
the month lower which contributed negatively to the Fund s performance, but the biggest losses for
the month were in the equity indices sector as stock prices declined sharply.

Currencies were the most profitable sector contributing to the positive return for November as the
U.S. Dollar continued to strengthen against the Euro and the Yen. The major theme continued to be
the rising U.S. interest rate differentials and the persistent weakness of the Yen. The
fixed-income sector was profitable overall, but gains in short-term interest rate instruments were
partially offset by losses on the long end of the curve as mid-month economic data eased the
markets  fears of inflation. The same data pushed equity indices higher across the globe which was
a welcome result for many investors, but it went against our positions. Energy prices continued
their slide in November with warmer than normal weather in many regions of the country. This was
good news for energy consumers, but caused losses for our positions. Metals, although only a small
part of the Fund s portfolio, saw significant gains this month with copper rising to new all-time
highs and gold closing over $500 per ounce.

Sharp reversals in the currencies and interest rates sectors resulted in losses in December, but
the Fund had positive results for 2005. Currencies were one of the most profitable sectors for the
year, but was the major source of losses in December. The Japanese Yen was in decline against most
other currencies all year, but reversed sharply in December as new economic data finally turned
positive. The Euro also rallied and the US Dollar lost ground on a perception of change in relative
short-term interest rates policy, increasing the losses on our currency positions.

These same factors contributed to reversals in the fixed income markets in December which also
resulted in losses for the Fund, but this sector was also the most profitable for the Fund in 2005.
The worst performing sector in 2005 was the equities sector, but conversely it was profitable in
December as the rally in US stocks fizzled, while European and Asian stock indices continued to
trade higher, ending a year of strong gains for those markets. Energy prices also finished higher
in December as markets characterized by tight supply and increasing demand continued to be
sensitive to weather and geopolitical change. This resulted in good profits in the energy sector
for both the month and the year.

2004 

For the 2004 increase of 4.35%, approximately 13.99% was due to trading gains (before commissions)
and approximately 1.23% was due to interest income, offset by approximately 10.87% due to brokerage
fees, performance fees, and operating and offering costs borne by the Fund. An analysis of the
13.99% trading gain by sector is as follows:

14

The year began with the Fund posting a positive return in January despite significant volatility
throughout the month. The weak U.S. Dollar continued to drive most global markets,
including many that had no apparent or direct connection to the Dollar, and in circumstances such
as this, subtle shifts in perception can have a disproportionate impact on prices. The Dollar
traded lower throughout the month, which was profitable for the Fund s currency positions. Much of
the gain reversed late in the month when markets reacted violently when the Federal Open Market
Committee (FOMC) slightly restated its short-term interest rate bias. The interest rate sector was
slightly positive despite also having suffered a reversal of earlier gains following the FOMC
announcement. The stock index and metals sectors had small losses for the month.

The Fund had a strong positive return in February as the trends that were in place at the end of
January persisted. The continued concern over the record U.S. budget deficit and current account
imbalance kept downward pressure on the U.S. Dollar and resulted in strong gains in the currency
sector. The weak Dollar in return reinforced several related trends, including the continued rise
in energy prices, resulting in positive returns in the energy sector. The interest rates sector
was also profitable for the month as European interest rate instruments traded higher.

All of the gain for the month of March came from the interest rate sector as U.S. Treasuries
continued to trade higher, while a weakening U.S. Dollar also contributed solid returns. The
energy sector was moderately positive, while the equity index sector was moderately negative.

In April, interest rates reversed course and started to head higher in response to a perceived
change in stance by the U.S. Federal Reserve. In the days that followed, most major market trends
also reversed. Fixed income instruments sold off hard and the U.S. Dollar rallied, while precious
and base metals and many other physical commodities traded sharply lower. The equities markets
also fell. Only the continued rise in energy prices provided modest gains for the Fund in April.

May was a difficult month for systematic trend following strategies and the Fund finished the month
with slightly negative performance. Crude oil set record high prices during the month, which led
to gains for the Fund in the energy sector. Most fixed income and currency contracts experienced a
classic whipsaw. They began the month with the continuation of April s reversals, but ended the
month with a strong rally. Equity prices continued to weaken in the face of higher energy prices
and global political uncertainty, which led to losses in the stock indices sector.

June was another month of choppy, range-bound trading, which resulted in negative performance for
the Fund in all sectors. The market impact of unfolding events in Iraq had diminished greatly, and
many traders were reluctant to take positions ahead of the Federal Reserve Bank s June 30 interest
rate announcement. Absent any other significant news, the markets remained trendless and did not
provide the opportunities needed to produce positive returns.

July was a slightly negative month as most markets the Fund traded continued to oscillate in
relatively narrow ranges. Interest rate instruments traded lower and then rallied on weaker than
expected economic statistics, while equity indices rallied and then declined amid broad earnings
disappointments. The U.S. Dollar traded in a narrow

15

range. In the energy sector, a classic whipsaw
caused the Fund to exit most of its long positions just before crude oil prices rallied to all-time
highs.

August performance was negative as most financial markets continued to be bound by the ranges which
had been in place previously. Fixed income instruments rallied profitably during the month, but
these gains were quickly offset by losses in the currency sector as the U.S. Dollar strengthened.
Small losses resulted from stock index trading as a six-week downtrend reversed sharply, mirroring
the rise and fall of crude oil prices. The Fund s exposure to the highly volatile energy sector
was minor as a result of trading filters that kept the Fund out of that sector.

The losses for the Fund continued in September as listless market conditions persisted. While U.S.
Dollar and interest rate instruments traded in narrow ranges, the Fund managed small profits in
these sectors. These gains were largely offset by losses in the Fund s small positions in the
volatile energy sector. The largest losses for the month came from the equity index positions as
positive economic reports late in the month caused stocks to rally towards 90-day highs.

The Fund bounced back with a respectable gain in October. This was primarily as a result of
positive performance in the foreign exchange and interest rate sectors, as the long-awaited
downward movement in the U.S Dollar began to
unfold. Traders reacted to key economic data, including a report of the second highest trade-gap
in U.S. history. Following the report, the U.S. Dollar trended broadly lower against other leading
currencies. The Fund was on the sidelines in the energy sector during the month as crude oil hit
new highs and natural gas traded at the highest prices since the levels reached in February 2003.

The Fund had a strong profitable month in November as the growing momentum in the slide of the U.S.
Dollar resulted in a new low against the Euro and multi-year lows against other major currencies.
Structural problems of record budget deficits, trade deficits, and current account deficits, and
the prospect of four more years of unchanged fiscal and monetary policy had the attention of the
foreign exchange markets. Consequently, while the U.S. Dollar has been weak for several years, the
recent decline has been very sharp. The foreign exchange and interest rate sectors were profitable
in November and were the most profitable sectors for the year.

The Fund finished the year with a positive performance in December and for the year, closing out a
year that was confounding for many traders. The big stories for the year were the slide in the
U.S. Dollar and the rise and fall of crude oil prices, but high volatility made these markets
difficult to trade. Fixed income was the most profitable sector for the Fund in 2004. Long-term
interest rates were sharply higher in the first quarter, but reversed in the second quarter despite
a Federal Reserve Bank bias toward higher rates. The rally continued through the second half of
the year and produced strong returns for the year in the fixed income sector. Equity markets were
range-bound for most of the year awaiting the outcome of the election, which was followed by a
dramatic rally and delivered some useful gains from the otherwise worst performing sector in 2004.

2003 

For the 2003 increase of 17.68%, approximately 27.46% was due to trading gains (before commissions)
and approximately 0.98% was due to interest income, offset by approximately 10.76% due to brokerage
fees, performance fees, and operating and offering costs borne by the Fund. An analysis of the
27.46% trading gain by sector is as follows:

16

The long-term trends that created opportunity for the Fund in 2002 continued in January 2003, in
which profits were earned in every sector. However, the environment was one where a single event,
the prospect of war with Iraq, was driving the Fund s whole portfolio. While the Fund s systematic
and disciplined trading strategies continued to keep it engaged, leverage was subsequently
decreased to protect against significant losses which could result from potential sharp and
extended reversals in core positions.

The Fund was positive again in February with metals being the only negative sector. Strong
momentum in energy, fixed income, currencies and stock indices continued, largely as a result of
the troubled global geopolitical outlook. In order to mitigate the risk of potential sharp
reversals in trends, the Fund maintained a lower-than-normal level of leverage during the month.

The long awaited market reversal occurred in March. Initially, energy, precious metals and fixed
income markets all sold off sharply, while equities and the U.S. Dollar rallied. Several days into
this correction, these markets all sold off suddenly, as hopes of a quick victory in Iraq subsided.
With significantly reduced leverage, the losses the Fund sustained were relatively modest, giving
the Fund a positive first quarter.

In April, the Fund s leverage was returned to a more normal level, but the portfolio was not fully
engaged in many markets due to the lack of strong trends. Many markets had calmed significantly at
this time, but uncertainty was still
prevalent in global markets due to the many unresolved geopolitical issues. A strong performance in
the currencies sector was partially offset by negative performances in the metals and stock index
sectors.

In May, the uncertainty that remained in April dominated the markets the Fund trades and led to
another positive month. While corporate earnings looked stronger, unemployment, overcapacity and
the ongoing threat of terrorism still loomed large over the global financial markets. The US
dollar weakened further against the other major currencies despite the concern expressed by the
United States  trade partners over the impact this would have on global trade. Interest rates were
the best performing sector for the Fund particularly at the long end of the yield curve, where
higher prices reflected lower rates. Currency contracts were also strongly positive, while losses
in the energy and stock index sectors offset some of those gains.

Even with a negative result for June, the Fund finished the first half of 2003 with a double-digit
return. Long-term interest rates lost value as yield curves steepened, particularly the Japanese
government bond. Short-term interest rates and stock index sectors contributed very modest gains
for the month, while all other sectors contributed losses. While the global economy was looking
better than it had for several years, many substantive uncertainties remained.

The Fund s performance for July was negative due to significant price reversals in the Fund s
largest positions. The U.S. Dollar s strong rally caused losses in the Fund s currency and cross
rate sectors. In addition, the sudden sharp sell-off in long-term bonds resulted in losses in the
Fund s long positions. These losses were partially offset by gains in the Fund s long equity index
positions as investor confidence grew in the economic recovery and the potential for improved
growth.

The stock indices sector was the best performing sector for the month of August as the U.S. equity
markets posted their sixth straight month of gains. Much of this was attributed to improving
consumer confidence, federal tax cuts and increased defense spending. The energy sector
contributed positive returns as crude oil remained above the thirty-dollar level on continuing
supply concerns. Also, the Fund s short positions in the Japanese Government Bond provided a
significant portion of the month s gains.

In September, the currency sector was the only significantly positive sector as short U.S. Dollar
positions benefited from continued weakness in the U.S. Dollar. After showing positive returns for
most of the month, sudden reversals in the fixed income, equity and energy markets washed out the
gains in the currency sector and put the Fund s portfolio into negative territory late in the
month. The Fund finished the 3 rd  quarter with a negative return, but was positive
through September.

The Fund began the fourth quarter on a positive note with a majority of the gain coming from the
currencies and stock indices sectors. The continued but orderly decline of the U.S. Dollar against
the other major currencies

17

provided good trending opportunities during October, but an unexpectedly
sharp decline in the Yen at the end of the month took away some of the profits earned earlier. The
performance of the currency cross rates, interest rates and energy sectors all resulted in losses
for the month. The energy markets were particularly volatile, with natural gas prices whipsawing
on shifting weather predictions, while crude oil declined sharply from the high end of its recent
trading range.

November was a positive month for the Fund. The currencies and stock indices sectors provided good
profits, which were partially offset by losses in the cross currency, energy and interest rate
sectors. As global equity prices continued to strengthen, the U.S. dollar weakened, reaching 10
and 5 year lows against the Canadian dollar and Sterling, respectively, while the Euro made an all
time high late in the month. Paradoxically strong U.S. economic indicators encouraged a positive
outlook, with a strong retail sales and a 20-year high in manufacturing. Global economic data was
also encouraging, particularly that coming out of Asia.

The trends of the falling U.S. dollar and the rise in global equity indices prevalent in the second
half of 2003 continued in December and left the Fund with a gain for the month. These trends were
also responsible for most of the gains for the year.

Off-Balance Sheet Risk  

The term  off-balance sheet risk  refers to an unrecorded potential liability that, even
though it does not appear on the balance sheet, may result in future obligation or loss.
The Fund trades in futures, forward, option and swap contracts and is therefore a party to
financial instruments with elements of off-balance
sheet market and credit risk. In entering into these contracts there exists a risk to the
Fund, market risk, that such contracts may be significantly influenced by market conditions,
such as interest rate volatility, resulting in such contracts being less valuable. If the
markets should move against all of the futures interests positions of the Fund at the same
time, and if the Fund s trading advisor was unable to offset futures interests positions of
the Fund, the Fund could lose all of its assets and the Limited Partners would realize a 100%
loss. Campbell   Company, Inc., the General Partner (who also acts as trading advisor),
minimizes market risk through real-time monitoring of open positions, diversification of the
portfolio and maintenance of a margin-to-equity ratio that rarely exceeds 30%.

In addition to market risk, in entering into futures, forward, option and swap contracts
there is a credit risk that a counterparty will not be able to meet its obligations to the
Fund. The counterparty for futures contracts traded in the United States and on most foreign
exchanges is the clearinghouse associated with such exchange. In general, clearinghouses are
backed by the corporate members of the clearinghouse who are required to share any financial
burden resulting from the non-performance by one of their members and, as such, should
significantly reduce this credit risk. In cases where the clearinghouse is not backed by the
clearing members, like some foreign exchanges, it is normally backed by a consortium of banks
or other financial institutions.

In the case of forward, option and swap contracts, which are traded on the interbank
market rather than on exchanges, the counterparty is generally a single bank or other
financial institution, rather than a group of financial institutions; thus there may be a
greater counterparty credit risk. Campbell   Company trades for the Fund only with those
counterparties which it believes to be creditworthy. All positions of the Fund are valued
each day on a mark-to-market basis. There can be no assurance that any clearing member,
clearinghouse or other counterparty will be able to meet its obligations to the Fund.

Disclosures About Certain Trading Activities that Include Non-Exchange Traded Contracts
Accounted for at Fair Value  

The Fund invests in futures, option, swap and forward currency contracts. The market
value of futures (exchange-traded) contracts is determined by the various futures exchanges,
and reflects the settlement price for each contract as of the close of the last business day
of the reporting period. The market value of swap and forward (non-exchange traded)
contracts is extrapolated on a forward basis from the spot prices quoted as of 5:00 P.M.
(E.T.) of the last business day of the reporting period or based on the market value of its
exchange-traded equivalent.

18

Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Introduction  

Past Results Not Necessarily Indicative of Future Performance 

The Fund is a speculative commodity pool. The market sensitive instruments held by it
are acquired for speculative trading purposes, and all or a substantial amount of the Fund s
assets are subject to the risk of trading loss. Unlike an operating company, the risk of
market sensitive instruments is integral, not incidental, to the Fund s main line of business.

Market movements result in frequent changes in the fair market value of the Fund s open
positions and, consequently, in its earnings and cash flow. The Fund s market risk is
influenced by a wide variety of factors, including the level and volatility of exchange rates,
interest rates, equity price levels, the market value of financial instruments and contracts,
the diversification effects among the Fund s open positions and the liquidity of the markets
in which it trades.

The Fund rapidly acquires and liquidates both long and short positions in a wide range of
different markets. Consequently, it is not possible to predict how a particular future market
scenario will affect performance, and the Fund s past performance is not necessarily
indicative of its future results.

Standard of Materiality 

Materiality as used in this section,  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk,  is based on an assessment of reasonably possible market movements and the
potential losses caused by such movements, taking into account the leverage and multiplier
features of the Fund s market sensitive instruments.

Quantifying the Fund s Trading Value at Risk  

Quantitative Forward-Looking Statements  

The following quantitative disclosures regarding the Fund s market risk exposures contain
 forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the safe harbor from civil liability
provided for such statements by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (set
forth in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934). All quantitative disclosures in this section are deemed to be forward-looking
statements for purposes of the safe harbor, except for statements of historical fact (such as
the dollar amount of maintenance margin required for market risk sensitive instruments held at
the end of the reporting period). 

The Fund s risk exposure in the various market sectors traded is estimated in terms of
Value at Risk (VaR). The Fund estimates VaR using a model based upon historical simulation
(with a confidence level of 97.5%) which involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical
daily changes in the value of a trading portfolio. The VaR model takes into account linear
exposures to risks, including equity and commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange
rates, and correlation among these variables. The hypothetical changes in portfolio value are
based on daily percentage changes observed in key market indices or other market factors to
which the portfolio is sensitive. The one day 97.5% confidence level of the Fund s VaR
corresponds to the negative change in portfolio value that, based on observed market risk
factors, would have been exceeded once in 40 trading days or one day in 40. VaR typically
does not represent the worst case outcome.

The Fund uses approximately one year of daily market data and revalues its portfolio for
each of the historical market moves that occurred over this time period. This generates a
probability distribution of daily  simulated profit and loss  outcomes. The VaR is the 2.5
percentile of this distribution.

19

The VaR for a sector represents the one day downside risk for the aggregate exposures
associated with this sector. The aggregate VaR represents the VaR of the Fund s open
positions across all market sectors, and is less than the sum of the VaRs for all such market
sectors due to the diversification benefit across asset classes.

The Fund s VaR computations are based on the risk representation of the underlying
benchmark for each instrument or contract and does not distinguish between exchange and
non-exchange dealer-based instruments. It is also not based on exchange and/or dealer-based
maintenance margin requirements.

VaR models, including the Fund s, are continually evolving as trading portfolios become
more diverse and modeling techniques and systems capabilities improve. Please note that the
VaR model is used to numerically quantify market risk for historic reporting purposes only and
is not utilized by the Fund in its daily risk management activities. Please further note that
VaR as described above may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other
entities.

Because the business of the Fund is the speculative trading of futures, forwards and
options, the composition of the Fund s trading portfolio can change significantly over any
given time period, or even within a single trading day, which could positively or negatively
materially impact market risk as measured by VaR.

The Fund s Trading Value at Risk in Different Market Sectors  

The following tables indicate the trading Value at Risk associated with the Fund s open
positions by market category as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and the trading
gains/losses by market category for the years then ended.

*  
       
      -  The VaR for a sector represents the one day downside risk for the aggregate exposures
associated with this sector. The aggregate VaR represents the VaR of the Fund s open
positions across all market sectors, and is less than the sum of the VaRs for all such market
sectors due to the diversification benefit across asset classes. 

**  
       
      -  Of the return for the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 14.31% was due to
trading gains (before commissions) and approximately 2.92% due to interest income, offset by
approximately 7.70% due to brokerage fees, performance fees and operating and offering costs
borne by the Fund giving a net return of 9.53%. 

20

*  
       
      -  The VaR for a sector represents the one day downside risk for the aggregate exposures
associated with this sector. The aggregate VaR represents the VaR of the Fund s open
positions across all market sectors, and is less than the sum of the VaRs for all such market
sectors due to the diversification benefit across asset classes. 

**  
       
      -  Of the return for the year ended December 31, 2004, approximately 13.99% was due to
trading gains (before commissions) and approximately 1.23% was due to interest income, offset
by approximately 10.87% due to brokerage fees, performance fees and operating and offering
costs borne by the Fund giving a net return of 4.35%. 

*  
       
      -  The VaR for a sector represents the one day downside risk for the aggregate exposures
associated with this sector. The aggregate VaR represents the VaR of the Fund s open
positions across all market sectors, and is less than the sum of the VaRs for all such market
sectors due to the diversification benefit across asset classes. 

**  
       
      -  Of the return for the year ended December 31, 2003, approximately 27.46% was due to
trading gains (before commissions) and approximately 0.98% was due to interest income, offset
by approximately 10.76% due to brokerage fees, performance fees and operating and offering
costs borne by the Fund giving a net return of 17.68%. 

Material Limitations of Value at Risk as an Assessment of Market Risk  

The following limitations of VaR as an assessment of market risk should be noted:

1) 
       
     Past changes in market risk factors will not always result in accurate predictions of
the distributions and correlations of future market movements; 

2) 
       
     Changes in portfolio value caused by market movements may differ from those of the VaR
model; 

3) 
       
     VaR results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future
positions; 

21

4) 
       
     VaR using a one day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions
that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; and 

5) 
       
     The historical market risk factor data for VaR estimation may provide only limited
insight into losses that could be incurred under certain unusual market movements. 

VaR is not necessarily representative of historic risk nor should it be used to predict
the Fund s future financial performance or its ability to manage and monitor risk. There can
be no assurance that the Fund s actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the VaR
amounts indicated or that such losses will not occur more than once in 40 trading days.

Non-Trading Risk  

The Fund has non-trading market risk on its foreign cash balances not needed for margin.
However, these balances (as well as the market risk they represent) are immaterial. The Fund
also has non-trading market risk as a result of investing a substantial portion of its
available assets in U.S. Treasury Bills. The market risk represented by these investments is
immaterial.

Qualitative Disclosures Regarding Primary Trading Risk Exposures  

The following qualitative disclosures regarding the Fund s market risk exposures   except
for (i) those disclosures that are statements of historical fact and (ii) the descriptions of
how the Fund manages its primary market risk exposures   constitute forward-looking statements
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act. The Fund s primary market risk exposures as well as the strategies used and to
be used by Campbell   Company for managing such exposures are subject to numerous
uncertainties,
contingencies and risks, any one of which could cause the actual results of the Fund s risk
controls to differ materially from the objectives of such strategies. Government
interventions, defaults and expropriations, illiquid markets, the emergence of dominant
fundamental factors, political upheavals, changes in historical price relationships, an influx
of new market participants, increased regulation and many other factors could result in
material losses as well as in material changes to the risk exposures and the risk management
strategies of the Fund. There can be no assurance that the Fund s current market exposure
and/or risk management strategies will not change materially or that any such strategies will
be effective in either the short- or long-term. Investors must be prepared to lose all or
substantially all of their investment in the Fund. 

The following were the primary trading risk exposures of the Fund as of December 31,
2005, by market sector.

Currencies 

Exchange rate risk is the principal market exposure of the Fund. The Fund s currency
exposure is to exchange rate fluctuations, primarily fluctuations which disrupt the historical
pricing relationships between different currencies and currency pairs. These fluctuations are
influenced by interest rate changes as well as political and general economic conditions. The
Fund trades in a large number of currencies, including cross-rates    i.e.,  positions between
two currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Campbell   Company does not anticipate that the
risk profile of the Fund s currency sector will change significantly in the future.

Interest Rates 

Interest rate risk is a significant market exposure of the Fund. Interest rate movements
directly affect the price of the sovereign bond positions held by the Fund and indirectly the
value of its stock index and currency positions. Interest rate movements in one country as
well as relative interest rate movements between countries materially impact the Fund s
profitability. The Fund s primary interest rate exposure is to interest rate fluctuations in
the United States and the other G-7 countries. However, the Fund also takes positions in the
government debt of Switzerland. Campbell   Company anticipates that G-7 interest rates will
remain the primary market exposure of the Fund for the foreseeable future. The changes in
interest rates which have the most effect on the Fund are changes in long-term, as opposed to
short-term rates. Most of the speculative positions held by the Fund are in medium- to
long-term instruments.

22

Stock Indices 

The Fund s primary equity exposure is to equity price risk in the G-7 countries and
several other countries (Hong Kong, Spain and Taiwan). The stock index futures traded by the
Fund are limited to futures on broadly based indices. The Fund is primarily exposed to the
risk of adverse price trends or static markets in the major U.S., European and Japanese
indices. (Static markets would not cause major market changes but would make it difficult for
the Fund to avoid being  whipsawed  into numerous small losses.)

Energy 

The Fund s primary energy market exposure is to gas and oil price movements, often
resulting from political developments and ongoing conflicts in the Middle East. Oil and gas
prices can be volatile and substantial profits and losses have been and are expected to
continue to be experienced in this market.

Metals 

The Fund s metals market exposure is to fluctuations in the price of gold, copper, nickel
and zinc.

Qualitative Disclosures Regarding Non-Trading Risk Exposure 

The following were the only non-trading risk exposures of the Fund as of December 31,
2005.

Foreign Currency Balances 

The Fund s primary foreign currency balances are in Japanese Yen, British Pounds and
Euros. The Fund controls the non-trading risk of these balances by regularly converting these
balances back into dollars (no less frequently than twice a month, and more frequently if a
particular foreign currency balance becomes unusually large).

Treasury Bill Positions 

The Fund s only market exposure in instruments held other than for trading is in its
Treasury Bill portfolio. The Fund holds Treasury Bills (interest bearing and credit
risk-free) with durations no longer than six months. Violent fluctuations in prevailing
interest rates could cause immaterial mark-to-market losses on the Fund s Treasury Bills,
although substantially all of these short-term investments are held to maturity.

Qualitative Disclosures Regarding Means of Managing Risk Exposure  

The means by which the Fund and Campbell   Company, severally, attempt to manage the risk
of the Fund s open positions is essentially the same in all market categories traded.
Campbell   Company applies risk management policies to its trading which generally limit the
total exposure that may be taken per  risk unit  of assets under management. In addition,
Campbell   Company follows diversification guidelines (often formulated in terms of the
balanced volatility between markets and correlated groups), as well as imposing  stop-loss 
points at which open positions must be closed out.

Campbell   Company controls the risk of the Fund s non-trading instruments (Treasury
Bills held for cash management purposes) by limiting the duration of such instruments to no
more than six months.

23

General  

The Fund is unaware of any (i) anticipated known demands, commitments or capital
expenditures; (ii) material trends, favorable or unfavorable, in its capital resources; or
(iii) trends or uncertainties that will have a material effect on operations. From time to
time, certain regulatory agencies have proposed increased margin requirements on futures
contracts. Because the Fund generally will use a small percentage of assets as margin, the
Fund does not believe that any increase in margin requirements, as proposed, will have a
material effect on the Fund s operations.

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

Financial statements meeting the requirements of Regulation S-X appear beginning on Page 30 of
this report. The supplementary financial information specified by Item 302 of Regulation S-K is
included in Item 6. Selected Financial Data.

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

None.

Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures  

Campbell   Company, Inc., the general partner of the Fund, with the participation of the
general partner s chief executive officer and chief financial officer, has evaluated the
effectiveness of the design and
operation of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e)) with respect to the Fund as of the end of the period covered
by this annual report. Based on their evaluation, the chief executive officer and chief financial
officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There were no
changes in the general partner s internal control over financial reporting applicable to the Fund
identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph (d) of Exchange Act Rules 13a-15
or 15d-15 that occurred during the last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting applicable to the
Fund.

Item 9B.    Other Information  

There was no information required to be disclosed in a report on form 8-K during the fourth
quarter of 2005.

PART III 

Item 10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The Registrant has no directors or executive officers. The Registrant has no employees. It
is managed by Campbell   Company in its capacity as general partner. Campbell   Company has been
registered as a commodity pool operator (CPO) since September 1982. Its main business address is
210 West Pennsylvania Avenue, Towson, Maryland 21204, (410) 296-3301. Campbell   Company s
directors and executive officers are as follows:

Theresa D. Becks , born in 1963, joined Campbell   Company in June 1991 and has served as the
 Chief Financial Officer  and  Treasurer  since 1992, and  Secretary  and a  Director  since 1994. In
addition to her role as CFO, Ms. Becks also oversees administration, compliance and trade
operations. Ms. Becks is also the Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary of
both Campbell   Company Investment Adviser LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Campbell   Company,
and The Campbell Multi-Strategy Trust, a registered investment company. Ms. Becks is currently a
member of the Board of Directors of the Managed Funds Association. From 1987 to 1991, she was
employed by Bank Maryland Corp, a publicly held company, as a Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer. Prior to that time, she worked with Ernst   Young. Ms. Becks is a C.P.A.

24

and has a B.S. in
Accounting from the University of Delaware. Ms. Becks is an Associated Person of Campbell  
Company.

D. Keith Campbell , born in 1942, has served as the  Chairman of the Board of Directors  of
Campbell   Company since it began operations, was President until 1994, and was Chief Executive
Officer until 1997. Mr. Campbell is the majority voting stockholder of Campbell   Company. From
1971 to 1978, he was a registered representative of a futures commission merchant. Mr. Campbell has
acted as a commodity trading advisor since 1972 when, as general partner of the Campbell Fund, a
limited partnership engaged in commodity futures trading, he assumed sole responsibility for
trading decisions made on behalf of the Fund. Since then, he has applied various technical trading
models to numerous discretionary futures trading accounts. Mr. Campbell is registered with the CFTC
and NFA as a commodity pool operator. Mr. Campbell is an Associated Person of Campbell   Company.

William C. Clarke, III , born in 1951, joined Campbell   Company in June 1977 and has served as
an  Executive Vice President  since 1991 and a  Director  since 1984. Mr. Clarke holds a B.S. in
Finance from Lehigh University where he graduated in 1973. Mr. Clarke currently oversees all
aspects of research, which involves the development of proprietary trading models and portfolio
management methods. Mr. Clarke is an Associated Person of Campbell   Company.

Bruce L. Cleland , born in 1947, joined Campbell   Company in January 1993 and has served as
 President  and a  Director  since 1994, and  Chief Executive Officer  since 1997. Mr. Cleland is also
the President and Chief Executive Officer of Campbell   Company Investment Adviser LLC, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Campbell   Company, and Trustee, Chief Executive Officer and President
of The Campbell Multi-Strategy Trust, a registered investment company. Mr. Cleland has worked in
the international derivatives industry since 1973, and has owned and managed firms engaged in
global clearing, floor brokerage, trading and portfolio management. Mr. Cleland is currently a
member of the Board of Directors of the National Futures Association,
and previously served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Managed Funds Association
and as a member of the Board of Governors of the COMEX, in New York. Mr. Cleland is a graduate of
Victoria University in Wellington, New Zealand where he earned a Bachelor of Commerce and
Administration degree. Mr. Cleland is an Associated Person of Campbell   Company.

Kevin M. Heerdt , born in 1958, joined Campbell   Company in March 2003 and has served as  Chief
Operating Officer  since June 2005. Prior to June 2005, Mr. Heerdt served as an Executive Vice
President-Research. His duties also include risk management, research, and the development of
quantitatively based hedge fund and options strategies. Mr. Heerdt is also the Vice President and
Chief Operating Officer of both Campbell   Company Investment Adviser LLC, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Campbell   Company, and The Campbell Multi-Strategy Trust, a registered investment
company. The Campbell Multi-Strategy Trust, a registered investment company. From February 2002 to
March 2003, he was self-employed through Integrity Consulting. Previously, Mr. Heerdt worked for
twelve years at Moore Capital Management, Inc., where he was a Director until 1999, and a Managing
Director from 2000 to 2002. Mr. Heerdt holds a B.A. in Economics and in International Relations
from the University of Southern California. Mr. Heerdt is an Associated Person of Campbell  
Company.

James M. Little , born in 1946, joined Campbell   Company in April 1990 and has served as
 Executive Vice President-Business Development  and a  Director  since 1992. Mr. Little is also the
Vice President of both Campbell   Company Investment Adviser LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Campbell   Company, and The Campbell Multi-Strategy Trust, a registered investment company. Mr.
Little holds a B.S. in Economics and Psychology from Purdue University. From 1989 to 1990, Mr.
Little was a registered representative of A.G. Edwards   Sons, Inc. From 1984 to 1989, he was the
Chief Executive Officer of James Little   Associates, Inc., a commodity pool operator and
broker-dealer. Mr. Little is the co-author of  The Handbook of Financial Futures , and is a frequent
contributor to investment industry publications. Mr. Little is an Associated Person of Campbell  
Company.

Thomas P. Lloyd , born in 1959, joined Campbell   Company in September 2005 as  General Counsel
and Executive Vice President-Legal and Compliance . In this capacity, he is involved in all aspects
of legal affairs,

25

compliance and regulatory oversight. Mr. Lloyd is also the Secretary, Chief
Compliance Officer and Assistant Treasurer of both Campbell   Company Investment Adviser LLC, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Campbell   Company, and The Campbell Multi-Strategy Trust, a registered
investment company. From 1999 to 2005, Mr. Lloyd was employed by Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
( DBSI ) in several positions, including Managing Director and head of the legal group for Deutsche
Bank Alex. Brown, the Private Client Division of DBSI. From 1997 to 1999, Mr. Lloyd was an attorney
in the Enforcement Department of NASD Regulation, Inc., and, from 1995 to 1997, he served as a
senior counsel in the Division of Enforcement of the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission. From 1989 to 1995, he was engaged in the private practice of law. Mr. Lloyd holds a
B.A. in Economics from the University of Maryland, and a J.D. from the University of Baltimore
School of Law. Mr. Lloyd is a member of the Bars of the State of Maryland and the United States
Supreme Court.

There has never been a material administrative, civil or criminal action brought against Campbell  
Company or any of its directors, executive officers, promoters or control persons.

No Forms 3, 4, or 5 have been furnished to the Registrant since inception. To the best of the
Registrant s knowledge, no such forms have been or are required to be filed.

Audit Committee Financial Expert  

The Board of Directors of Campbell   Company, in its capacity as the audit committee for the Fund,
has determined that Theresa D. Becks qualifies as an  audit committee financial expert  in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
She is not independent of management.

Code of Ethics  

Campbell   Company has adopted a code of ethics for its chief executive officer, chief financial
officer, controller, accounting managers and persons performing similar functions. A copy of the
code of ethics may be obtained at no charge by written request to Campbell   Company s corporate
secretary, Court Towers Building, 210 West Pennsylvania Ave., Suite 770, Towson, Maryland 21204 or
by calling 1-800-698-7235.

Item 11.    Executive Compensation  

The Registrant is managed by its general partner, Campbell   Company. Campbell   Company
receives from the Registrant a Brokerage Fee equal to up to 8% of the Registrant s month-end Net
Assets per year. From such 8% Brokerage Fee, Campbell   Company remits up to 1% to the Commodity
Broker for execution and clearing costs, and 4% to the broker-dealers which engaged in the
distribution of the Units in return for ongoing services to the Limited Partners. Campbell  
Company retains the remaining 3% as management fees (2% for providing advisory fees and 1% for
acting as general partner). Campbell   Company also receives a performance fee of 20% of the
aggregate cumulative appreciation (if any) in Net Asset Value per unit at the end of each calendar
quarter, exclusive of the appreciation attributable to interest income.

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Shareholder Matters  

(a) 
       
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners. As of December 31, 2005, no Units of
Limited Partnership are owned or held by an officer of Campbell   Company. 

(b) 
       
     Security Ownership of Management. As of December 31, 2005, Campbell   Company
owned 17,240.171 Units of General Partnership Interest having a value of $51,848,435.
Units of General Partnership will always be owned by Campbell   Company in its capacity
as general partner. 

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  

See Item 11, Executive Compensation and Item 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management.

26

Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

The principal accountant for the year ended December 31, 2005 was Deloitte   Touche LLP. The
principal accountant for the year ended December 31, 2004 was Arthur F. Bell, Jr.   Associates,
L.L.C. Accordingly, 2005 fees disclosed below relate to Deloitte   Touche LLP and 2004 fees
disclosed relate to Arthur F. Bell, Jr.   Associates, L.L.C., respectively.

(a) 
       
     Audit Fees 

The aggregate fees billed for professional services rendered by the principal accountant
for the audit of the Fund s annual financial statements, for review of financial
statements included in the Fund s Forms 10-Q and other services normally provided in
connection with regulatory filing or engagements for the years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004 were $88,110 and $46,750, respectively. 

(b) 
       
     Audit Related Fees 

The aggregate fees billed by the principal accountant for the monthly recalculation of
the Fund s net asset value for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were $0 and
$14,000, respectively. 

(c) 
       
     Tax Fees 

The aggregate fees billed by the principal accountant for professional services rendered
for the preparation and filing of the Fund s Schedule K-1 s and all necessary federal and
state tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were $0 and $570,920,
respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2004, a total of 60,072 individual
investor K-1s were distributed to the Partners. 

(d) 
       
     All Other Fees 

The aggregate fees and expenses billed by the principal accountant for professional
services, and related cost reimbursement for postage, supplies and fulfillment house
expenses, rendered for the assistance in the preparation and mailing of the Fund s
monthly account statements to Partners, utilizing data, narrative and other items
provided by Campbell   Company for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were $0 and
$1,017,229, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2004, a total of 674,196
monthly account statements were distributed to Partners. 

(e) 
       
     The Board of Directors of Campbell   Company approved all of the services
described above. The Board of Directors has determined that the payments made to its
independent accountants for these services are compatible with maintaining such
auditors  independence. The Board of Directors explicitly pre-approves all audit and
non-audit services and all engagement fees and terms. 

PART IV 

Item 15.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K  

(a) 
       
     The Following documents are filed as part of this report: 

(1) 
       
     See Financial Statements beginning on page 30 hereof. 

(2) 
       
     Schedules: 

Financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are not included
in the financial statements or notes hereto applicable or because equivalent
information has been included in the financial statements or notes thereto. 

(3) 
       
     Exhibits 

27

(b) 
       
     Reports on Form 8-K 

None. 

28

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized on March 31, 2006.

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P.  

By: CAMPBELL   COMPANY, INC. 

General Partner 

By:

/s/ Theresa D. Becks

Theresa D. Becks 

Chief Financial Officer, Secretary, Treasurer and Director 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant in the capacities indicated on
March 31, 2006.

Signature 
       
     Capacity 

/s/ D. Keith Campbell

D. Keith Campbell

Chairman
of the Board 

/s/ William C. Clarke, III

William C. Clarke, III

Executive
Vice President and Director 

/s/ Bruce L. Cleland

Bruce L. Cleland

President,
Chief Executive Officer and Director 

/s/ Theresa D. Becks

Theresa D. Becks

Chief
Financial Officer, Secretary, Treasurer and Director 

/s/ James M. Little

James M. Little

Executive
Vice President and Director 

29

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION 
FUND, L.P. 

ANNUAL REPORT 

December 31, 2005

30

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P 

INDEX 

31

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Partners of 
Campbell Strategic Allocation Fund, L.P.

We have audited the accompanying statement of financial condition of Campbell Strategic Allocation
Fund, L.P. (the  Partnership ), including the condensed schedule of investments, as of December 31,
2005, and the related statements of operations, cash flows, and changes in partners  capital (net
asset value) for the year then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Partnership s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audit. The financial statements of Campbell Strategic Allocation Fund,
L.P. for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were audited by other auditors whose report,
dated March 22, 2005, expressed an unqualified opinion on those statements.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
Partnership is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal
control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over
financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Partnership s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Campbell Strategic Allocation Fund, L.P. as of December 31,
2005, the results of its operations and changes in its cash flows and partners  capital (net asset
value) for the year then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP

Princeton, New Jersey 
March 15, 2006

32

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Partners 
Campbell Strategic Allocation Fund, L.P.

We have audited the accompanying statement of financial condition of Campbell Strategic Allocation
Fund, L.P., including the condensed schedule of investments, as of December 31, 2004, and the
statements of operations, cash flows and changes in partners  capital (net asset value) for the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Fund s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The
Fund is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over
financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting
as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances but not for the
purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Fund s internal control over financial
reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also
includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Campbell Strategic Allocation Fund, L.P. as of December 31,
2004, and the results of its operations, cash flows and the changes in its net asset values for the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.

/s/ Arthur F. Bell, Jr.   Associates, L.L.C.

Hunt Valley, Maryland 
March 22, 2005

33

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION  
December 31, 2005 and 2004

See accompanying notes.

34

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 
CONDENSED SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS  
December 31, 2005

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT SECURITIES* 

LONG FUTURES CONTRACTS 

SHORT FUTURES CONTRACTS 

FORWARD CURRENCY CONTRACTS 

* 
       
        pledged as collateral for the trading of futures and forward positions.  

See accompanying notes.

35

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 
CONDENSED SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS  
December 31, 2004

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT SECURITIES* 

LONG FUTURES CONTRACTS 

SHORT FUTURES CONTRACTS 

FORWARD CURRENCY CONTRACTS 

* 
       
        pledged as collateral for the trading of futures and forward positions.  

See accompanying notes.

36

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

See accompanying notes.

37

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

See accompanying notes.

38

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN PARTNERS  CAPITAL (NET ASSET VALUE)  
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

Net Asset Value Per General and Limited Partner Unit 

See accompanying notes.

39

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Note 1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

A. 
       
     General Description of the Fund 

Campbell Strategic Allocation Fund, L.P. (the Fund) is a Delaware limited partnership
which operates as a commodity investment pool. The Fund engages in the speculative
trading of futures contracts, forward currency contracts and swap contracts. 

B. 
       
     Regulation 

As a registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Fund is subject to
the regulatory requirements under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. As a commodity investment pool, the Fund is subject to the
regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, an agency of the United
States (U.S.) government which regulates most aspects of the commodity futures
industry; rules of the National Futures Association, an industry self-regulatory
organization; and the requirements of the various commodity exchanges where the Fund
executes transactions. Additionally, the Fund is subject to the requirements of
futures commission merchants (brokers) and interbank and other market makers through
which the Fund trades. 

C. 
       
     Method of Reporting 

The Fund s financial statements are presented in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles, which may require the use of certain estimates made
by the Fund s management. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Investment
transactions are accounted for on the trade date. Gains or losses are realized when
contracts are liquidated. Unrealized gains and losses on open contracts (the
difference between contract trade price and market price) are reported in the
statement of financial condition as a net gain or loss, as there exists a right of
offset of unrealized gains or losses in accordance with Financial Accounting
Standards Board Interpretation No. 39    Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain
Contracts.  The market value of futures (exchange-traded) contracts is determined by
the various futures exchanges, and reflects the settlement price for each contract as
of the close of the last business day of the reporting period. The market value of
swap and forward currency (non-exchange traded) contracts is extrapolated on a
forward basis from the spot prices quoted as of 5:00 P.M. (E.T.) of the last business
day of the reporting period or based on the market value of its exchange-traded
equivalent. Any change in net unrealized gain or loss from the preceding period is
reported in the statement of operations. Brokerage commissions include other trading
fees and are charged to expense when contracts are opened. United States government
securities are stated at cost plus accrued interest, which approximates market value. 

For purposes of both financial reporting and calculation of redemption value, Net
Asset Value per unit is calculated by dividing Net Asset Value by the number of
outstanding units. 

40

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 

Note 1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 

D. 
       
     Cash and Cash Equivalents 

Cash and cash equivalents includes cash and short-term time deposits held at
financial institutions. 

E. 
       
     Income Taxes 

The Fund prepares calendar year U.S. and applicable state information tax returns and
reports to the partners their allocable shares of the Fund s income, expenses and
trading gains or losses. No provision for income taxes has been made in the
accompanying financial statements as each partner is individually responsible for
reporting income or loss based on such partner s respective share of the Fund s
income and expenses as reported for income tax purposes. 

F. 
       
     Offering Costs 

Campbell   Company, Inc. (Campbell   Company) has incurred all costs in connection
with the initial and continuous offering of units of the Fund (offering costs). The
Fund s liability for offering costs is limited to the maximum of total offering costs
incurred by Campbell   Company or 2.5% of the aggregate subscriptions accepted during
the initial and continuous offerings; this maximum is further limited by 30 month
pay-out schedules. The Fund is only liable for payment of offering costs on a
monthly basis as calculated based on the limitations stated above. At December 31,
2005 and 2004, the Fund reflects a liability in the statement of financial condition
for offering costs payable to Campbell   Company of $1,464,278 and $2,230,619,
repectively. The amount of monthly reimbursement due to Campbell   Company is
charged directly to partners  capital. 

If the Fund terminates prior to completion of payment of the calculated amounts to
Campbell   Company, Campbell   Company will not be entitled to any additional
payments, and the Fund will have no further obligation to Campbell   Company. At
December 31, 2005 and 2004, the amount of unreimbursed offering costs incurred by
Campbell   Company was $3,561,403 and $2,654,427, respectively. 

G. 
       
     Foreign Currency Transactions 

The Fund s functional currency is the U.S. dollar; however, it transacts business in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Assets and liabilities denominated in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at the rates
in effect at the date of the statement of financial condition. Income and expense
items denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S.
dollars at the rates in effect during the period. Gains and losses resulting from
the translation to U.S. dollars are reported in income. 

41

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 

Note 1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 

H. 
       
     Reclassification 

Certain amounts in the 2004 financial statements were reclassified to conform with
the 2005 presentation. 

Note 2.  GENERAL PARTNER AND COMMODITY TRADING ADVISOR 

The general partner of the Fund is Campbell   Company, which conducts and manages the
business of the Fund. Campbell   Company is also the commodity trading advisor of the
Fund. The Amended Agreement of Limited Partnership provides that Campbell   Company may
make withdrawals of its units, provided that such withdrawals do not reduce Campbell  
Company s aggregate percentage interest in the Fund to less than 1% of the net aggregate
contributions. Campbell   Company is required by the Amended Agreement of Limited
Partnership to maintain a net worth equal to at least 5% of the capital contributed by all
the limited partnerships for which it acts as general partner, including the Fund. The
minimum net worth shall in no case be less than $50,000 nor shall net worth in excess of
$1,000,000 be required.

The Fund pays a monthly brokerage fee equal to 1/12 of 7% (7% annualized) of month-end net
assets to Campbell   Company and approximately $6 per round turn to the broker for
execution and clearing costs. From the 7% fee, a portion (4%) is used to compensate
selling agents for ongoing services rendered and a portion (3%) is retained by Campbell  
Company for trading and management services rendered. The amount paid to the broker and
interbank market makers for execution and clearing costs is limited to 1/12 of 1% (1%
annualized) of month-end net assets.

Campbell   Company is also paid a quarterly performance fee of 20% of the Fund s aggregate
cumulative appreciation in the Net Asset Value per unit, exclusive of appreciation
attributable to interest income.

Note 3.  DEPOSITS WITH BROKER 

The Fund deposits assets with a broker subject to Commodity
Futures Trading Commission regulations and various exchange and
broker requirements. Margin requirements are satisfied by the
deposit of U.S. Treasury bills and cash with such broker. The
Fund earns interest income on its assets deposited with the
broker.

Note 4.  OPERATING EXPENSES 

Operating expenses of the Fund are limited by the Amended
Agreement of Limited Partnership to 0.5% per year of the average
month-end Net Asset Value of the Fund. Actual operating expenses
were less than 0.5% of average month-end Net Asset Value for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.

42

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 

Note 5.  SUBSCRIPTIONS, DISTRIBUTIONS AND REDEMPTIONS 

Investments in the Fund are made by subscription agreement,
subject to acceptance by Campbell   Company.

The Fund is not required to make distributions, but may do so at
the sole discretion of Campbell   Company. A limited partner may
request and receive redemption of units owned, subject to
restrictions in the Amended Agreement of Limited Partnership.
Redemption fees , which are paid to Campbell   Company, apply
through the first twelve month-ends following purchase as follows:
4% of Net Asset Value per unit redeemed through the third
month-end, 3% of Net Asset Value per unit redeemed through the
sixth month-end, 2% of Net Asset Value per unit redeemed through
the ninth month-end and 1% of Net Asset Value per unit redeemed
through the twelfth month-end. After the twelfth month-end
following purchase of a unit, no redemption fees apply.

Note 6.  TRADING ACTIVITIES AND RELATED RISKS 

The Fund engages in the speculative trading of U.S. and foreign
futures contracts, forward currency contracts and swap contracts
(collectively,  derivatives ). The Fund is exposed to both market
risk, the risk arising from changes in the market value of the
contracts, and credit risk, the risk of failure by another party
to perform according to the terms of a contract.

Purchase and sale of futures contracts requires margin deposits
with the broker. Additional deposits may be necessary for any
loss on contract value. The Commodity Exchange Act requires a
broker to segregate all customer transactions and assets from such
broker s proprietary activities. A customer s cash and other
property (for example, U.S. Treasury bills) deposited with a
broker are considered commingled with all other customer funds
subject to the broker s segregation requirements. In the event of
a broker s insolvency, recovery may be limited to a pro rata share
of segregated funds available. It is possible that the recovered
amount could be less than total cash and other property deposited.

The amount of required margin and good faith deposits with the
broker and interbank and other market makers usually range from
10% to 30% of Net Asset Value. The market value of securities
held to satisfy such requirements at December 31, 2005 and 2004
was $3,991,667,806 and $3,170,737,778, respectively, which equals
77% and 78% of Net Asset Value, respectively. The cash deposited
with interbank and other market makers at December 31, 2005 and
2004 was $842,829,676 and $656,506,665, respectively, which equals
16% and 16% of Net Asset Value, respectively. These amounts are
included in cash and cash equivalents.

The Fund trades forward currency and swap contracts in unregulated
markets between principals and assumes the risk of loss from
counterparty nonperformance. Accordingly, the risks associated
with forward currency and swap contracts are generally greater
than those associated with exchange traded contracts because of
the greater risk of counterparty default. Additionally, the
trading of forward currency and swap contracts typically involves
delayed cash settlement.

43

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 

Note 6.  TRADING ACTIVITIES AND RELATED RISKS (CONTINUED) 

The Fund has a substantial portion of its assets on deposit with
financial institutions. In the event of a financial institution s
insolvency, recovery of Fund assets on deposit may be limited to
account insurance or other protection afforded such deposits.

For derivatives, risks arise from changes in the market value of
the contracts. Theoretically, the Fund is exposed to a market
risk equal to the notional contract value of futures, forward
currency and swap contracts purchased and unlimited liability on
such contracts sold short.

The unrealized gain (loss) on open futures, forward currency and swap contracts is
comprised of the following:

Open contracts generally mature within three months; as of December 31, 2005, the latest
maturity date for open futures contracts is September 2006, and the latest maturity date
for open forward currency contracts is March 2006. However, the Fund intends to close all
contracts prior to maturity.

Campbell   Company has established procedures to actively monitor market risk and minimize
credit risk, although there can be no assurance that it will, in fact, succeed in doing
so. Campbell   Company s basic market risk control procedures consist of continuously
monitoring open positions, diversification of the portfolio and maintenance of a
margin-to-equity ratio that rarely exceeds 30%. Campbell   Company seeks to minimize
credit risk primarily by depositing and maintaining the Fund s assets at financial
institutions and brokers which Campbell   Company believes to be creditworthy. The
limited partners bear the risk of loss only to the extent of the market value of their
respective investments and, in certain specific circumstances, distributions and
redemptions received.

Note 7.  INDEMNIFICATIONS 

In the normal course of business, the Fund enters into contracts
and agreements that contain a variety of representations and
warranties and which provide general indemnifications. The Fund s
maximum exposure under these arrangements is unknown, as this
would involve future claims that may be made against the Fund that
have not yet occurred. The Fund expects the risk of any future
obligation under these indemnifications to be remote.

44

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 

Note 8.  FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 

The following information presents per unit operating performance data and other
supplemental financial data for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. This
information has been derived from information presented in the financial statements.

Total returns are calculated based on the change in value of a unit during the year. An
individual partner s total returns and ratios may vary from the above total returns and
ratios based on the timing of additions and redemptions. 

(1)  
       
     Expenses net of interest income per unit and offering costs per unit
are calculated by dividing the expenses net of interest income and offering costs by
the average number of units outstanding during the year. Total trading gains is a
balancing amount necessary to reconcile the change in net asset value per unit with
the other per unit information. 

(2)  
       
     Excludes performance fee. 

45

EXHIBIT INDEX 

Exhibit Number 
       
     Description of Document 
       
     Page Number 

31.01

Certification by Chief Executive Officer

E 2 

31.02

Certification by Chief Financial Officer

E 3 

32.01

Certification by Chief Executive Officer

E 4 

32.02

Certification by Chief Financial Officer

E 5 

E 1

<EX-31.01>
 2
 w19255exv31w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w01 

Exhibit 31.01

CERTIFICATION 

I, Bruce L. Cleland, Chief Executive Officer of Campbell   Company, Inc., the general partner of
Campbell Strategic Allocation Fund, L.P. (the  Fund ), do hereby certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of the Fund; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect
to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(c) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonable likely to materially
affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

By: /s/ Bruce L. Cleland 

Bruce L. Cleland

Chief Executive Officer 

March 31, 2006 

E 2

</EX-31.01>

<EX-31.02>
 3
 w19255exv31w02.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w02 

EXHIBIT 31.02

CERTIFICATION 

I, Theresa D. Becks, Chief Financial Officer of Campbell   Company, Inc., the general partner of
Campbell Strategic Allocation Fund, L.P. (the  Fund ), do hereby certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of the Fund; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect
to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(c) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonable likely to materially
affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

By: /s/ Theresa D. Becks 

Theresa D. Becks

Chief Financial Officer 

March 31, 2006 

E 3

</EX-31.02>

<EX-32.01>
 4
 w19255exv32w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w01 

EXHIBIT 32.01

CERTIFICATION BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

I, Bruce Cleland, the Chief Executive Officer of Campbell   Company, Inc. as general
partner of Campbell Strategic Allocation Fund, L.P., certify that (i) the Form 10K for the year
ended December 31, 2005 of Campbell Strategic Allocation Fund, L.P. fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the
information contained in the Form 10K for the year ended December 31, 2005 fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Campbell Strategic
Allocation Fund, L.P.

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 

By: Campbell   Company, Inc., general partner 

By:

/s/ Bruce L. Cleland

Bruce L. Cleland

Chief Executive Officer 

March 31, 2006 

E 4

</EX-32.01>

<EX-32.02>
 5
 w19255exv32w02.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

exv32w02 

EXHIBIT 32.02

CERTIFICATION BY CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER  

I, Theresa D. Becks, the Chief Financial Officer of Campbell   Company, Inc. as general
partner, of Campbell Strategic Allocation Fund, L.P., certify that (i) the Form 10K for the year
ended December 31, 2005 of Campbell Strategic Allocation Fund, L.P. fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the
information contained in the Form 10K for the year ended December 31, 2005 fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Campbell Strategic
Allocation Fund, L.P.

CAMPBELL STRATEGIC ALLOCATION FUND, L.P. 

By: Campbell   Company, Inc., general partner 

By:

/s/ Theresa D. Becks

Theresa D. Becks

Chief Financial Officer 

March 31, 2006 

E 5

</EX-32.02>

