<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_1325460_0001104659-06-021076_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1474453</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>430849</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>866589</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>19</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>24</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021076.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331122427
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021076
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		25
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051230
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Federal Services Acquisition CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001325460
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BLANK CHECKS [6770]
		IRS NUMBER:				113747950
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-51552
		FILM NUMBER:		06726686

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		900 THIRD AVENUE, 33RD FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10022-4775
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-909-8457

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		900 THIRD AVENUE, 33RD FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10022-4775

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 B/qOIJ9ha8b+GG7wXWb3vADO0byTACVgTfSRl/Yj2fFTqBrsxJ5+5Fq0CzBov+ka
 a+uRw2g+mDzZdGFxau+YFA==

 0001104659-06-021076.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-7939_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington,
D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

Commission
file number: 000-51047   

FEDERAL SERVICES ACQUISITION 
CORPORATION   

  (Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

Delaware   

11-3747850   

(State
  or other jurisdiction of 
  incorporation or organization)  

(IRS
  Employer 
  Identification Number)  

900 Third
Avenue, 33 rd  Floor 
New York, New York, 10022-4775   

  (Address
of principal executive office)  

(646) 403-9765   

  (Registrant s
telephone number, including area code)  

Securities
registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act:  

   NONE   

Securities
registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act:  

   Units, each
consisting of one share of Common Stock, $0.0001 par value, and two Warrants   

   Common
Stock, $0.0001 par value   

   Warrants to
purchase shares of Common Stock   

  (Title
Of Class)  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes    o     No      

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes    o     No      

Indicate by checkmark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes          No   o  

Indicate by checkmark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not
contained herein, and will not be contained to the best of registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.      

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non-accelerated filer. See
definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act.     Large Accelerated Filer    o      Accelerated Filer   o     Non-accelerated Filer

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes          No  o  

The aggregate market value of the voting and
non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the Registrant computed by
reference to the closing sales price for the Registrant s Common Stock on
December 30, 2005, as reported on the OTC Bulletin Board, was approximately $112,140,000.  

The number of shares outstanding of the Registrant s
Common Stock as of February 23, 2006: 26,250,000 shares.  

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT    

This Annual Report on Form 10-K
and the documents incorporated by reference into the Annual Report on Form 10-K
include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These
forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking
terminology, including the words  believes,   estimates,   anticipates,   expects, 
 intends,   may,   will  or  should,  or, in each case, their negative or other
variations or comparable terminology. Such statements include, but are not limited
to, any statements relating to our ability to consummate any acquisition or
other business combination and any other statements that are not historical
facts. These statements are based on management s current expectations, but
actual results may differ materially due to various factors, including, but not
limited to:   

our being a development
stage company with no operating history;   

              our dependence on key
personnel, some of whom may or may not join us following a business combination;   

              our personnel allocating
their time to other businesses and potentially having conflicts of interest
with our business;   

              our potentially being
unable to obtain additional financing to complete a business combination;   

              the ownership of our
securities being concentrated;   

              risks associated with the federal
services industry;   

              risks associated with the
defense industry; and   

              those other risks and
uncertainties detailed in the Company s filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.   

By their nature, forward-looking
statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and
depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. We caution you
that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and
that our actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and
developments in the industry in which we operate, may differ materially from
those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, even if our results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity, and developments in the industry in which we
operate, are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, those results or developments may not be indicative
of results or developments in subsequent periods.   

These forward-looking statements
are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us. The
forward-looking events we discuss in this Annual Report on Form 10-K speak only
as of the date of such statement and might not occur in light of these risks,
uncertainties and assumptions. We undertake no obligation and disclaim any
obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.   

Unless otherwise provided in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, references to  the Company,   the Registrant,   we, 
 us  and  our  refer to Federal Services Acquisition Corporation.   

PART I   

Item 1. Business.   

General   

We are a  blank check  company organized under the
laws of the State of Delaware on April 12, 2005 and were formed for the
purpose of acquiring, through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset
acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business combination, an operating
business in the federal services and defense industries. We intend to use cash
derived from the net proceeds of our initial public offering, together with any
additional financing arrangements that we undertake, to effect a business combination
with a target whose fair market value is at least equal to 80% of our net
assets at the time of such acquisition.  

A registration statement for our initial public
offering was declared effective on October 19, 2005. On October 25, 2005, we
sold 21,000,000 units and consummated our initial public offering. Each of our
units consists of one share of our common stock, $0.0001 par value per share,
and two redeemable common stock purchase warrants. Each warrant entitles the
holder to purchase from us one share of common stock at an exercise price of
$5.00. The net proceeds from our initial public offering were approximately $119,169,000,
after deducting offering expenses of approximately $531,000 and underwriting
discounts of $6,300,000. Of this amount, $117,180,000 (referred to in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K as the  trust account funds ) was deposited into a
trust account and the remaining proceeds (approximately $1,989,000 (referred to
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as the  available funds )) were made available
to be used to provide for business, legal and accounting due diligence on
prospective business combinations and continuing general and administrative
expenses. Through December 31, 2005, we have used $133,161 of the available
funds for start up costs representing general and administrative expenses,
travel expenses, professional services, insurance and taxes based on capital. The
trust account funds remain on deposit in the trust account earning interest. As
of December 31, 2005, there was $117,990,384, including interest receivable of
$39,444, held in the trust account.  

Federal services and defense industries   

Companies operating in the federal services and
defense industries contract to provide the federal government with outsourced services,
including information technology and other technical services, and products and
technologies. Joel R. Jacks, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and
Peter M. Schulte, our President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary,
are both co-founders and co-managers of CM Equity Management, L.P. and
CMLS Management, L.P., which manage various private equity funds under the
brand CM Equity Partners. Dr. Edward H. Bersoff, our Vice-Chairman,
was the founder and chairman, president and chief executive officer of BTG,
Inc., a federal services contractor. Messrs. Jacks and Schulte and
Dr. Bersoff have collectively been involved in six platform companies and
15 acquisitions by such companies in the federal services industry. A platform
company is one of sufficient magnitude that can serve as a basis for growth and
additional acquisitions.  

We will likely acquire a business that operates in one
or more of the following sectors of the federal services and defense industries.
In selecting a target, we have no preference among these various sectors:   

Human Resources -
  government workforce management  

Financial Management -
  program review, efficiency and cost-benefit analyses and accounting functions  

Environmental - analysis;
  policy development; management  

Information Technology -
  management of government information  

Site Management - real
  estate services  

Engineering - civil and
  military  

Logistics - goods and
  services supply chain management  

Data Analysis -
  collection, review and organization of information  

1  

Program Management -
  outsourced management of government programs  

Policy Consulting - study
  and development of policies  

Communications - intra-,
  inter- and extra-government communications management  

Systems Engineering and
  Technical Analysis - technical support for government programs  

Network Management and
  Administration - helping insure the continued operation of government
  networks  

Information Security -
  helping protect government information  

Outsourcing - augmenting
  government staff  

Defense - procurement and
  resale of products related to defense programs  

Aerospace - procurement
  and resale of products related to aerospace programs  

Intelligence - procurement
  and resale of products related to intelligence programs  

Homeland Security -
  procurement and resale of products related to homeland security  

There has been a high level of acquisition activity
among companies operating in the federal services and defense industries in
recent years. We believe that these transactions occurred for a variety of
reasons, including competitive pressure to improve economies of scale,
operating complexity and the desire of companies  founders to gain liquidity. We
believe that these trends will continue and, based upon management s years of
experience in the federal services and defense industries, are likely to create
attractive acquisition opportunities for us.  

Many federal service providers provide similar
services to state and local governments and commercial entities. Accordingly,
our target company may, to a lesser extent, provide services to state and local
governments and to commercial entities.  

Effecting a Business Combination   

General   

We are not presently engaged in, and we will not
engage in, any substantive commercial business until we consummate a business
combination. Upon approval of a business combination by our stockholders, we
intend to use our cash, including the trust account funds, capital stock, debt
or a combination of these to effect a business combination involving an
operating business in the federal services and defense industries. A business
combination may involve the acquisition of, or merger with, an operating
business which does not need substantial additional capital but which desires
to establish a public trading market for its shares, while avoiding what it may
deem to be adverse consequences of undertaking a public offering itself. We
believe these include certain time delays, significant expense, loss of voting
control and compliance with various federal and state securities laws.  

Search for a target businesses   

We are currently in the process of identifying and
evaluating target businesses for a business combination. Although we are
participating in acquisition processes, we have not entered into any binding acquisition
agreements. Subject to the requirement that our initial business combination
must be with an operating business with a fair market value of at least 80% of
our net assets at the time of the acquisition, we have virtually unrestricted
flexibility in identifying and selecting prospective acquisition candidates in
the federal services and defense industries.  

2  

Target business candidates have been and will
continue to be brought to our attention from various unaffiliated sources that
have included or may include investment bankers, venture capital funds, private
equity funds, leveraged buyout funds, management buyout funds and other members
of the financial community. To date, we have received both solicited and
unsolicited proposals. Our stockholders, officers and directors as well as
their affiliates have brought and may continue to bring to our attention target
business candidates. While we do not presently anticipate engaging the services
of professional firms that specialize in business acquisitions on any formal
basis, we may engage these firms in the future, in which event we may pay a
finder s fee or other compensation from the available funds. In no event,
however, will we pay any stockholders that owned shares of our common stock
prior to our initial public offering, officers or directors (referred to in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K as our  founders ), or any entity with which
they are affiliated, any finder s fee or other compensation for services
rendered to us prior to or in connection with the consummation of a business
combination. In addition, none of our founders will receive any finder s fee,
consulting fees or any similar fees or other compensation from any other person
or entity in connection with any business combination other than any
compensation or fees to be received for any services provided following such
business combination.  

Selection of a target business and structuring of a
business combination   

In evaluating prospective acquisition candidates,
our management will likely consider, among other factors, the following:   

financial condition and
  results of operation;  

historical revenue growth;  

growth potential;  

earnings before interest,
  taxes, depreciation and amortization charges;  

consistent operating
  margins:  

experience and skill of
  management and availability of additional personnel;  

nature of the customers
  and contracts;  

stability and continuity
  in customer relationships;  

backlog of orders for
  services;  

capital requirements;  

competitive position;  

barriers to entry into
  other industries;  

stage of development of
  the services, processes or products;  

degree of current or potential
  market acceptance of the services, processes or products;  

proprietary features and
  degree of intellectual property or other protection of the services,
  processes or products;  

regulatory environment of
  the industry;  

potential growth in government
  spending in the segment in which the target company operates; and  

costs associated with
  effecting the business combination.  

These criteria are not intended to be exhaustive. Any
evaluation relating to the merits of a particular business combination with an
operating business will be based, to the extent relevant, on the above factors
as well as other considerations deemed relevant by our management in effecting
a business combination consistent with our business objective. In evaluating
prospective target businesses, we intend to conduct an extensive due diligence
review which will encompass, among other things, meetings with incumbent   

3  

management
and inspection of facilities, as well as review of financial and other
information which will be made available to us.  

The time and costs required to select and evaluate
target businesses and to structure and complete the business combination cannot
presently be ascertained with any degree of certainty. Any costs incurred with
respect to the identification and evaluation of prospective target businesses
with which a business combination is not ultimately completed will result in a
loss to us and reduce the amount of capital available to otherwise complete a
business combination. Additionally, our founders, directors, officers, and any
entity with which they are affiliated, will receive reimbursement for any
out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our
behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due
diligence on suitable business combinations.  

In addition, the terms of sales of target businesses
may require a prospective bidder to provide earnest money or a deposit at the
time of signing a definitive acquisition agreement or to expend funds prior to
closing in excess of those amounts allocated for such purposes. As a result of
the terms of the trust arrangements for the trust account funds, the trust
account funds are not available for any such earnest money or deposit. Accordingly,
unless we could obtain such funds from another source, we would not be able to
select any target business that would require earnest money or a deposit, or
the expenditure of transaction expenses prior to closing in excess of amounts
allocated for such purposes.  

Fair market value of target business   

The initial target business that we acquire must
have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of
such acquisition. The fair market value of such business will be determined by
our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial
community, such as actual and potential sales, earnings and cash flow and book
value. If our board is not able to independently determine that the target
business has a sufficient fair market value or if a conflict of interest exists
with respect to such determination, we will obtain an opinion from an
unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is a member of the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. with respect to the
satisfaction of such criteria. However, we are not required to obtain an
opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value if our
board of directors independently determines that the target business has
sufficient fair market value.  

Opportunity for stockholder approval of business
combination   

Prior to the completion of our initial business
combination, we will submit the transaction to our stockholders for approval,
even if the nature of the acquisition is such as would not ordinarily require
stockholder approval under applicable state law. In connection with seeking
stockholder approval of a business combination, we will furnish our
stockholders with proxy solicitation materials prepared in accordance with the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which, among other matters, will include a
description of the operations of the target business and certain required
financial information regarding the business.  

In connection with the vote required for our initial
business combination, all of our founders, including all of our officers and
directors, have agreed to vote all of their shares of common stock (whenever
acquired) in accordance with the majority of the shares of common stock voted
by stockholders that purchased their shares in our initial public offering or
subsequently in the open market (referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
as  public stockholders ). We will proceed with the business combination only
if a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders
are voted in favor of the business combination and public stockholders owning
less than 20% of the shares sold in this offering exercise their conversion
rights.  

4  

Conversion rights   

At the time we seek stockholder approval of any
business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to have
such stockholder s shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder
votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved
and completed. Our founders will not have this right because they have agreed
to vote their stock (whenever acquired) in accordance with the majority of the
shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders. The actual per-share
conversion price will be equal to the amount in the trust account, inclusive of
any interest (calculated as of two business days prior to the consummation of
the proposed business combination, and net of taxes payable), divided by the
number of shares sold in our initial public offering. As of December 31,
2005, the per-share conversion price was approximately $5.60 ($5.62 less $0.02
per share which is accrued for taxes), or $0.40 less than the price ($6.00 per
unit) that we sold each unit for in our initial public offering. An eligible
stockholder may request conversion at any time after the mailing to our
stockholders of the proxy statement and prior to the vote taken with respect to
a proposed business combination at a meeting held for that purpose, but the
request will not be granted unless the stockholder votes against the business
combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Any request
for conversion, once made, may be withdrawn at any time up to the date of the
meeting. It is anticipated that the funds to be distributed to stockholders who
are entitled to convert their shares and who elect conversion will be
distributed promptly after completion of a business combination. Public
stockholders who convert their stock into their share of the trust account will
retain the right to exercise the warrants they received as part of the units. We
will not complete any business combination if public stockholders owning 20% or
more of the shares sold in our initial public offering both vote against a
business combination and exercise their conversion rights.  

Liquidation if no business combination   

If we do not complete a business combination by
April 25, 2007, or October 25, 2007 if we enter into a letter of intent, an
agreement in principle or a definitive agreement to complete a business
combination prior to April 25, 2007, but are unable to complete such business
combination by such date, we will be dissolved and will distribute to all of
our public stockholders, and to any of our founders with respect to any shares
of common stock which they purchased in or following our initial public
offering, in proportion to their respective equity interests, an aggregate sum
equal to the amount in the trust account, inclusive of any interest (net of
taxes payable), plus any remaining net assets. Our founders have agreed to
waive their respective rights to participate in any liquidation distribution
occurring upon our failure to consummate a business combination solely with
respect to the shares of common stock owned by them immediately prior to our
initial public offering. There will be no distribution from the trust account
with respect to our warrants.  

As of December 31, 2005, and assuming we had
expended all of the available funds, the per share liquidation price was
approximately $5.60 ($5.62 less $0.02 per share which is accrued for taxes), or
$0.40 less than the price ($6.00 per unit) that we sold each unit for in our
initial public offering. The proceeds deposited in the trust account could,
however, become subject to the claims of our creditors which could be prior to
the claims of our public stockholders. We cannot assure you that the actual
per-share liquidation price will not be less than $5.60, plus interest (net of
taxes payable), due to claims of creditors. Joel R. Jacks and Peter M. Schulte
have agreed pursuant to an agreement with us and CRT Capital Group LLC that, if
we liquidate prior to the consummation of a business combination, they may be
personally liable to ensure that the proceeds of the trust account are not
reduced by the claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us
for services rendered or products sold to us or the claims of prospective
target businesses. We cannot assure you, however, that they will be able to
satisfy those obligations.  

If we enter into a letter of intent, an agreement in
principle or a definitive agreement to complete a business combination prior to
April 25, 2007, but are unable to complete the business combination by such
date, then we will have until October 25, 2007 in which to complete the
business combination contemplated by the letter of intent, agreement in
principle or definitive agreement. If we are unable to do so by October 25,
2007, we will then liquidate. Upon notice from us, the trustee of the trust
account will   

5  

commence
liquidating the investments constituting the trust account and will turn over
the proceeds to our transfer agent for distribution to our public stockholders
and to our founders with respect to any shares of our common stock which they
purchased in or following our initial public offering. We anticipate that our
instruction to the trustee would be given promptly after the expiration of the
applicable deadline.  

Our public stockholders will be entitled to receive
funds from the trust account only in the event of our liquidation or if a
public stockholder seeks to convert his respective shares into cash upon a
business combination which the public stockholder voted against and which is
actually completed by us. In no other circumstances will a public stockholder
have any right or interest of any kind to or in the trust account.  

Competition   

In identifying, evaluating and selecting target
businesses, we may encounter intense competition from other entities having a
business objective similar to ours. Many of these entities are well established
and have extensive experience identifying and effecting business combinations
directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater
technical, human and other resources than us and our financial resources will
be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While
we believe there are numerous potential target businesses that we could
acquire, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses
will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive
limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of target
businesses. Further:  

our obligation to seek stockholder approval
of a business combination may delay the completion of a transaction; 

            our obligation to convert into cash shares of
common stock held by our public stockholders in certain instances may reduce
the resources available to us for a business combination; and 

            our outstanding warrants, and the future
dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain
target businesses. 

Any of these factors may place us at a competitive
disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Our management
believes, however, that our status as a public entity and potential access to
the United States public equity markets may give us a competitive advantage over
privately-held entities having a similar business objective as ours in
acquiring a target business on favorable terms.  

If we succeed in effecting a business combination,
there will be, in all likelihood, intense competition from competitors of the
target businesses. The degree of competition characterizing the industry of any
prospective target business cannot presently be ascertained. We cannot assure
you that, subsequent to a business combination, we will have the resources to
compete effectively, especially to the extent that the target business is in a
high-growth industry.  

Employees   

We currently have three officers, each of whom is
also a member of our board of directors. We have no other employees. These
individuals are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our
matters and intend to devote only as much time as they deem necessary to our
affairs. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the
consummation of a business combination.  

6  

Item 1.A. Risk Factors.   

In addition to other information
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following factors should be
considered in evaluating our business and future prospects.   

We are a development stage company
with no operating history and, accordingly, you will have no basis upon which
to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective.    

We are a recently incorporated development stage
company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating
history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our
business objective, which is to acquire an operating business in the federal
services and defense industries. We will not generate any revenues (other than
interest income on the trust account funds) until, at the earliest, after the
consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a
business combination will occur.  

We may not be able to consummate a
business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we would be
forced to liquidate.    

We must complete a business combination with a fair
market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of acquisition by
April 25, 2007 (or by October 25, 2007 if a letter of intent, agreement in principle
or a definitive agreement has been executed by April 25, 2007 and the business
combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated by such date). If we
fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we
will be forced to liquidate our assets. We may not be able to find a suitable
target business within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating
position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential
target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation for a
business combination.  

Because there are numerous companies
with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business
combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so.    

Between August 1, 2003 and March 13, 2006, based
upon publicly available information, approximately 48 similarly structured  blank
check  companies completed initial public offerings. Of these companies, six
companies have consummated a business combination, while ten other companies have
announced they have entered into a letter of intent or a definitive agreement
for a business combination, but have not consummated such business combination.
Accordingly, as of March 13, 2006, there are approximately 32  blank check 
companies with approximately $2.1 billion in trust that are seeking to
carry out a business plan similar to our business plan. Furthermore, as of
March 13, 2006, there were approximately 36 additional offerings for  blank
check  companies that were still in the registration process but had not
completed initial public offerings and there are likely to be more  blank check 
companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings after March
13, 2006 and prior to our completion of a business combination. While some of
those companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a
number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they
choose or have a very broad definition of the industry they will target. Therefore,
we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to
consummate a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we
cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination
within the required time period. Further, because only 16 of such companies
have either consummated a business combination or entered into a letter of
intent or a definitive agreement for a business combination, it may indicate
that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities or
that many privately held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these
types of transactions with publicly held  blank check  companies like ours. If
we are unable to consummate a business combination with a target business
within the prescribed time period, we will be forced to liquidate.  

7  

If we are forced to liquidate before
a business combination, our public stockholders will receive less than $6.00
per share upon distribution of the trust account, and our warrants will expire
worthless.    

If we are unable to complete a business combination
and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation value will be
less than $6.00 (the price per unit that we sold each unit for in our initial
public offering) because of the expenses related to our public offering, our
general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a
business combination. Furthermore, the warrants will expire worthless if we
liquidate before the completion of a business combination.  

You will not be entitled to
protections normally afforded to investors of  blank check  companies under
federal securities laws.    

Since the net proceeds of our public offering are
intended to be used to complete a business combination with an operating
business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a  blank check 
company under the federal securities laws. However, since we have net tangible
assets in excess of $5,000,000 and have filed a Current Report on
Form 8-K with the SEC, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating
this fact, we believe that we are exempt from rules, such as rule 419 under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, promulgated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, to protect investors of  blank check  companies. Accordingly,
investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because
we do not believe we are subject to Rule 419, our units were immediately
tradeable, and we have a longer period of time within which to complete a
business combination in certain circumstances.  

If third parties bring claims
against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share
liquidation price received by stockholders will be reduced.    

Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those
funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all
vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute
agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in
or to any monies held in the trust account, there is no guarantee that they
will execute such agreements. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities
will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or
arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not
seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the
proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to claims which could take
priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share
liquidation price could be reduced due to claims of such creditors. If we are
unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, Joel R.
Jacks, our chairman and chief executive officer, and Peter M. Schulte, our
president, chief financial officer and secretary, may be personally liable
under certain circumstances to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account
are not reduced by the claims of various vendors or other entities that are
owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us or claims of
prospective target businesses. However, we cannot assure you that they will be
able to satisfy those obligations.  

Since we have not entered into a
binding agreement with any prospective target businesses with which to complete
a business combination, public shareholders are unable to currently ascertain
the merits or risks of any particular target business  operations.    

Since we have not entered into a binding agreement
with any prospective target businesses, public shareholders have no current
basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any particular target
business  operations. To the extent we complete a business combination with a
financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be
affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of such entity. Although
our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular
target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess
all of the significant risk factors, or that we will have adequate time to
complete due diligence.  

8  

We may issue shares of our capital
stock, including convertible debt securities, to complete a business
combination, which could reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and
possibly cause a change in control of our ownership.    

Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the
issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share,
and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. We have
31,750,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for
issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full
exercise of our outstanding warrants) and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock
available for issuance. Although we currently have no commitments to issue any
securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our
common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of both, including
convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination. The issuance
of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of preferred
stock, including upon conversion of any debt securities:  

may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in our
securities; 

            may cause a change in control if a
substantial number of our shares of common stock or voting preferred stock are
issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net
operating loss carry forwards, if any, and may also result in the resignation
or removal of our present officers and directors; and 

             may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 

We may issue notes or other debt
securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business
combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition.    

Although we currently have no commitments to issue
any notes or other debt securities, or to otherwise incur outstanding debt, we
may choose to incur substantial debt to complete a business combination. The
incurrence of debt:  

may lead to default and foreclosure on
our assets if our operating earnings after a business combination are
insufficient to pay our debt obligations; 

            may cause an acceleration of our
obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and
interest payments when due if we breach the covenants contained in any debt
agreements, such as covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial
ratios or reserves, without a waiver or renegotiation of such covenants; 

            may create an obligation to immediately repay
all principal and accrued interest, if any, upon demand to the extent any debts
are payable on demand; and 

            may hinder our ability to obtain additional
financing, if necessary, to the extent any debt agreements contain covenants
restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such debt is
outstanding, or to the extent our existing leverage discourages other potential
investors. 

Our ability to successfully effect a
business combination and to be successful afterwards will be completely
dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us
following a business combination and may be unfamiliar with the requirements of
operating a public company, which may adversely affect our operations.    

Our ability to successfully effect a business
combination will be completely dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel.
The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however,
cannot presently be fully ascertained. Specifically, the members of our current
management are not obligated to remain with us subsequent to a business
combination, and we cannot assure you that the resignation or retention of our
current management will be included as a term or condition in any agreement
with respect to a business combination. Although we expect one or more members
of our management to serve on our board of directors following a business
combination, subject to continued election by the stockholders, it is unlikely
that they will operate the target company on a day-to-day basis.   

9  

Accordingly,
we anticipate employing other personnel   following  the business combination. While we intend to
closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business
combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will
prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements
of operating a public company as well as United States securities laws which
could cause us to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with
such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various
regulatory issues that may adversely affect our operations. 

Our officers and directors are not required to, and
will not, commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict
of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses.
This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business
combination. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the
consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers is engaged in
other business endeavors and is not obligated to contribute any specific number
of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers  other business affairs
require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs in excess of
their current commitment levels, it could limit their ability to devote time to
our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a
business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be
resolved in our favor.  

Our officers and directors are and
may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business
activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly,
may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular
business opportunity should be presented.    

Our officers and directors may in the future become
affiliated with entities, including other  blank check  companies, engaged in
business activities similar to those conducted by us. Additionally, our
officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be
appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which
they are or may be affiliated. Further, certain of our officers and directors
are currently involved in other businesses that are similar to the business
activities that we intend to conduct following a business combination. For
example, Joel R. Jacks, our chairman and chief executive officer, and Peter M.
Schulte, our president, chief financial officer and secretary, have preexisting
fiduciary obligations that arise as a result of their affiliations with the
private equity funds for which they act as principals and their directorships
with those funds  portfolio companies. In addition, Dr. Edward H. Bersoff,
our vice-chairman, and Arthur L. Money, our non-executive director, serve on
the boards of various companies in the federal services and defense industries.
Due to these existing affiliations, our officers and directors may have
fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those
entities prior to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts
of interest. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to
which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot
assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor.  

Because all of our directors own
shares of our securities that will not participate in liquidation
distributions, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a
particular target business is appropriate for a business combination.    

All of our directors own stock in our company, but
have, solely with respect to those shares of common stock acquired by them
prior to our initial public offering, waived their right to receive
distributions upon our liquidation in the event we fail to complete a business
combination. Additionally, Joel R. Jacks, Peter M. Schulte, Dr. Edward H.
Bersoff and FSAC Partners, LLC purchased warrants in the public marketplace following
our initial public offering. None of our executive directors or any of their
affiliates is precluded from acquiring additional warrants in the aftermarket
if any of them so chooses. All of the shares of common stock owned by our
directors immediately prior to our public offering and any warrants owned by our
directors will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The
personal and financial interests of our directors may influence their
motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a
business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, our directors 
discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result
in a conflict of interest when   

10  

determining
whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination
are appropriate and in our stockholders  best interest.  

If our common stock becomes subject
to the SEC s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in
completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be
adversely affected.    

If at any time we have net tangible assets of
$5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less
than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the  penny stock 
rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under
these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than
institutional accredited investors must:  

make a special written suitability
determination for the purchaser; 

            receive the purchaser s written agreement to
a transaction prior to sale; 

            provide the purchaser with risk disclosure
documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in  penny
stocks  and which describe the market for these  penny stocks  as well as a
purchaser s legal remedies; and 

            obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from
the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the
required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a  penny stock  can
be completed. 

If our common stock becomes subject to these rules,
broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and
trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the
market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more
difficult to sell our securities.  

We will only be able to complete one
business combination with the proceeds of our public offering, which will cause
us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number
of services or products.    

The net proceeds from our initial public offering
have provided us with approximately $119,169,000, which we may use to complete
our initial business combination. Our initial business combination must be with
an operating business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net
assets at the time of such business combination. It is probable that the
company we acquire in our initial business combination will have only a limited
number of services or products. The resulting lack of diversification:  

will result in our dependency upon the
performance of a single operating business; 

            may result in our dependency upon the
development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of services,
processes or products; and 

            may subject us to numerous economic,
competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a
substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate
subsequent to a business combination. 

In this case, we will not be able to diversify our
operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of
losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several
business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single
industry so as to diversify risks and offset losses. Further, the prospects for
our success will be entirely dependent upon the performance of the initial
target business we acquire and such target business may not be successful.  

11  

Because of our limited resources and
the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not
be able to consummate an attractive business combination.    

We expect to encounter intense competition from
other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture
capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for
acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive
experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or
through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human
and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively
limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we
believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could
acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, together with
additional financing if available, our ability to compete in acquiring certain
sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources.
This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the
acquisition of certain target businesses. Further:  

our obligation to seek stockholder approval
of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction; 

            our obligation to convert into cash certain
shares of common stock in the event a business combination is consummated and
public stockholders owning less than 20% of the shares sold in our initial
public offering vote against such business combination and exercise their
conversion rights may reduce the resources available for a business
combination; and 

            our outstanding warrants, and the future
dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain
target businesses. 

Any of these obligations may place us at a
competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination.  

We may have insufficient resources
to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating a business
combination.    

As of October 25, 2005, we reserved approximately $1,989,000
from the proceeds of our initial public offering to cover our operating
expenses for at least 24 months following the date we consummated our initial
public offering, and to cover the expenses incurred in connection with a
business combination. This amount is based on management s estimates of the
costs needed to fund our operations for such period and consummate a business
combination. Those estimates may prove inaccurate, especially if a portion of
the available proceeds is used to make a down payment or pay exclusivity or
similar fees in connection with a business combination or if we expend a
significant portion of the available proceeds in pursuit of a business
combination that is not consummated. If we do not have sufficient proceeds
available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional
financing, either from our management or our founders or from third parties. We
may not be able to obtain additional financing and our existing stockholders
and management are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do
not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing when needed
to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to
restructure or abandon that particular business combination or seek alternate
target businesses, and eventually may be forced to liquidate prior to
consummating a business combination. In addition, if we consummate a business
combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or
growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could
have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the
target business.  

12  

Our founders control a substantial
interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder
vote.    

Our founders collectively own 20% of our issued and
outstanding shares of common stock as of March 15, 2006. Additionally, as of March
15, 2006, four of our founders, Joel R. Jacks, Peter M. Schulte,
Dr. Edward H. Bersoff and FSAC Partners, LLC, collectively owned 3,699,528
warrants, or 8.8% of our outstanding warrants.  

Furthermore, our founders are not precluded from
purchasing additional warrants or shares of common stock in the aftermarket. Any
exercise of these warrants by our founders would substantially increase their
relative percentage ownership in us.  

Our board of directors is divided into three
classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only
one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there
will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation
of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will
continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination.
If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our  staggered  board of
directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for
election and our founders, because of their ownership position, will have
considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our founders will
continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business
combination. In addition, our founders and their affiliates and relatives are
not prohibited from purchasing units or shares in the aftermarket, and have
full voting rights with respect to any shares of common stock they may acquire
in such market transactions. If they do, we cannot assure you that our founders
will not have considerable influence upon the vote on a business combination.  

Our amended and restated certificate
of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions that may make it more
difficult, expensive or otherwise discourage, a tender offer or a change in
control or takeover attempt by a third party, even if such a transaction would
be beneficial to our stockholders.    

The existence of certain provisions in our amended
and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have a negative
impact on the price of our common stock by discouraging a third party from
purchasing our common stock. These provisions could also have the effect of
discouraging a third party from pursuing a non-negotiated takeover of our
company and preventing certain changes of control. In addition to our staggered
board, our by-laws require that, subject to certain exceptions, any stockholder
desiring to propose business or nominate a person to the board of directors at
a stockholders meeting must give notice of any proposals or nominations within
a specified time frame. Our by-laws also limit the ability of stockholders to
remove directors, call stockholders meetings and act by written consent and
provide that vacancies of the board of directors may only be filled by a
majority of the remaining directors.  

Our outstanding warrants may have an
adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult
to effect a business combination.    

In connection with our initial public offering, as
part of the units, we issued warrants to purchase 42,000,000 shares of common
stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business
combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of
additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less
attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such
securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding
shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to
complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more
difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of a target
business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the
shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price
for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and
to the extent these warrants are exercised, you will experience dilution to
your holdings.  

13  

If our founders exercise their
registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our
common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to
effect a business combination.    

Our founders are entitled to demand that we register
the resale of their shares of common stock in certain circumstances. If our founders
exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of
common stock, then there will be an additional 5,250,000 shares of common stock
eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional
number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may
have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition,
the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business
combination or increase the cost of a target business, as the stockholders of a
particular target business may be discouraged from entering into a business
combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a
result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their
exercise may have on the trading price of our common stock.  

Our securities are quoted on the OTC
Bulletin Board, which limits the liquidity and price of our securities more
than if our securities were quoted or listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or a
national exchange.    

Our securities are traded in the over-the-counter
market and are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an inter-dealer automated
quotation system for equity securities sponsored and operated by the National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., or NASD, but not included in the
Nasdaq Stock Market. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to
be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Quotation of our securities on the OTC
Bulletin Board may limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if
our securities were quoted or listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market or a national
exchange. Lack of liquidity may limit the price at which you may be able to
sell our securities or your ability to sell our securities at all.  

If we are deemed to be an investment
company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and
our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to
complete a business combination.    

If we are deemed to be an investment company under
the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, our activities may be
restricted, including:  

restrictions on the nature of our
investments; and 

            restrictions on the issuance of securities,
each of which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. 

In
addition, we may have burdensome requirements imposed upon us, including:  

registration as an investment company; 

            adoption of a specific form of corporate
structure; and 

            reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and
disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. 

We do not believe that our principal activities will
subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds
held in the trust account may only be invested by the trust agent in  government
securities  with specific maturity dates or in money market funds meeting
certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act
of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we
intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1
promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be
subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940, compliance with these additional
regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not provided
for.  

14  

Our directors may not be considered  independent 
under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators
Association, Inc. and, therefore, may take actions or incur expenses that
are not deemed to be independently approved or independently determined to be
in our best interest.    

Under the policies of the North American Securities
Administrators Association, Inc., an international organization devoted to
investor protection, because each of our directors owns shares of our
securities and may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by
them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential
target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business
combinations, state securities administrators could take the position that such
individuals are not  independent.  If this were the case, they would take the
position that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining
the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement
by us. Additionally, there is no limit on the out-of-pocket expenses that could
be incurred  by our directors and there will be no review
of the reasonableness of the expenses we reimburse by anyone other than our
board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement or a
court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursements are challenged. To the
extent such out-of-pocket expenses exceed the available funds, such
out-of-pocket expenses would not be reimbursed by us unless we consummate a
business combination. Although we believe that all actions taken by our
directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not they are
deemed to be  independent,  we cannot assure you that this will actually be the
case. If actions are taken or expenses are incurred that are actually not in
our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and
operations and the price of our stock held by our stockholders. 

Risks
associated with the federal services and defense industries   

We may acquire an operating business that contracts
directly with the federal government and its agencies, in which case the risks
below would directly affect us. We may also acquire an operating business that acts
as a subcontractor, supplier or partner with another party or parties that
contract with the federal government and its agencies, in which case the risk
factors below would still affect us directly or indirectly.  

The loss or impairment of our
relationship with the federal government and its agencies could adversely
affect our business.    

Our target company may derive a substantial portion
of its revenue from government contracts, either directly or as a
subcontractor, partner or supplier to a party working under such a contract. If
our target company or other company with which it had any such relationship
were suspended or prohibited from contracting with the federal government or
its agencies, or with a significant agency of the government, or if any of
these agencies ceased doing business with them or significantly decreased the
amount of business it does with them, our target company s business, prospects,
financial condition and operating results could be significantly impaired.  

Changes by the federal government in
its spending priorities may cause a reduction in the demand for the products or
services that we may ultimately offer, which could adversely affect our
business.    

Because our target company may derive a significant
portion of its revenues from contracts with the federal government or its
agencies, we believe that the success and development of the target company s
business will depend on its successful participation in the federal contract
program. Changes in the federal government budgetary priorities could directly
affect the target company s financial performance. Government expenditures tend
to fluctuate based on a variety of political, economic and social factors. A
significant decline in government expenditures, or a shift of expenditures away
from programs our target company supports, or a change in federal government
contracting policies causing its agencies to reduce their expenditures under
contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts at any time without
penalty, not to exercise options to renew contracts or to delay or not enter
into new contracts, could adversely affect our target company s business,
prospects, financial condition or operating results. Moreover, although   

15  

contracts
with governmental agencies often contemplate that the services will be
performed over a period of several years, Congress usually must approve funds
for a given program each government fiscal year and may significantly reduce or
eliminate funding for a program. Significant reductions in these appropriations
by Congress or the failure by Congress to pass a budget resolution in a timely
manner could have a material adverse effect on our target company s business.  

Federal government contracts often
contain provisions that are unfavorable, which could adversely affect our
business.    

Federal government contracts contain provisions and
are subject to laws and regulations that give the federal government rights and
remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including without
limitation, allowing the federal government to:  

terminate existing contracts for convenience,
as well as for default; 

            reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts; 

            cancel multi-year contracts and related
orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become
unavailable; 

            decline to exercise an option to renew a
multi-year contract; 

            claim rights in services or products provided
by the target company; 

            suspend or bar the target company from doing
business with the federal government or with a governmental agency; and 

            control or prohibit the export of products. 

If the federal government terminates a contract  for
convenience  (for instance, due to a change in its perceived needs or its
desire to consolidate work under another contract), our target company may
recover only its incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on
services completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a
contract for default, our target company may not recover even those amounts,
and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government or agency
in procuring undelivered services or products from another source. As is common
with government contractors, some of our target company s contracts may
experience performance issues in the future. Our target company may in the
future receive  show cause  or cure notices under contracts that, if not
addressed to the government s satisfaction, could give the government the right
to terminate those contracts for default or to cease procuring services under
those contracts in the future. Even if the target company is not directly the
party to a government contract, as in the case of a subcontract relationship,
the impact of the above on the prime contractor would likely have a material
adverse effect on our target company.  

We will likely have to comply with
complex procurement laws and regulations, and the cost of compliance with these
laws and regulations and penalties and sanctions for any non-compliance could
adversely affect our business.    

Our target company will likely have to comply with
and will be affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation,
administration and performance of federal government contracts, which affect
how the target company does business with its customers and may impose added
costs on its business. For example, our target company or parties with which it
does business will likely be subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations and
all supplements, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration
and performance of federal government contracts, and to the
Truth-in-Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost
and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations. If a government
review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, our target
company may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative
sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits,
suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business
with federal government agencies, which could materially adversely affect our
target company s business, prospects, financial condition or operating results.
In addition, our target company or parties with which it   

16  

does
business will likely be subject to industrial security   regulations  of the Department of Defense and other
federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against foreigners  access to
classified information. The target company may also be liable for systems and
services failure and security breaks with respect to the solutions, services or
products, or other applications it sells to the government. If the target
company were to come under foreign ownership, control or influence, its federal
government customers could terminate or decide not to renew their contracts,
and it could impair their ability to grant new contracts to our target company. 

The federal government may reform its
procurement or other practices in a manner adverse to us.    

The federal government may reform its procurement
practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including
cost-accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair
our target company s ability to obtain new contracts. It also could adopt new
contracting methods for General Services Administration, or GSA, or other
government-wide contracts, or adopt new standards for contract awards intended
to achieve certain social or other policy objectives, such as establishing new
set-aside programs for small or minority-owned businesses. In addition, the
federal government may face restrictions from new legislation or regulations,
as well as pressure from government employees and their unions, on the nature
and amount of services the federal government may obtain from private
contractors. These changes could impair our target company s ability to obtain
new contracts. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively
difficult for our target company to implement and, as a result, could harm its
operating results.  

Government contracts are usually
awarded through a competitive bidding process which entails risks not present
in other circumstances.    

A meaningful amount of the business that our target
company may expect to seek directly or through parties with which it does
business in the foreseeable future will likely be awarded through competitive
bidding. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including without
limitation:  

the need to bid on programs in advance of the
completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological
difficulties and cost overruns; 

            the substantial cost and managerial time and
effort that our target company may spend to prepare bids and proposals for
contracts that may not be awarded to our target company; 

            the need to accurately estimate the resources
and cost structure that will be required to service any contract our target
company is awarded; and 

            the expense and delay that may arise if our
target company s or its partners  competitors protest or challenge contract
awards made to our target company or partners pursuant to competitive bidding,
and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the
resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction
or modification of the awarded contract. 

Our target company may not be provided the
opportunity to bid on contracts that are held by other companies and are
scheduled to expire if the government determines to extend the existing
contracts. If our target company is unable to win particular contracts that are
awarded through the competitive bidding process or our target company is unable
to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period its business
and prospects could be adversely affected.  

Federal government customers
sometimes spend their procurement budgets through multiple award contracts and
our target company s failure to successfully compete for post-award orders
under these contracts could adversely affect its business.    

Budgetary pressure and reforms in the procurement
process may cause the federal government to increase its use of task order or
delivery order contracts (commonly known in the industry as  indefinite
delivery, indefinite quantity  contracts, or ID/IQ contracts), including GSA
Contracts, and other   

17  

government-wide
acquisition contracts, or GWAC contracts, to purchase services or products. Under
a task order or delivery order contract, the federal government may submit, but
is not required to submit, orders for services or products. Thus, the revenue
that may be realized under these contracts is not guaranteed, but instead
depends, among other things, on the quantity of orders that the government in
fact submits to the contractor. Such contracts, some of which are awarded to
multiple contractors, have increased pricing pressure and require that
contractors make sustained post-award efforts to procure service orders in
order to realize revenue under such contracts. Our target company may not be
able to successfully sell its services or products or otherwise increase its
revenues under these contracts. Our target company s failure to compete effectively
in the procurement environment could have a material adverse effect on our
target company s business, prospects, financial condition and results of
operations.  

We may lose money on some contracts
if we underestimate the resources we need to perform under the contract.    

Our target company may provide services or products
to the federal government under three types of contracts: cost-plus-fee,
time-and-materials, and fixed-price. Each of these types of contracts, to
differing degrees, involves the risk that our target company could
underestimate its cost of fulfilling the contract, which may reduce the profit
it earns or lead to a financial loss on the contract.  

Under cost-plus-fee contracts, which are
subject to a ceiling amount, our target company may be reimbursed for allowable
costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. However, if its
costs exceed the ceiling or are not allowable under the terms of the contract
or applicable regulations, our target company may not be able to recover those
costs. 

            Under time-and-materials contracts, our
target company may be reimbursed for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates
and for certain expenses, and our target company assumes the risk that its
costs of performance may exceed the negotiated hourly rates. 

            Under fixed-price contracts, our target
company performs specific tasks for a fixed price. Compared to cost-plus-fee
contracts and time-and-materials contracts, fixed-price contracts involve
greater financial risk because our target company bears the impact of cost
overruns. To the extent its actual costs exceed the estimates upon which the
price was negotiated, our target company will generate less than the
anticipated amount of profit or could incur a loss. 

Our contracts with the federal
government and its agencies will be subject to audits and cost adjustments.    

The federal government audits and reviews
performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with
applicable laws, regulations and standards. Like most government contractors,
our target company s contract costs will be audited and reviewed on a continual
basis. In addition, nonaudit reviews by the government may still be conducted
on all government contracts. An audit of work performed by our target company
could result in a substantial adjustment to its revenues because any costs
found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed,
and revenues our target company may have already recognized may need to be
refunded. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, our
target company may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and
administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of
profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing
business with federal government agencies. In addition, our target company
could suffer serious harm to its reputation if allegations of impropriety were
made.  

18  

Our business depends upon obtaining
and maintaining required security clearances, and our failure to do so could
result in termination of certain of our contracts or cause us to be unable to
bid or rebid on certain contracts.    

Many federal government contracts will require our
target company s employees to maintain various levels of security clearances,
and our target company may be required to maintain certain facility security
clearances complying with federal government requirements. Obtaining and
maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and
it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold
security clearances. If our target company s employees are unable to obtain or
retain security clearances or if such employees who hold security clearances
terminate employment with the target company, the customer whose work requires
cleared employees could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon
its expiration. In addition, we expect that some of the contracts on which our
target company will bid will require it to demonstrate its ability to obtain
facility security clearances and perform work with employees who hold specified
types of security clearances. To the extent our target company is not able to
obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required
security clearances for a particular contract, it may not be able to bid on or
win new contracts, or effectively rebid on expiring contracts.  

Failure to maintain strong
relationship with other contractors could result in a decline in our revenue.    

Our target company may act as a subcontractor or
under a  teaming  arrangement in which the target company and other contractors
jointly bid on particular contracts or programs. As a subcontractor or team
member, the target company will often lack control over fulfillment of a
contract, and poor performance on the contract could tarnish its reputation,
even when the target company performs as required. Moreover, our target company s
revenue and operating results could be adversely affected if any prime
contractor or teammate chooses to offer a client services of the types that the
target company provides or if any prime contractor or teammate teams with other
companies to independently provide those services.  

We may rely on third-party
manufacturers or subcontractors to complete our contracts, and any delay or
failure to perform by these manufacturers or subcontractors may result in a
decline in our revenue.    

Our target company may use third-party manufacturers
in addition to or instead of any internal manufacturing capacity that it may
have. This arrangement affords less control over the reliability of supply,
quality and price of products or components than internal manufacturing. Our
target company may risk disruptions in its supply of key products and
components if its suppliers fail to perform because of strikes, natural
disasters, financial condition or other factors beyond the control of our
target business. Products that are supplied by a third-party manufacturer may
not perform as expected, and these performance failures may result in delays in
completion of a project or additional costs to complete a project. Any delay by
subcontractors to complete their portion of a project, or any failure by a subcontractor
to satisfactorily complete its portion of a project, may result in delays in
the overall progress of the project and may cause our target business to incur
additional costs. The additional costs incurred by our target company due to
the delay or failure to perform by a third-party manufacturer or a
subcontractor may be substantial. While our target company may recover some of
these additional costs from the responsible third-party manufacturer or
subcontractor, it may not be able to recover all of these costs in all
circumstances.  

We may be unable to protect or
enforce our intellectual property rights.    

After completing a business combination, the
protection of our target company s trade secrets, proprietary know-how,
technological innovations and other proprietary rights through patents and
other intellectual property protections in the U.S. and other countries may be
critical to our success. We may rely on a combination of patent, copyright,
trademark, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect any
proprietary technology or other rights that we may acquire. Despite our
efforts, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of those proprietary
rights or deter independent development of technologies that   

19  

compete
with the business we acquire. Our competitors may file patent applications or
obtain patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our patents. Litigation
may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to
protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the
proprietary rights of others. It is also possible that third parties may claim
we have infringed their patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary
rights. Claims or litigation, with or without merit, could result in
substantial costs and diversions of resources, either of which could have a
material adverse effect on our competitive position and business.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.   

None.  

Item 2. Properties.   

We do not own any real estate or other physical
properties materially important to our operation. Our headquarters are located
at 900 Third Avenue, 33rd Floor, New York, New York 10022-4775. The cost of
this space is included in the $7,500 per month fee CM Equity Management, L.P.
charges us for general and administrative service pursuant to a letter
agreement between us and CM Equity Management, L.P. We believe that our office
facilities are suitable and adequate for our business as it is presently
conducted.  

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.   

There are no material legal proceedings pending
against us.  

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders.   

Not applicable.  

20  

PART II   

Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.   

Our units, common stock and warrants are traded on
the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board under the symbols FDSAU, FDSA and FDSAW,
respectively. Each of our units consists of one share of our common stock and
two redeemable common stock purchase warrants. The following table sets forth
the range of high and low closing bid prices for the units, common stock and
warrants for the period indicated. The units commenced public trading on
October 19, 2005 and the common stock and warrants commenced public trading on December
5, 2005. The quotations listed below reflect interdealer prices without retail
markup, markdown or commission, and may not necessarily represent actual transactions.
Prior to October 19, 2005, there was no established public trading market
for our units. Prior to December 5, 2005, there was no established public
trading market for our common stock or warrants.  

Holders of Common Equity   

As of March 22, 2006, there were one (1) record
holder of our units, six (6) record holders of our common stock and one (1)
record holder of our warrants.  

Dividends   

We have not paid any dividends on our common stock
to date and do not intend to pay dividends prior to the completion of a
business combination. The payment of dividends in the future will be contingent
upon our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements and general
financial condition subsequent to completion of a business combination. The
payment of any dividends subsequent to a business combination will be within the
discretion of our then board of directors. It is the present intention of our
board of directors to retain all earnings, if any, for use in our business
operations and, accordingly, our board does not anticipate declaring any
dividends in the foreseeable future.  

21  

Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities   

On April 27, 2005, we sold the following shares of
common stock without registration under the Securities Act:  

*   Includes
1,207,500 shares held by FSAC Partners, LLC over which Messrs. Jacks and
Schulte have shared voting and dispositive power. The member of FSAC Partners,
LLC include Joel R. Jacks, Peter M. Schulte, Dr. Edward H. Bersoff and
employees and affiliates of CM Equity Partners who may assist the Company in
finding and evaluating a business combination. They will not receive any
compensation for such services. 

Such shares were issued in connection with our
organization pursuant to the exemption from registration contained in the
Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 as they were sold to sophisticated,
wealthy individuals or entities. The shares were issued for an aggregate
offering price of $6,000, at an average purchase price of approximately $0.001
per share. No underwriting discounts or commissions were paid with respect to
such sales.  

Use of Proceeds from our Initial Public Offering   

The effective date of our registration statement,
which was filed on Form S-1 under the Securities Act of 1933 (File No.
333-124638), and which relates to the initial public offering of our units, was
October 19, 2005. Each unit consists of one share of common stock, $.0001 par
value per share, and two warrants, each to purchase one share of common stock. Pursuant
to our registration we also registered common stock and warrants. Each warrant
is exercisable for one share of common stock. A total of 24,150,000 units,
including 3,150,000 units to cover any over-allotments, were registered at a
proposed maximum aggregate offering price of $144,900,000.  

The offering was consummated and terminated on
October 25, 2005. The managing underwriter for the offering was CRT Capital
Group LLC. A total of 21,000,000 units were sold in the offering for an
aggregate offering price of $126,000,000. Each of our units became separable
into its constituent parts of common stock and warrants on December 5, 2005.  

22  

Our use of net proceeds from our initial public
offering are as set forth in the following table:  

(1) A portion of the
offering expenses were paid from the funds we received from Joel R. Jacks and
Peter M. Schulte. These funds have been repaid out of the proceeds of our
initial public offering.  

  (2)    Miscellaneous
expenses include the reimbursement of our founders for out-of-pocket expenses
incurred in connection with the offering.  

$117,180,000 of net proceeds were placed in a trust
account, which has been invested in government securities, at JPMorgan Chase NY
Bank maintained by Continental Stock Transfer   Trust Company, New York,
New York, as trustee. These proceeds will not be released from the trust
account until the earlier of the completion of a business combination or our
liquidation. The proceeds held in the trust account may be used as
consideration to pay the sellers of a target business with which we ultimately
complete a business combination. Any amounts not paid as consideration to the
sellers of the target business may be used to finance operations of the target
business or to effect other acquisitions, as determined by our board of
directors at that time.  

We have agreed to pay CM Equity Management, L.P., an
affiliate of Messrs. Jacks and Schulte, a monthly fee of $7,500 for general and
administrative services including office space, utilities and secretarial
support. We believe, based on rents and fees for similar services in the New
York, New York metropolitan area, that the fee charged by CM Equity Management,
L.P. is at least as favorable as we could have obtained from an unaffiliated
third party.  

On October 25, 2005, we used $154,000 of our net
proceeds from the public offering to repay the notes payable to two of our
founders, Messrs. Jacks and Schulte. The loans were repaid in full, without
interest, and cancelled.  

Item 6. Selected Financial Data.   

The following is a summary of selected financial
data of the Company for the period from April 12, 2005, (inception) to December
31, 2005, which should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and
the notes thereto:  

23  

SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA   

Income statement data   

24  

Balance sheet data   

Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   

We are a  blank check  company organized under the
laws of the State of Delaware on April 12, 2005 and were formed for the
purpose of acquiring, through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset
acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business combination, an operating
business in the federal services and defense industries. We intend to use the
trust account funds, together with any additional financing arrangements that
we undertake, to effect a business combination.  

We have neither engaged in any operations nor
generated any revenues nor incurred any debt or expenses during the period
ended December 31, 2005, other than in connection with our public offering and,
thereafter, certain legal and other expenses related to pursuing acquisitions
of target businesses. Our entire activity since inception has been to prepare
for and consummate our initial public offering and to identify and investigate
target businesses for a business combination.  

Our net proceeds from the sale of our units, after deducting
offering expenses of approximately $531,000 and underwriting discounts of
$6,300,000, were approximately $119,169,000. Of this amount, $117,180,000, was
placed in trust and the remaining $1,989,000 was not placed in trust. We will
use substantially all of the net proceeds of our offering to acquire a target
business, including identifying and evaluating prospective acquisition
candidates, selecting the target business, and structuring, negotiating and
consummating the business combination. To the extent that our capital stock is
used in whole or in part as consideration to effect a business combination, the
proceeds held in the trust account as well as any other net proceeds not
expended will be used to finance the operations of the target business. We
believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account will be
sufficient to allow us to operate for at least the next 24 months, assuming
that a business combination is not consummated during that time. Since our
inception and until December 31, 2005, we have incurred the following expenses:  

$10,535 for legal, accounting, travel and
other expenses attendant to the due diligence investigations, structuring, and
negotiating of a business combination; 

                        $18,145 for administrative services and
support ($7,500 per month); 

                        $25,827 of expenses for legal and accounting
fees relating to our SEC reporting obligations; 

25  

$46,244 for franchise and capital taxes; 

                        $17,233 for director and officer liability
insurance premiums; and 

                        $15,177 for miscellaneous expenses and
reserves. 

We do not believe we will need to raise additional
funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However,
we may need to raise additional funds through a private offering of debt or
equity securities if such funds are required to consummate a business
combination that is presented to us. We would only consummate such a
fundraising simultaneously with the consummation of a business combination.  

On October 25, 2005, we used $154,000 of our general
working capital to repay the notes payable to our initial stockholders, Mr.
Jacks and Mr. Schulte. The loans were repaid in full, without interest, and
cancelled.  

On October 25, 2005, we used $85,000 of our general
working capital to pay premiums associated with our directors and officers 
liability insurance, of which, $67,767 of this amount represents the prepaid
portion for the cost of such insurance for 2006.  

We have agreed to pay, through the date of our
acquisition of a target business, CM Equity Management, L.P., an affiliate of
Messrs. Jacks and Schulte, $7,500 per month for office space and certain office
and secretarial services.  

As of December 31, 2005, approximately $117,990,384,
including interest receivable of $39,444, was held in trust and we had
approximately $1,855,000 of the available funds remaining and available to us
for our activities in connection with identifying and conducting due diligence
of a suitable business combination, and for general corporate matters.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk   

Market risk is the sensitivity of income to changes
in interest rates, foreign exchanges, commodity prices, equity prices, and
other market-driven rates or prices. We are not presently engaged in, and if a
suitable business target is not identified by us prior to the prescribed
liquidation of the trust account, we may not engage in, any substantive
commercial business. Accordingly, the risks associated with foreign exchange
rates, commodity prices, and equity prices are not significant. The available
funds which are not immediately required to pay our expenses have been invested
only in United States  government securities,  defined as any Treasury Bill
issued by the United States having a maturity of one hundred and eighty days or
less. Given our limited risk in our exposure to U.S. Treasury Bills, we do not
view the interest rate risk to be significant. We do not enter into derivatives
or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   

Reference is made to our financial statements
beginning on page F-1 of this report.  

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.   

Not applicable.  

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.   

Our management carried out an evaluation, with the
participation of our Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer) and
our Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) of the effectiveness
of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) or 15d
  15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of December 31,
2005. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures
were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in
reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and   

26  

reported,
within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  

There has not been any change in our internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d   15(f)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) in connection with the
evaluation required by Rule 13a-15(d) under the Exchange Act that occurred
during the quarter ended December 31, 2005, that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.  

Item 9B. Other Information.   

Not applicable.  

PART III   

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant.   

Our current directors and executive officers are as
follows:  

Name   

Age   

Position   

Joel
  R. Jacks  

58  

Chairman
  of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director  

Peter
  M. Schulte  

48  

President,
  Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Director  

Dr.
  Edward H. Bersoff  

63  

Vice-Chairman
  and Director  

Arthur
  L. Money  

66  

Director  

Joel R. Jacks  , who has served as our chairman and chief
executive officer since inception and a Director since April 20, 2005, has over
30 years of experience in private equity investing, mergers and
acquisitions and managing and operating companies in a wide variety of
industries. In 1996, Mr. Jacks together with Peter M. Schulte co-founded
CMLS Management, L.P. and in 2000 they co-founded CM Equity Management, L.P.
Mr. Jacks serves as a managing partner of each of these CM Equity
Management, L.P. entities. CM Equity Management, L.P. manages private equity
funds which make investments in middle-market companies, and specializes in
investing in companies which serve the federal government. CM Equity
Management, L.P. is affiliated with Carl Marks and Co. Inc., a privately-owned
merchant banking firm, since 1996. From 1992 to 1996, Mr. Jacks co-founded
and managed Carl Marks Consulting Group Co., the predecessor of Carl Marks
Advisory Group, LLC, a consulting company that is affiliated with Carl Marks
  Co., Inc. Neither Carl Marks   Co. Inc. nor any of its shareholders,
directors or officers owns any interest in us. From 1988 to 1992,
Mr. Jacks was involved in interim management and profit improvement
programs for under-performing companies as a private consultant. From 1984 to
1988, Mr. Jacks served as chief financial officer, was responsible for
information technology and subsequently was chief executive officer of USSCO
(affiliated with ADT, Ltd.), a distributor of security alarm and CCTV
equipment throughout the U.S. and Puerto Rico. From 1976 to 1983,
Mr. Jacks worked for The Penn Central Corporation as Director of Financial
Planning and Information Technology Director, where he was involved with the
restructuring of Penn Central s public securities, and was later assigned to
the New York City Partnership to assist the NYC Transportation Authority as the
Information Technology vice president. Prior to 1976, Mr. Jacks was a
management consultant for Deloitte Haskins   Sells. 

Mr. Jacks is a director of several portfolio
companies of CM Equity Partners, which are managed by CM Equity Management,
L.P. or CMLS Management, L.P., including ICF Consulting Group, Inc., a
management, technology and policy consulting firm in the areas of defense,
homeland security, energy, environment, social programs, and transportation
serving the Department of Defense, U.S. Department of   

27  

Homeland
Security, U.S. civil agencies and the commercial sector; 3001, Inc., a
geospatial data analysis firm serving various national security and civil
agencies of the federal government; Falcon Communications, Inc., a global
provider of mobile and fixed satellite communications services to commercial,
U.S. and international government clients, as well as emergency response,
crisis management and humanitarian organizations; Echo Bridge Entertainment,
LLC; Evans Consoles Inc., a Canadian company that consummated a court-ordered
reorganization in 2004 by which all of its assets were transferred to its
creditors; Martin Designs, Inc. and Devon Publishing Group. Mr. Jacks
was previously a director of Resource Consultants, Inc., a technical
services and program management firm serving the Department of Defense and
federal civil agencies; Examination Management Services, Inc. (EMSI),
which, subsequent to Mr. Jacks  serving as Chairman of the Board,
underwent a voluntary restructuring in January 2005 resulting in the senior
lenders and certain members of management owning all of the equity in EMSI s
business and, consequently, CM Equity Partners losing its investment in EMSI;
Kronos Products, Inc.; Central Foodservice Co. and a member of the
executive committee of Missota Paper Holding LLC, a company whose assets were
sold in 2004 to an unaffiliated third party at a loss. From January 2000
to April 2003, Mr. Jacks was chairman of Beta Brands Incorporated, a
Canadian manufacturer, exporter and marketer of quality confectionery and baked
goods products. In May 2003, following default by Beta Brands in the
repayment of its secured indebtedness, a Canadian court approved a consensual
foreclosure by which the secured lenders acquired all of the assets of Beta
Brands. As a consequence of the foreclosure, CM Equity Partners lost its equity
investment in Beta Brands.  

Mr. Jacks received a Bachelor of Commerce
degree from the University of Cape Town and an MBA from the Wharton School,
University of Pennsylvania.  

Peter M. Schulte  , who has served as our president and
secretary since inception, as chief financial officer since November 8, 2005
and as a Director since April 20, 2005, has over 20 years of experience in
private equity investing and mergers and acquisitions. In 1996,
Mr. Schulte together with Mr. Jacks co-founded CMLS Management, L.P.,
and in 2000 they co-founded CM Equity Management, L.P. Mr. Schulte serves
as a managing partner of each of these CM Equity Management, L.P. entities. From
1992 to 1996, Mr. Schulte co-founded and co-managed a private equity investment
partnership that was associated with Carl Marks   Co., Inc. and that
focused on private equity investments and acquisitions of middle-market
companies. From 1990 to 1992, Mr. Schulte was a member of the buyout group
at Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder, Inc. From 1983 to 1990, Mr. Schulte
was a vice president of Salomon Brothers Inc. Prior to graduate school,
Mr. Schulte was employed at IBM in its Data Processing Division (DPD)
focused on the financial services sector. 

Mr. Schulte is a director of several portfolio
companies of CM Equity Partners, which are managed by CM Equity Management,
L.P. or CMLS Management, L.P., including ICF Consulting Group, Inc.;
3001, Inc.; Falcon Communications, Inc.; and Echo Bridge Entertainment,
LLC. Mr. Schulte was previously a director of Resource
Consultants, Inc.; AverStar, Inc., a provider of information
technology services and software products for the mission-critical systems of
federal, civil and defense agencies and to large commercial companies, which
was managed by the private equity investment partnership co-managed by
Mr. Schulte from 1992 to 1996; Evans Consoles, Inc., a Canadian
company that consummated a court-ordered reorganization in 2004 by which all of
its assets were transferred to its creditors; Kronos Products, Inc.;
Central Foodservice Co.; and as a member of the executive committee of Missota
Paper Holding LLC, a company whose assets were sold in 2004 to an unaffiliated
third party at a loss. Subsequent to the Canadian court-approved foreclosure of
the assets of Beta Brands Incorporated and until its dissolution,
Mr. Schulte was a director of Beta Brands Incorporated.  

Mr. Schulte received a BA in Government from
Harvard College and a Masters in Public and Private Management from the Yale
School of Management.  

Dr. Edward H. Bersoff   has served as our vice-chairman and Director
since April 27, 2005. Dr. Bersoff is the chairman and founder of Greenwich
Associates, a business advisory firm located in Northern Virginia which was
formed in 2003. From November 2002 to June 2003, he was managing director of
Quarterdeck Investment Partners, LLC, an investment banking firm, and chairman
of Re-route  

28  

Corporation,
a company that offers email forwarding and address correction services. From
February 1982 until November 2001, Dr. Bersoff was chairman, president and
chief executive officer of BTG, Inc., an information technology firm he founded
in 1982. Under Dr. Bersoff s leadership, BTG, Inc. completed six acquisitions
in the federal services industry. In November 2001 BTG, Inc. was acquired by
The Titan Corporation, a NYSE listed company. Dr. Bersoff served as a director
of Titan from February 2002 until August 2005 when Titan was sold to L-3 Corporation.
Dr. Bersoff serves on the boards of EFJ, Inc., a manufacturer of wireless
communications products and systems primarily for public service and government
customers, and Fargo Electronics, Inc., a manufacturer of identity card
issuance systems, materials and software for government and corporate
applications, which are both public companies, and a number of private
companies, including 3001, Inc. and ICF Consulting, Inc., each of which are
portfolio companies of CM Equity Management, L.P.  

Dr.
Bersoff holds A.B., M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in mathematics from New York
University and is a graduate of the Harvard Business School s Owner/President
Management Program. Previously, as an officer in the U.S. Army, he was assigned
to the NASA Electronics Research Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  

Dr.
Bersoff is the Rector of the Board of Visitors of Virginia Commonwealth
University, a Trustee of the VCU Medical Center, and a Trustee of New York
University. He also serves as a Trustee of the Inova Health System.  

Arthur L. Money   has served as a Director since April 27,
2005. Mr. Money served as Assistant Secretary of Defense (ASD) for Command,
Control, Communications and Intelligence from 1998 to 2001. Mr. Money also
served as the Department of Defense Chief of Information from 1998 to 2001 and
as the Senior Civilian Officer, Office of the ASD from 1998 to 1999. Mr. Money
served as Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Research, Development and
Acquisition, and as Chief Information Officer for the Air Force from 1996 to
1998. Prior to that, Mr. Money was Vice President and Deputy General Manager of
TRW s Avionics and Surveillance Group and held various positions with ESL Inc.
(a subsidiary of TRW) from 1990 to 1994. 

Mr.
Money is a director of the following public companies: CACI International Inc,
Silicon Graphics, Inc., SafeNet, Inc., Essex Corporation, Intelli-Check, Inc.,
Terremark Worldwide, Inc., Intevac, Inc. and SteelCloud, Inc. Mr. Money also
serves on the boards of directors of various private companies. Mr. Money
serves on the advisory boards of several companies in the federal services and
defense industries.  

Our
board of directors is divided into three classes with only one class of
directors being elected in each year and each class serving a three-year term. The
term of office of the first class of directors, consisting of Dr. Edward
H. Bersoff will expire at our first annual meeting of stockholders. The term of
office of the second class of directors, consisting of Joel R. Jacks and Arthur
L. Money will expire at the second annual meeting. The term of office of the
third class of directors, consisting of Peter M. Schulte, will expire at the
third annual meeting.  

These
individuals will play a key role in identifying and evaluating prospective acquisition
candidates, selecting the target business, and structuring, negotiating and
consummating its acquisition. None of these individuals has been a principal of
or affiliated with a public company or blank check company that executed a
business plan similar to our business plan and none of these individuals is
currently affiliated with such an entity. However, we believe that the skills
and expertise of these individuals, their collective access to acquisition
opportunities and ideas, their contacts, and their transaction expertise should
enable them to successfully identify and effect a business combination. However,
we cannot assure you that they will, in fact, be able to do so.  

Audit
Committee   

On November 8,
2005, our board of directors established an Audit Committee. The Audit
Committee was established to provide assistance to the board of directors in
fulfilling its oversight   

29  

responsibility to the stockholders, potential stockholders, the investment
community, and others relating to our financial statements and the financial
reporting process, our systems of internal accounting and financial controls,
the internal audit function, the annual independent audit of our financial
statements and report on internal control over financial reporting, and the
legal compliance and ethics programs as established by management and our board
of directors. In so doing, it is the responsibility of the Audit Committee to
maintain free and open communication among the Audit Committee, our independent
registered public accounting firm, and our management. In discharging its
oversight role, the Audit Committee is empowered to investigate any matter
brought to its attention with full access to all books, records, facilities,
and personnel and has the power to retain outside counsel or other experts for
this purpose. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Audit Committee is not
responsible for conducting audits, preparing financial statements, or assuring
the accuracy of financial statements or filings, all of which is the
responsibility of our management and the independent registered public
accounting firm. Dr. Edward H. Bersoff and Mr. Arthur L. Money comprise the
Audit Committee, of which Dr. Bersoff is the Chairman.  

The Company s board of directors has not determined whether any of the
members of the Audit Committee of the board of directors meets the definition
of  audit committee financial expert  as defined in the rules adopted by the
Securities and Exchange Commission because we currently are not an operating
company and, therefore, have not sought out a person with such qualifications
to add to our board of directors. The Audit Committee did not meet during the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.  

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance   

Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, requires our officers, directors and persons who beneficially
own more than ten percent of our common stock to file reports of ownership and
changes in ownership with the SEC. These reporting persons are also required to
furnish us with copies of all Section 16(a) forms they file. All of these
reports were filed in a timely manner.  

Code of Ethics   

Our board of directors has adopted a Code of
Ethics for our employees, officers and directors, available on our website at
www.fedsac.com.  

Item 11. Executive Compensation.   

No executive officer or director has received any
cash compensation for services rendered. We will not pay any finders or
consulting fees to our founders, or any of their respective affiliates, for
services rendered to or in connection with the consummation of the business
combination. However, our founders will receive reimbursement for any
out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our
behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due
diligence on suitable business combinations. There is no limit on the amount of
these out-of-pocket expenses and there will be no review of the reasonableness
of the expenses or fees by anyone other than our board of directors, which
includes persons who may be entitled to reimbursement or a court of competent
jurisdiction if such expenses are challenged. If all of our directors are not
deemed  independent,  we will not have the benefit of independent directors
examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to
reimbursement or monitoring our compliance with the terms of this offering. In
addition, because the role of our current management and directors subsequent
to a business combination is uncertain, we have no ability to determine what
remuneration, if any, will be paid to our current management and directors
after a business combination. We have agreed to pay CM Equity Management, L.P.,
an affiliate of Messrs. Jacks and Schulte, a monthly fee of $7,500 for general
and administrative services including office space, utilities and secretarial
support.  

30  

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.   

The following table sets forth information regarding
the beneficial ownership of our common stock as of February 28, 2006, by each
of our officers and directors, all of our officers and directors as a group,
and each person known by us, as a result of such person s public filings with
the SEC and the information contained therein, to be the beneficial owner of
more than 5% of our outstanding shares of common stock.  

*
Less than 1% of shares of our common stock outstanding.  

(1)  

Unless
  otherwise indicated, the business address of each of the above is 900 Third
  Avenue, 33 rd  Floor, New York, New York 10022-4775.  

(2)  

Includes
  1,207,500 shares held by FSAC Partners, LLC over which Messrs. Jacks and
  Schulte have shared voting and dispositive power. The members of FSAC Partners,
  LLC include Joel R. Jacks, Peter M. Schulte, Dr. Edward H. Bersoff and
  employees and affiliates of CM Equity Partners who may assist the Company in
  finding and evaluating a business combination. They will not receive any
  compensation for such services.  

(3)  

Does
  not include 803,184 shares of common stock issueable upon the exercise of
  warrants held by Mr. Jacks, which warrants are exercisable upon the later of
  the completion of a business combination or October 19, 2006. Does not
  include 1,849,764 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of
  warrants held by FSAC Partners, LLC, which warrants are exercisable upon the
  later of the completion of a business combination or October 19, 2006.  

(4)  

Does
  not include 803,184 shares of common stock issueable upon the exercise of
  warrants held by Mr. Schulte, which warrants are exercisable upon the later
  of the completion of a business combination or October 19, 2006. Does not
  include 1,849,764 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of warrants
  held by FSAC Partners, LLC, which warrants are exercisable upon the later of
  the completion of a business combination or October 19, 2006.  

(5)  

Does
  not include any shares or warrants held by FSAC Partners, LLC, of which Dr.
  Bersoff is a member. Dr. Bersoff does not currently have voting or
  dispositive power as to any shares or warrants held by FSAC Partners, LLC.
  Does not include 243,396 shares of common stock issueable upon the exercise
  of warrants held by Dr. Bersoff, which warrants are exercisable upon the
  later of the completion of a business combination or October 19, 2006.  

(6)  

As
  reported in a Schedule 13G dated October 31, 2005, and filed with the SEC on
  October 31, 2005.  

(7)  

As
  reported in a Schedule 13G dated October 25, 2005, and filed with the SEC on
  October 25, 2005.  

31  

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions.   

On April 20, 2005, we issued an aggregate of 100
shares to Joel R. Jacks and Peter M. Schulte and, on April 27, 2005, we issued
5,249,900 shares of our common stock to the individuals set forth below as
follows:  

Such shares were issued in connection with our organization
pursuant to the exemption from registration contained in the Section 4(2) of
the Securities Act of 1933 as they were sold to sophisticated, wealthy
individuals or entities. The shares were issued for an aggregate offering price
of $6,000, at an average purchase price of approximately $0.001 per share. No
underwriting discounts or commissions were paid with respect to such sales.  

The holders of the majority of these shares will be
entitled to make up to two demands that FSAC register these shares pursuant to
a registration rights agreement previously entered into. The holders of the
majority of these shares may elect to exercise these registration rights at any
time after the date on which these shares of common stock are released from
escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, is not before October 19, 2008.
In addition, these stockholders have certain  piggy-back  registration rights
on registration statements filed subsequent to the date on which these shares
of common stock are released from escrow. We will bear the expenses incurred in
connection with the filing of any such registration statements.  

On October 25, 2005, we used $154,000 of our net
proceeds from the public offering to repay the notes payable to our initial
stockholders, Mr. Jacks and Mr. Schulte. The loans were repaid in full, without
interest, and cancelled.  

We will reimburse our officers and directors for any
reasonable out-of-pocket business expenses incurred by them in connection with
certain activities on our behalf such as identifying and investigating possible
target businesses and business combinations. There is no limit on the amount of
accountable out-of-pocket expenses reimbursable by us, which will be reviewed
only by our board of directors or a court of competent jurisdiction if such
reimbursement is challenged.  

All ongoing and future transactions between us and
any of our officers and directors or their respective affiliates, including
loans by our officers and directors, will be, or are, on terms believed by us
to be no less favorable than are available from unaffiliated third parties, and
such transactions or loans, including any forgiveness of loans, will require
prior approval in each instance by a majority of our uninterested  independent 
directors (to the extent we have any) or the members of our board of directors
who do not have an interest in the transaction, in either case who had access,
at our expense, to independent legal counsel.  

32  

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services.   

The
fees billed by Eisner LLP for services rendered to us in 2005 were as follows
(we did not pay any fees to Eisner LLP for services that fall under the
categories  Audit-Related Fees,   Tax Fees  or  All Other Fees , as such
categories are defined in the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission):  

Audit Fees   

Fees
incurred in connection with our initial public offering, the review of our
quarterly financial statements, and services provided in connection with the
our statutory and regulatory filings in respect of year ended December 31, 2005
were in the amount of $39,000.  

Pre    -    Approval     of     Fees   

All the
services and fees described above were approved by our full board of directors
which considered whether the provision of non-audit related services was
compatible with maintaining the independence of Eisner LLP. Commencing on
November 8, 2005, t he Audit Committee of the Board of Directors
was granted the authority to pre-approve all auditing services and all
non-audit services (including the fees and terms thereof) to be performed by
the independent auditors. The Audit Committee may delegate to the Audit
Committee Chairman the authority to grant pre-approvals for audit and permitted
non-audit services to be performed for us by the independent auditor, provided
that decisions of such member to grant pre-approvals shall be presented to the
full Audit Committee at its next regularly scheduled meeting. Substantially all hours expended on the
independent registered public accounting firm s engagement to audit the Company s financial statement for the year
ended December 31, 2005, were attributed to work performed by persons that were
full-time, permanent employees of the independent registered public
accounting firm.  

PART IV   

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.   

(a)       The following documents are filed as a part of this Report:  

1.           Financial Statements  :  

Index
to Financial Statements and Schedules  

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

Balance
sheet as of December 31, 2005  

Statement
of operations for the period from April 12, 2005 (date of inception) through
December 31, 2005  

Statement
of changes in stockholders  equity for the period from April 12, 2005 (date of
inception) through December 31, 2005  

Statement
of cash flows for the period from April 12, 2005 (date of inception) through
December 31, 2005  

Notes
to Financial Statements  

2.      Financial
Statement Schedule(s):    

All schedules are omitted for the reason that the
information is included in the financial statements or the notes thereto or
that they are not required or are not applicable.  

33  

3.       Exhibits:    

Exhibit No.   

Description   

3.1  

Amended
  and Restated Certificate of Incorporation**  

3.2  

By-laws*  

4.1  

Specimen
  Unit Certificate*  

4.2  

Specimen
  Common Stock Certificate*  

4.3  

Specimen
  Warrant Certificate*  

4.4  

Warrant
  Agreement between Continental Stock Transfer   Trust Company
  and the Company**  

10.1  

Letter
  Agreement between the Company and Joel R. Jacks**  

10.2  

Letter
  Agreement between the Company and Peter M. Schulte**  

10.3  

Letter
  Agreement between the Company and Dr. Edward H. Bersoff**  

10.4  

Letter
  Agreement between the Company and Arthur L. Money**  

10.5  

Letter
  Agreement between the Company and FSAC Partners, LLC**  

10.6  

Letter
  Agreement between CRT Capital Group LLC and Joel R. Jacks**  

10.7  

Letter
  Agreement between CRT Capital Group LLC and Peter M. Schulte**  

10.8  

Letter
  Agreement between CRT Capital Group LLC and Dr. Edward H. Bersoff**  

10.9  

Letter
  Agreement between CRT Capital Group LLC and Arthur L. Money**  

10.10  

Letter
  Agreement between CRT Capital Group LLC and FSAC Partners, LLC**  

10.11  

Investment
  Management Trust Agreement between Continental Stock Transfer  
  Trust Company and the Company**  

10.14  

Registration
  Rights Agreement among the Company and FSAC Partners, LLC, Joel R. Jacks,
  Peter M. Schulte, Edward H. Bersoff and Arthur L. Money**  

10.15.1  

Warrant
  Purchase Agreement between CRT Capital Group LLC and Joel R. Jacks**  

10.15.2  

Warrant
  Purchase Agreement between CRT Capital Group LLC and Peter M. Schulte**  

10.15.3  

Warrant
  Purchase Agreement between CRT Capital Group LLC and Dr. Edward H.
  Bersoff **  

10.15.4  

Warrant
  Purchase Agreement between CRT Capital Group LLC and FSAC Partners, LLC **  

10.16  

Office
  Service Agreement between the Company and CM Equity Management, L.P.**  

10.17  

Stock
  Escrow Agreement between the Company and Continental Stock
  Transfer   Trust Company**  

14  

Code
  of Ethics is available at Company s website at www.fedsac.com  

31.1  

Certification
  of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15(d)-19(a) of the
  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended**  

31.2  

Certification
  of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15(d)-19(a) of the
  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended**  

32.1  

Certification
  of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
  Act of 2002**  

32.2  

Certification
  of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
  Act of 2002**  

*      Incorporated by reference to exhibits of the same number filed
with our Registration Statement on Form S-1 or amendments thereto (File
No. 333-124638).  

  **   Filed herewith.  

34  

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.  

Federal Services Acquisition Corporation   

By:  

/s/
  Joel R. Jacks       

Chairman of the Board and   

Chief Executive Officer   

(Principal executive officer)   

By:  

/s/
  Peter M. Schulte       

President and   

Chief Financial Officer   

(Principal financial officer)   

Date:
  March 30, 2006  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.  

Name   

Position   

Date   

/s/ JOEL R. JACKS  

Chairman
  of the Board and Chief  
  Executive Officer (Principal Executive   

March
  30, 2006  

Joel R. Jacks  

Officer)  

/s/ PETER M. SCHULTE  

President,
  Chief Financial Officer,  
  Secretary and Director (Principal   

March
  30, 2006  

Peter M. Schulte  

Financial
  Officer)  

/s/ EDWARD H. BERSOFF  

Vice-Chairman    

March
  30, 2006  

Edward H. Bersoff  

/s/ ARTHUR L. MONEY  

Director    

March
  30, 2006  

Arthur L. Money  

35  

INDEX TO
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES   

Federal Services Acquisition Corporation 
  (a development stage
company) 

F-1  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

To
the Board of Directors  

  Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation  

We
have audited the accompanying balance sheet of Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation (a development stage company) as of December 31, 2005, and the
related statements of operations, changes in stockholders  equity and cash
flows for the period from April 12, 2005 (date of inception) through December
31, 2005. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audit.  

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation as of December 31, 2005, and the results of its operations and its
cash flows for the period from April 12, 2005 (date of inception) through
December 31, 2005 in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.  

Eisner
LLP  

  New
York, New York  

March
23, 2006  

F-2  

Federal Services Acquisition Corporation 
  (a development stage
company) 

Balance
Sheet   

   December 31, 2005   

See
notes to financial statements  

F-3  

Statement of Operations   

   For the period from April 12, 2005 (date of
inception) through December 31, 2005   

See
notes to financial statements.  

F-4  

Statement of changes in Stockholders  Equity 
For the period from April 12, 2005 (date of inception) through December 31,
2005   

See
notes to financial statements  

F-5  

Statement of Cash Flows 
For the period from April 12, 2005 (date of inception) through December 31,
2005   

See
notes to financial statements.  

F-6  

Notes to Financial Statements   

   December 31, 2005   

NOTE A ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS   

Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation (the  Company ) was incorporated in Delaware
on April 12, 2005. The Company was formed to serve as a vehicle for the
acquisition of an operating business in the federal services and defense
industries through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock
purchase or other similar business combination. The Company has neither engaged
in any operations nor generated revenue to date. The Company is considered to
be in the development stage and is subject to the risks associated with
activities of development stage companies.  The Company has selected
December 31 as its fiscal year end.  

The
registration statement for the Company s initial public offering ( Offering )
was declared effective on October 19, 2005.  The Company consummated the
offering on October 25, 2005 and received net proceeds of $119,169,000. The
Company s management has broad discretion with respect to the specific
application of the net proceeds of the Offering, although substantially all of
the net proceeds of the Offering are intended to be generally applied toward
consummating a business combination with (or acquisition of) an operating
business in the federal services and defense industries ( Business Combination ).
Nonetheless, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to
successfully effect a Business Combination. As of December 31, 2005, an amount
of $117,990,384 including interest receivable of $39,444 of the net proceeds is
being held in a trust account ( Trust Account ) and is invested in U.S.
government securities, and cash or cash equivalents until the earlier of (i)
the consummation of its first Business Combination or (ii) the distribution of
the Trust Account to the Company s public stockholders. The remaining proceeds
may be used to pay for business, legal and accounting due diligence on
prospective acquisitions and continuing general and administrative expenses.
The Company, after signing a definitive agreement for the acquisition of a
target business, will submit such transaction for stockholder approval. In the
event that public stockholders of 20% or more of the outstanding stock
(excluding, for this purpose, those shares of common stock issued prior to the
Offering) vote against the Business Combination and exercise their conversion
rights, the Business Combination will not be consummated.  

In
the event that the Company does not consummate a Business Combination within
18 months from the date of the consummation of the Offering, or
24 months from the consummation of the Offering if certain extension
criteria have been satisfied (the  Acquisition Period ), the proceeds held in
the Trust Account will be distributed to the Company s public stockholders,
excluding the Founders (defined in the following sentence) to the extent of
their stock acquired prior to the Offering. However, the persons who were
stockholders prior to the Offering (the  Founders ) will participate in any
liquidation distribution with respect to any shares of the common stock
acquired in connection with or following the Offering. In the event of such
distribution, it is likely that the per share value of the residual assets
remaining available for distribution (including Trust Account assets) will be
less than the initial public offering price per unit in the Offering (assuming
no value is attributed to the Warrants contained in the Units offered in the
Offering as discussed in Note C).  

Public
stockholders owning less than 20% of the shares sold in the Offering who vote
against a business combination and exercise their conversion rights will be
entitled to convert their stock into a pro rata share of the Trust Account,
including any interest earned on their portion of the Trust Account (net of
taxes payable), if the business combination is approved and consummated.  The Founders cannot convert their stock into
a pro rata share of the Trust Account under these circumstances, because they
have agreed to vote their stock in accordance with the majority of the shares
of common stock voted by the public stockholders.  Public stockholders who convert their stock
will retain any warrants they hold.  

The
Founders will be entitled to registration rights pursuant to an agreement
signed as a part of the Offering.  The
holders of the majority of these shares are entitled to make up to two demands
that the Company register these shares. 
The holders of the majority of these shares can elect to exercise these
registration rights at any time after the date on which their shares of common
stock are released from escrow (see below). 
In addition, these stockholders have certain  piggy-back  registration
rights on registration statements filed subsequent to such date.  The Company will bear the expenses incurred
in connection with the filing of any such registration statement.  

Upon
consummation of the Offering the Founders have placed the shares they owned
into an escrow account.  These shares
will not be transferable during the escrow period and will not be released from
escrow until the earliest of:  

three years following the date of the
Offering, 

               liquidation; or 

               the consummation of a liquidation, merger,
stock exchange or other similar transaction which results in all of the
stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of common stock for
cash, securities or other property subsequent to the Company consummating a
business combination with a target business. 

During the escrow period, the holders of
these shares will not be able to sell or transfer their securities except to
their spouses and children or trusts established for their benefit, but will
retain all other rights as stockholders, including, without limitation, the
right to vote their shares of common stock and the right to receive cash dividends,
if declared.  If dividends are declared
and payable in shares of common stock, such dividends will also be placed in
escrow.  If the Company is unable to
effect a business combination and liquidates, none of the Founders will receive
any portion of the liquidation proceeds with respect to common stock owned by
them.  

F-7  

NOTE B SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES   

[1]    Cash and cash equivalents:   

  The
Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of
three months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company had cash deposits in
excess of the federally insured limits at December 31, 2005.  

[2]   Earnings per common share:   

  Basic
income per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the period. Diluted income per share reflects the potential
dilution assuming common shares were issued upon the exercise of outstanding
in-the-money warrants and the proceeds thereof were used to purchase treasury
shares at the average market price during the period.  

[3]    Use of estimates:   

  The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts in the financial statements
and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.  

[4]    Fair value of financial
instruments:   

  The carrying amounts of the Company s
financial assets, including cash and cash equivalents and short term
investments, approximate fair value because of their short term maturities.  

[5]    Income taxes:   

  Deferred
income taxes are provided for the differences between the bases of assets and
liabilities for financial reporting and income tax purposes. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates in effect for the year in
which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. A
valuation allowance is established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets
to the amount expected to be realized.  

NOTE C INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING   

On
October 25, 2005 the Company sold 21,000,000 Units ( Units ).  Each Unit
consisted of one share of the Company s common stock, $.0001 par value, and two
warrants ( Warrants ). Each Warrant entitles the holder to purchase from the
Company one share of common stock at an exercise price of $5.00.  Each
Warrant is exercisable on the later of (a) the completion of a Business
Combination or (b) October 19, 2006 and expires October 19, 2009, or earlier
upon redemption.  The Warrants are redeemable at a price of $.01 per
Warrant upon 30 days notice after the Warrants become exercisable, only in
the event that the last sale price of the common stock is at least $8.50 per
share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending on the
third day prior to the date on which notice of redemption is given.  

In
connection with the Offering, the Company paid CRT Capital Group LLC an
underwriter s discount of 5% of the gross proceeds of the Offering.  

NOTE D INVESTMENTS HELD IN TRUST   

The management of the Company intends to hold
till maturity the investments held in the Trust Account which consists
principally of short-term Treasury Bills. 
These bills are purchased at a discount and the Company accretes the
difference between the purchase price and the market price which is considered
as interest income.  

F-8  

NOTE E INCOME TAXES   

The
provision for income taxes for the period ending December 31, 2005 consists of
the following:  

Provisions have been made for deferred taxes
based on differences between the financial statements and the tax basis of
assets and liabilities using currently enacted rates and regulations.  

Deferred
tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2005 consist of the following:  

The Company has recorded a deferred tax
asset.  Realization is dependent on
acquiring an operating company and the ability to use the deferred tax expenses
to offset operating income.  Although
realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that
all of the deferred tax will be realized through future taxable income.  

The
provision for income taxes differs from the amount computed using the federal
statutory rate of 34% as a result of the following:  

Period
from April 12, 2005 (inception) to December 31, 2005  

NOTE F NOTES PAYABLE TO STOCKHOLDERS   

The
Company issued two $77,000 non-interest bearing unsecured promissory notes to
two of the Founders of the Company on April 18, 2005.   The
notes where repaid in the accordance with their terms on October 25, 2005 from
the proceeds of the Offering.  

F-9  

NOTE G RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION   

The
Company has agreed to pay CM Equity Management, L.P., a company where certain
of the Founders serve in executive capacities, an administrative fee of $7,500
per month for office space and general and administrative services from October
19, 2005 through the effective date of the acquisition of a target business. For
the period from inception to December 31, 2005, the amount paid to this entity
was $18,145.  

Two
of the Founders have agreed with the Company and the underwriters that if the
Company liquidates prior to the consummation of a Business Combination, they
may be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds of the trust account are
not reduced by the claims of vendors or others entities that are owed money by
the Company for services rendered or products sold to the Company or the claims
of prospective target businesses.  

NOTE H COMMITMENTS   

The
Company has a commitment to pay to CRT Capital Group LLC a 2% fee of the gross
offering proceeds, or $2,520,000, payable upon the Company s consummation of a
Business Combination.  

The
Company has engaged CRT Capital Group LLC, the underwriter, on a non-exclusive
basis, as their agent for the solicitation of the exercise of the warrants. The
Company has agreed to pay CRT Capital Group LLC a commission equal to 2% of the
exercise price for each warrant exercised more than one year from October 19,
2005 if the exercise was solicited by CRT Capital Group LLC.  

NOTE I COMMON STOCK RESERVED FOR ISSUANCE   

At
December 31, 2005, 42,000,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance
upon exercise of redeemable warrants.  

NOTE J FOUNDERS   

One
or more of the Founders agreed with the Company that during the 40 trading day
period beginning 60 days after the end of the  restricted period  under
Regulation M, they collectively would spend up to $2,000,000 to purchase
warrants in the public marketplace at prices not to exceed $.65 per warrant.
They have further agreed that any warrants purchased by them or their
affiliates or designees would not be sold or transferred until the completion
of a Business Combination. Subsequent to December 31, 2005, 3,699,528 warrants
have been purchased by the Founders.  

F-10  

<EX-3.1>
 2
 a06-7939_1ex3d1.htm
 (I) ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION; (II) BYLAWS

Exhibit 3.1   

AMENDED AND
RESTATED   

   CERTIFICATE
OF INCORPORATION   

   OF   

   FEDERAL
SERVICES ACQUISITION CORPORATION   

FEDERAL SERVICES ACQUISITION CORPORATION, a
corporation existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ),
by its Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, hereby
certifies as follows:  

1.                  The name of the Corporation is  Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation.  

2.                  The Corporation s original Certificate of
Incorporation was filed in the office of the Secretary of State of Delaware on
April 12, 2005 and a Certificate of Correction was filed in the office of
the Secretary of Delaware on April 19, 2005. 

3.                  This Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation restates, integrates and amends the original Certificate of
Incorporation. 

4.                  This Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation was duly adopted by written consent of the directors and
stockholders of the Corporation in accordance with the applicable provisions of
Sections 242 and 245 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. 

5.                    The text of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is
hereby amended and restated to read in full as follows: 

FIRST  :  Name . The name of this corporation
is FEDERAL SERVICES ACQUISITION CORPORATION (the  Corporation ). 

SECOND  :  Registered Office and Agent . The
address of the Corporation s registered office in the State of Delaware is to
be located at 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, in the City of Wilmington,
County of New Castle, State of Delaware 19808. The name of its registered agent
at such address is Corporation Service Company. 

THIRD  :  Purpose . The purpose of the
Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations
may be organized under the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended from
time to time (the  DGCL ). 

FOURTH  : Capital Stock. 

Section 4.1.  Authorized Shares . The
total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to
issue is one hundred and one million (101,000,000), one hundred million
(100,000,000) of which shall be shares of Common Stock with a par value of     $.0001 per share and one million
(1,000,000) of which shall be shares of Preferred Stock with a par value of
$.0001 per share.  

Section 4.2.  Common Stock . Except as
otherwise required by law or as otherwise provided in the terms of any class or
series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or
upon liquidation, the holders of the Common Stock shall exclusively possess all
voting power, and each share of Common Stock shall have one vote.  

1  

Section 4.3.  Preferred Stock . The
Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series. 
The Board of Directors is hereby expressly authorized to provide for the issue of
all or any of the remaining shares of the Preferred Stock in one or more
series, and to fix the number of shares and to determine or alter for each such
series, such voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and such
designation, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, or other
rights and such qualifications, limitations, or restrictions thereof, as shall
be stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board
of Directors providing for the issuance of such shares and as may be permitted
by the DGCL.  The Board of Directors is expressly authorized to increase
or decrease the number of shares of any series of Preferred Stock subsequent to
the issuance of shares of that series, but not below the number of shares of
such series then outstanding and not above the number of authorized shares of
Preferred Stock.  In case the number of shares of any series of Preferred
Stock shall be decreased in accordance with the foregoing sentence, the shares
constituting such decrease shall resume the status that they had prior to the
adoption of the resolution originally fixing the number of shares of such
series.  In all cases, the foregoing provisions of this section 4.3
shall be subject to any other applicable provisions contained herein.  

FIFTH  :  Provisions Applicable Until Business Combination or Termination
Date . The following provisions of this Article Fifth shall apply
during the period commencing upon the filing of this Certificate of
Incorporation and terminating upon the first to occur of (a) the
consummation of any  Business Combination  or (b) the  Termination Date 
(as such terms are hereinafter defined), and may not be amended prior thereto.
A  Business Combination  shall mean the acquisition by the Corporation, whether
by merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other
similar type of transaction or a combination of any of the foregoing, of a
company operating in the federal services and defense industries having a fair
market value (as calculated in accordance with the requirements set forth
below) of at least 80% of the Corporation s net assets at the time of such
acquisition. 

For purposes of this Article Fifth, the fair
market value of an acquisition proposed for a Business Combination shall be
determined by the Board of Directors based upon financial standards generally
accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales,
earnings and cash flow and book value.  If the Board of Directors of the
Corporation is not able to independently determine the fair market value of the
target business, the Corporation shall obtain an opinion with regard to such
fair market value from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm
that is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
(an  Independent Financial Advisor ).  The Corporation will not consummate
an initial Business Combination with any entity that is affiliated with one or
more of the Corporation s stockholders of record as of the date which is immediately
prior to the IPO.  

Section 5.1.  Shareholder Approval of
Business Combination . Prior to the consummation of the initial Business
Combination, the Corporation shall submit such Business Combination to its
stockholders for approval regardless of whether the Business Combination is of
a type which normally would require such stockholder approval under the DGCL.
In the event that the holders of a majority of the IPO Shares (as such term is
defined below) cast at the meeting to approve the Business Combination are
voted for the approval of such Business Combination, the Corporation shall be
authorized to consummate the Business Combination;  provided  that the
Corporation shall not consummate any Business Combination if 20% or more in
interest of the holders of IPO Shares exercise their conversion rights
described in Section 5.2 below.  

Section 5.2.  Right to Convert to Cash
Following Negative Vote on Business Combination . Any stockholder of the
Corporation holding shares of Common Stock ( IPO Shares ) issued in the
Corporation s initial public offering ( IPO ) of securities who voted against
the Business Combination may, contemporaneous with such vote, demand that the
Corporation convert his IPO Shares into cash. If so demanded, in the event that
a Business Combination is approved in accordance with Section 5.1 and is
consummated by the Corporation, the Corporation shall convert such shares at a
per share conversion price equal to the quotient determined by dividing
(a) the amount in the Trust Fund (as defined below), inclusive of any
interest thereon, calculated as of two (2) business days prior to the
proposed consummation of the Business Combination, by (b) the total number
of IPO Shares.  Trust Fund  shall mean the trust account established by the
Corporation at the consummation of its IPO and into which a certain amount of
the net proceeds of the IPO are deposited. A  business day  for these purposes
means any weekday on which banking or trust institutions in New York are
not authorized generally or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to
close.  

2  

Section 5.3.  Liquidation and Dissolution in
Absence of Business Combination . In the event that the Corporation does not
consummate a Business Combination by the later of (a) 18 months after the
consummation of the IPO or (b) 24 months after the consummation of the IPO
in the event that any of a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a
definitive agreement to complete a Business Combination was executed but was
not consummated within such 18-month period (such later date being referred to
as the  Termination Date ), the officers of the Corporation shall take all such
action as may be necessary to dissolve and liquidate the Corporation as soon as
reasonably practicable. In the event that the Corporation is so dissolved and
liquidated, only the holders of IPO Shares shall be entitled to receive
liquidating distributions and the Corporation shall pay no liquidating
distributions with respect to any other shares of capital stock of the
Corporation.  

Section 5.4.  Limitation on Right to
Distributions from Trust Fund . The holders of IPO Shares shall be entitled
to receive distributions from the Trust Fund only (i) in the event of a
liquidation of the Corporation or (ii) in the event they demand conversion of
their shares in accordance with Section 5.2 above and a Business
Combination is approved in accordance with Section 5.1. In no other
circumstances shall a holder of IPO Shares have any right or interest of any
kind in or to the Trust Fund.  

Section 5.5   No Other Business
Acquisitions .  Unless and until the Corporation has consummated a
Business Combination pursuant to this Article Fifth, the Corporation may
not consummate any other business combination, whether by merger, acquisition,
asset purchase or otherwise.  

SIXTH:    Elimination of Certain Liability of
Directors . No director shall be personally liable to the Corporation or its
stockholders for monetary damages for breach of a fiduciary duty as a director;
provided, however, that to the extent required by the provisions of
Section 102(b)(7) of the DGCL or any successor statute, or any other
laws of the State of Delaware, this provision shall not eliminate or limit the
liability of a director (i) for any breach of the director s duty of
loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions
not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing
violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the DGCL, (iv) for
any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit,
or (v) for any act or omission occurring prior to the date when this
Article Sixth becomes effective.  If the DGCL hereafter is amended to
authorize the further elimination or limitation of the liability of directors,
then the liability of a director of the Corporation, in addition to the
limitation on personal liability provided herein, shall be limited to the
fullest extent permitted by the amended DGCL.  Any repeal or modification
of this Article Sixth by the stockholders of the Corporation shall be
prospective only, and shall not adversely affect any limitation on the personal
liability of a director of the Corporation existing as of the time of such
repeal or modification 

SEVENTH:   Indemnification. 

Section 7.1.  Right to Indemnification .
Each person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is
involved in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, proceeding or
alternative dispute resolution procedure, whether (a) civil, criminal,
administrative, investigative or otherwise, (b) formal or informal or
(c) to the extent permitted by Section 145(b) of the DGCL, by or
in the right of the Corporation (collectively, a  proceeding ), by reason of
the fact that he or she, or a person of whom he or she is the legal
representative, is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the
Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a
director, manager, officer, partner, trustee, employee or agent of another
foreign or domestic corporation or of a foreign or domestic limited liability
company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including
service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such
proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as such a director,
officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or in any other capacity while
serving as such other director, manager, officer, partner, trustee, employee or
agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation against all
judgments, penalties and fines incurred or paid, and against all expenses
(including attorneys  fees) and settlement amounts actually and reasonably
incurred or paid, in connection with any such  

3  

proceeding,
except in relation to matters as to which the person did not act in good faith
and in a manner the person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the
best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or
proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe the person s conduct was
unlawful. Until such time as there has been a final judgment to the contrary, a
person shall be presumed to be entitled to be indemnified under this
Section 7.1. The termination of any proceeding by judgment, order,
settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent,
shall not, of itself, either rebut such presumption or create a presumption
that (a) the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which the
person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the
Corporation, (b) with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, the
person had reasonable cause to believe that the person s conduct was unlawful
or (c) the person was not successful on the merits or otherwise in defense
of the proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter therein. If the DGCL is
hereafter amended to provide for indemnification rights broader than those
provided by this Section 7.1, then the persons referred to in this
Section 7.1 shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to
the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL as so amended (but, in the case of any
such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation
to provide broader indemnification rights than permitted prior to such
amendment).  

Section 7.2.  Determination of Entitlement to
Indemnification . A determination as to whether a person who is a director
or officer of the Corporation at the time of the determination is entitled to
be indemnified and held harmless under Section 7.1 shall be made
(a) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to such
proceeding, even though less than a quorum, (b) by a committee of such
directors designated by majority vote of such directors, even though less than
a quorum, (c) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so
direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (d) by the
stockholders. A determination as to whether a person who is not a director or
officer of the Corporation at the time of the determination is entitled to be
indemnified and held harmless under Section 7.1 shall be made by or as
directed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  

Section 7.3.  Mandatory Advancement of Expenses .
The right to indemnification conferred in this Article Seventh shall
include the right to require the Corporation to pay the expenses (including
attorneys  fees) actually and reasonably incurred in defending any such
proceeding in advance of its final disposition;  provided ,  however ,
that an advancement of expenses incurred by an indemnitee in his or her
capacity as a director or officer of the Corporation (but not in any other
capacity in which service was or is rendered by such indemnitee, including,
without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) shall be made only
upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such
indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall be finally determined
that such indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under
Section 7.1 or otherwise.  

Section 7.4.  Non-Exclusivity of Rights .
The right to indemnification and the advancement of expenses conferred in this
Article Seventh shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person
may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, any provision of this
Certificate of Incorporation or of any bylaw, agreement, or insurance policy or
arrangement, or any vote of stockholders or disinterested directors, or
otherwise. The Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt and enter
into indemnification agreements with, and obtain insurance for, directors and
officers.  

Section 7.5.  Effect of Amendment .
Neither any amendment, repeal, or modification of this Article Seventh,
nor the adoption or amendment of any other provision of this Certificate of
Incorporation or the bylaws of the Corporation inconsistent with this
Article Seventh, shall adversely affect any right or protection provided
hereby with respect to any act or omission occurring prior to the date when
such amendment, repeal, modification, or adoption became effective.  

EIGHTH:    Stockholder Action . From and
subsequent to the effective date of the IPO and subject to the rights of the
holders of any series of Preferred Stock, any action required or permitted to
be taken by stockholders pursuant to this Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation or under applicable law may be effected only at a duly called
annual or special meeting of stockholders and with a vote thereat, and may not
be effected by consent in writing.  Except as otherwise required by law
and subject to the rights of any series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of
the stockholders of the Corporation may be called by the Board of Directors pursuant
to a resolution 

4  

approved
by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the
Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President and shall be
called by the President or the Secretary upon the written request of the
holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Common Stock of the
Corporation.  

NINTH:    Miscellaneous . The following
provisions are inserted for the management of the business and for the conduct of
the affairs of the Corporation and for the purpose of creating, defining,
limiting and regulating powers of the Corporation and its directors and
stockholders: 

Section 9.1  Classification, Election and
Term of Office of Directors . The Board of Directors shall consist of
such number of directors as is determined from time to time by resolution
adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors;
provided, however, that in no event shall the number of directors be less than
one nor more than fifteen.  The directors shall be divided into three
classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III.  Each
class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total
number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors. The Board of
Directors shall designate the initial class of each director currently serving.
At the first annual meeting of stockholders following the initial
classification of the Board of Directors, the term of office of the initial
Class I directors shall expire and successors to the initial Class I
directors shall be elected for a three-year term.  At the second annual
meeting of stockholders following such initial classification, the term of
office of the initial Class II directors shall expire and successors to
the initial Class II directors shall be elected for a three-year
term.  At the third annual meeting of stockholders following such initial
classification, the term of office of the initial Class III directors
shall expire and successors to the initial Class III directors shall be
elected for a three-year term.  At each succeeding annual meeting of
shareholders beginning in 2006, successors to the class of directors whose term
expires at that annual meeting shall be elected for a three-year term. If the
number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned
among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as
nearly equal as possible, and any additional director of any class elected to
fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a
term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class, but in no case
will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent
director. A director shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in
which his or her term expires and until his or her successor shall be elected
and shall qualify. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors for any reason, and
any directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors of the
Board of Directors, may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then
in office, although less than a quorum, and any directors so chosen shall hold
office until the next election of the class for which such directors shall have
been chosen and until their successors shall be elected and qualified.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more classes
or series of stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting
separately by class or series, to elect directors at an annual or special
meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and
other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of this
Certificate of Incorporation applicable thereto, such directors so elected
shall not be divided into classes pursuant to this Article Ninth,
Section 9.1, and the number of such directors shall not be counted in
determining the maximum number of directors permitted under the foregoing
provision of this Article Eighth, Section 9.1, in each case unless
expressly provided by such terms.  

Section 9.2  Manner of Election of Directors .
Elections of directors need not be by written ballot unless the bylaws of the
Corporation shall so provide.  

Section 9.3
 Severability . In the event any provision (or portion thereof) of this
Certificate of Incorporation shall be found to be invalid, prohibited, or
unenforceable for any reason, the remaining provisions (or portions thereof) of
this Certificate of Incorporation shall be deemed to remain in full force and
effect, and shall be construed as if such invalid, prohibited, or unenforceable
provision had been stricken herefrom or otherwise rendered inapplicable, it
being the intent of the Corporation and its stockholders that each such
remaining provision (or portion thereof) of this Certificate of Incorporation
remain, to the fullest extent permitted by law, applicable and enforceable as
to all stockholders, notwithstanding any such finding.  

5  

Section 9.4  Reservation of Right to Amend
Certificate of Incorporation . The Corporation reserves the right to amend,
alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of
Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute or herein,
and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this
reservation.  

6  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be signed by Joel R.
Jacks, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, as of
the 20 th  day of October 2005.  

/s/
  JOEL R. JACKS  

By:
  Joel R. Jacks  

Title:
  Chairman of the Board of Directors and  

Chief
  Executive Officer  

7  

</EX-3.1>

<EX-4.4>
 3
 a06-7939_1ex4d4.htm
 INSTRUMENTS DEFINING THE RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS, INCLUDING INDENTURES

Exhibit 4.4   

WARRANT
AGREEMENT   

Agreement
made as of October 19, 2005 between Federal Services Acquisition Corporation, a
Delaware corporation, with offices at 900 Third Avenue, 33 rd  Floor,
New York, New York 10022 ( Company ), and Continental Stock Transfer  
Trust Company, a New York corporation, with offices at 17 Battery Place, New
York, New York 10004 ( Warrant Agent ).  

WHEREAS,
the Company is engaged in a public offering ( Public Offering ) of Units ( Units )
and, in connection therewith, has determined to issue and deliver up to 48,300,000
Warrants ( Warrants ) to the public investors, each Warrant evidencing the
right of the holder thereof to purchase one share of common stock, par value
$.0001 per share, of the Company s Common Stock ( Common Stock ) for $5.00,
subject to adjustment as described herein; and  

WHEREAS,
the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a
Registration Statement, No. 333-124638 on Form S-1 ( Registration Statement )
for the registration, under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ( Act ), of,
among other securities, the Warrants and the Common Stock issuable upon
exercise of the Warrants; and  

WHEREAS,
the Company desires the Warrant Agent to act on behalf of the Company, and the
Warrant Agent is willing to so act, in connection with the issuance,
registration, transfer, exchange, redemption and exercise of the Warrants; and  

WHEREAS,
the Company desires to provide for the form and provisions of the Warrants, the
terms upon which they shall be issued and exercised, and the respective rights,
limitation of rights, and immunities of the Company, the Warrant Agent, and the
holders of the Warrants; and  

WHEREAS,
all acts and things have been done and performed which are necessary to make
the Warrants, when executed on behalf of the Company and countersigned by or on
behalf of the Warrant Agent, as provided herein, the valid, binding and legal
obligations of the Company, and to authorize the execution and delivery of this
Agreement.  

NOW,
THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained, the
parties hereto agree as follows:  

1.                 Appointment
of Warrant Agen t. The Company hereby appoints the Warrant Agent to act as
agent for the Company for the Warrants, and the Warrant Agent hereby accepts
such appointment and agrees to perform the same in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement. 

2.                 Warrants . 

2.1.              Form
of Warrant . Each Warrant shall be issued in registered form only, shall be
in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto, the provisions of which are
incorporated herein and shall be signed by, or bear the facsimile signature of,
the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or President and
Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Company and shall 

bear a facsimile of the Company s seal. In the event
the person whose facsimile signature has been placed upon any Warrant shall
have ceased to serve in the capacity in which such person signed the Warrant
before such Warrant is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if he
or she had not ceased to be such at the date of issuance.  

2.2.              Effect
of Countersignature . Unless and until countersigned by the Warrant Agent
pursuant to this Agreement, a Warrant shall be invalid and of no effect and may
not be exercised by the holder thereof. 

2.3.              Registration . 

2.3.1.           Warrant
Register . The Warrant Agent shall maintain books ( Warrant Register ), for
the registration of original issuance and the registration of transfer of the
Warrants. Upon the initial issuance of the Warrants, the Warrant Agent shall
issue and register the Warrants in the names of the respective holders thereof
in such denominations and otherwise in accordance with instructions delivered
to the Warrant Agent by the Company. 

2.3.2.           Registered
Holder . Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of any
Warrant, the Company and the Warrant Agent may deem and treat the person in
whose name such Warrant is registered upon the Warrant Register ( registered
holder ), as the absolute owner of such Warrant and of each Warrant represented
thereby (notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing on the
Warrant Certificate made by anyone other than the Company or the Warrant
Agent), for the purpose of any exercise thereof, and for all other purposes,
and neither the Company nor the Warrant Agent shall be affected by any notice
to the contrary. 

2.4.              Detachability
of Warrants . The securities comprising the Units will not be separately
transferable until the earlier to occur of the expiration of CRT Capital Group
LLC ( CRT ) s option to purchase up to 3,150,000 additional Units to cover
over-allotments or 20 days after the exercise in full or in part by CRT of such
option, but in no event will CRT allow separate trading of the securities comprising
the Units until the Company files a Current Report on Form 8-K which includes
an audited balance sheet reflecting the receipt by the Company of the gross
proceeds of the Public Offering including the proceeds received by the Company
from the exercise of the Underwriter s over-allotment option, if the
over-allotment option is exercised prior to the filing of the Form 8-K. 

3.                 Terms
and Exercise of Warrants  

3.1.              Warrant
Price . Each Warrant shall, when countersigned by the Warrant Agent, entitle
the registered holder thereof, subject to the provisions of such Warrant and of
this Warrant Agreement, to purchase from the Company the number of shares of
Common Stock stated therein, at the price of $5.00 per whole share, subject to
the adjustments provided in Section 4 hereof and in the last sentence of this
Section 3.1. The term  Warrant Price  as used in this Warrant Agreement refers
to the price per share at which Common Stock may be purchased at the time a
Warrant is exercised. The Company in its sole discretion may lower the Warrant
Price at any time prior to the Expiration Date. 

2  

3.2.              Duration
of Warrants . A Warrant may be exercised only during the period ( Exercise
Period ) commencing on the later of the consummation by the Company of a
merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other
similar business combination ( Business Combination ) (as described more fully
in the Company s Registration Statement) or October 19, 2006 and terminating at
5:00 p.m., New York City time on the earlier to occur of (i) October 19, 2009
or (ii) the date fixed for redemption of the Warrants as provided in Section 6
of this Agreement ( Expiration Date ). Except with respect to the right to
receive the Redemption Price (as set forth in Section 6 hereunder), each
Warrant not exercised on or before the Expiration Date shall become void, and
all rights thereunder and all rights in respect thereof under this Agreement
shall cease at the close of business on the Expiration Date. The Company in its
sole discretion may extend the duration of the Warrants by delaying the
Expiration Date. 

3.3.              Exercise
of Warrants . 

3.3.1.           Payment .
Subject to the provisions of the Warrant and this Warrant Agreement, a Warrant,
when countersigned by the Warrant Agent, may be exercised by the registered
holder thereof by surrendering it, at the office of the Warrant Agent, or at
the office of its successor as Warrant Agent, in the Borough of Manhattan, City
and State of New York, with the subscription form, as set forth in the Warrant,
duly executed, and by paying in full, in lawful money of the United States, in
cash, good certified check or good bank draft payable to the order of the
Company (or as otherwise agreed to by the Company), the Warrant Price for each
full share of Common Stock as to which the Warrant is exercised and any and all
applicable taxes due in connection with the exercise of the Warrant, the
exchange of the Warrant for the Common Stock, and the issuance of the Common
Stock. 

3.3.2.           Issuance
of Certificates . As soon as practicable after the exercise of any Warrant
and the clearance of the funds in payment of the Warrant Price, the Company
shall issue to the registered holder of such Warrant a certificate or certificates
for the number of full shares of Common Stock to which he is entitled,
registered in such name or names as may be directed by him, her or it, and if
such Warrant shall not have been exercised in full, a new countersigned Warrant
for the number of shares as to which such Warrant shall not have been exercised.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to deliver
any securities pursuant to the exercise of a Warrant unless a registration
statement under the Act with respect to the Common Stock is effective. Warrants
may not be exercised by, or securities issued to, any registered holder in any
state in which such exercise would be unlawful. 

3.3.3.           Valid
Issuance . All shares of Common Stock issued upon the proper exercise of a
Warrant in conformity with this Agreement shall be validly issued, fully paid
and nonassessable. 

3.3.4.           Date
of Issuance . Each person in whose name any such certificate for shares of
Common Stock is issued shall for all purposes be deemed to have become the
holder of record of such shares on the date on which the Warrant was
surrendered and payment of the Warrant Price was made, irrespective of the date
of delivery of such certificate, except that, if the date of such surrender and
payment is a date when the stock transfer books of the Company are 

3  

closed, such person shall be deemed to have become the
holder of such shares at the close of business on the next succeeding date on
which the stock transfer books are open.  

3.3.5.           Warrant
Solicitation and Warrant Solicitation Fee . 

a.                The
Company has engaged CRT, on a non-exclusive basis, as its agent for the
solicitation of the exercise of the Warrants. The Company, at its cost, will
(i) assist CRT with respect to such solicitation, if requested by CRT, and (ii)
provide CRT, and direct the Company s transfer agent and the Warrant Agent to
deliver to CRT, lists of the record and, to the extent known, beneficial owners
of the Company s Warrants. The Company hereby instructs the Warrant Agent to
cooperate with CRT in every respect in connection with CRT s solicitation
activities, including, but not limited to, providing to CRT, at the Company s
cost, a list of record and beneficial holders of the Warrants and circulating a
prospectus or offering circular disclosing the compensation arrangements
referenced in Section 3.3.5(b) below to holders of the Warrants at the time of
exercise of the Warrants. In addition to the conditions set forth in Section
3.3.5(b), CRT shall accept payment of the warrant solicitation fee provided in
Section 3.3.5(b) only if it has provided bona fide services to the Company in
connection with the exercise of the Warrants and only to the extent that an
investor who exercises his Warrants specifically designates, in writing, that CRT
solicited his exercise. In addition to soliciting, either orally or in writing,
the exercise of Warrants by a Warrant holder, such services may also include
disseminating information, either orally or in writing, to Warrant holders
about the Company or the market for the Company s securities, or assisting in
the processing of the exercise of Warrants. 

b.                In
each instance in which a Warrant is exercised, the Warrant Agent shall promptly
give written notice of such exercise to the Company and CRT ( Warrant Agent s
Exercise Notice ). If, upon the exercise of any Warrant more than one year from
the effective date of the Registration Statement, (i) the market price of the
Company s Common Stock is greater than the Warrant Price, (ii) disclosure of
compensation arrangements between the Company and CRT with respect to the
solicitation of the exercise of the Warrants was made both at the time of the
Public Offering and at the time of exercise (by delivery of the Prospectus or
as otherwise required by applicable law, rule or regulation), (iii) the holder
of the Warrant confirms in writing that the exercise of the Warrant was
solicited by CRT, (iv) the Warrant was not held in a discretionary account, and
(v) the solicitation of the exercise of the Warrant was not in violation of
Regulation M (as such rule or any successor rule may be in effect as of such
time of exercise) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, then the Warrant Agent, simultaneously with the distribution of the
Common Stock underlying the Warrants so exercised in accordance with the
instructions from the Company following receipt of the proceeds to the Company
received upon exercise of such Warrant(s), shall, on behalf of the Company, pay
a fee of 2% of the Warrant Price to CRT, provided that CRT delivers to the
Warrant Agent within ten (10) business days from the date on which CRT has
received the Warrant Agent s Exercise Notice, a certificate that the conditions
set forth in the preceding clauses (iii), (iv) and (v) have been satisfied. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, no fee will be paid to CRT with respect to the exercise by it or
its affiliates or the Company s officers or directors of Warrants purchased by
it or them and still held by them for its or their own account. CRT and 

4  

the Company may at any time during business hours,
examine the records of the Warrant Agent, including its ledger of original
Warrant certificates returned to the Warrant Agent upon exercise of Warrants.  

c.                The
provisions of this Section 3.3.5. may not be modified, amended or deleted
without the prior written consent of CRT. 

4.                 Adjustments . 

4.1.              Stock
Dividends - Split-Ups . If, after the date hereof, and subject to the
provisions of Section 4.6 below, the number of outstanding shares of Common
Stock is increased by a stock dividend payable in shares of Common Stock, or by
a split-up of shares of Common Stock, or other similar event, then, on the
effective date of such stock dividend, split-up or similar event, the number of
shares of Common Stock issuable on exercise of each Warrant shall be increased
in proportion to such increase in outstanding shares of Common Stock. 

4.2.              Aggregation
of Shares . If, after the date hereof, and subject to the provisions of
Section 4.6, the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock is decreased by a
consolidation, combination, reverse stock split or reclassification of shares
of Common Stock or other similar event, then, on the effective date of such
consolidation, combination, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar
event, the number of shares of Common Stock issuable on exercise of each
Warrant shall be decreased in proportion to such decrease in outstanding shares
of Common Stock. 

4.3.              Adjustments
in Exercise Price . Whenever the number of shares of Common Stock
purchasable upon the exercise of the Warrants is adjusted, as provided in
Section 4.1 and 4.2 above, the Warrant Price shall be adjusted (to the nearest
cent) by multiplying such Warrant Price immediately prior to such adjustment by
a fraction (x) the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Common
Stock purchasable upon the exercise of the Warrants immediately prior to such
adjustment, and (y) the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of
Common Stock so purchasable immediately thereafter. 

4.4.              Replacement
of Securities upon Reorganization, etc . In case of any reclassification or
reorganization of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (other than a change
covered by Section 4.1 or 4.2 hereof or that solely affects the par value of
such shares of Common Stock), or in the case of any merger or consolidation of
the Company with or into another corporation (other than a consolidation or
merger in which the Company is the continuing corporation and that does not
result in any reclassification or reorganization of the outstanding shares of
Common Stock), or in the case of any sale or conveyance to another corporation
or entity of the assets or other property of the Company as an entirety or
substantially as an entirety in connection with which the Company is dissolved,
the Warrant holders shall thereafter have the right to purchase and receive,
upon the basis and upon the terms and conditions specified in the Warrants and
in lieu of the shares of Common Stock of the Company immediately theretofore
purchasable and receivable upon the exercise of the rights represented thereby,
the kind and amount of shares of stock or other securities or property 

5  

(including cash) receivable upon such
reclassification, reorganization, merger or consolidation, or upon a
dissolution following any such sale or transfer, that the Warrant holder would
have received if such Warrant holder had exercised his, her or its Warrant(s)
immediately prior to such event; and if any reclassification also results in a
change in shares of Common Stock covered by Section 4.1 or 4.2, then such
adjustment shall be made pursuant to Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and this Section
4.4. The provisions of this Section 4.4 shall similarly apply to successive
reclassifications, reorganizations, mergers or consolidations, sales or other
transfers.  

4.5.              Notices
of Changes in Warrant . Upon every adjustment of the Warrant Price or the
number of shares issuable upon exercise of a Warrant, the Company shall give
written notice thereof to the Warrant Agent, which notice shall state the
Warrant Price resulting from such adjustment and the increase or decrease, if any,
in the number of shares purchasable at such price upon the exercise of a
Warrant, setting forth in reasonable detail the method of calculation and the
facts upon which such calculation is based. Upon the occurrence of any event
specified in Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 or 4.4, then, in any such event, the
Company shall give written notice to the Warrant holder, at the last address
set forth for such holder in the warrant register, of the record date or the
effective date of the event. Failure to give such notice, or any defect
therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of such event. 

4.6.              No
Fractional Shares . Notwithstanding any provision contained in this Warrant
Agreement to the contrary, the Company shall not issue fractional shares upon
exercise of Warrants. If, by reason of any adjustment made pursuant to this
Section 4, the holder of any Warrant would be entitled, upon the exercise of
such Warrant, to receive a fractional interest in a share, the Company shall,
upon such exercise, round up to the nearest whole number the number of the
shares of Common Stock to be issued to the Warrant holder. 

4.7.              Form
of Warrant . The form of Warrant need not be changed because of any
adjustment pursuant to this Section 4, and Warrants issued after such adjustment
may state the same Warrant Price and the same number of shares as is stated in
the Warrants initially issued pursuant to this Agreement. However, the Company
may at any time in its sole discretion make any change in the form of Warrant
that the Company may deem appropriate and that does not affect the substance
thereof, and any Warrant thereafter issued or countersigned, whether in
exchange or substitution for an outstanding Warrant or otherwise, may be in the
form as so changed. 

5.                 Transfer
and Exchange of Warrants . 

5.1.              Registration
of Transfer . The Warrant Agent shall register the transfer, from time to
time, of any outstanding Warrant upon the Warrant Register, upon surrender of
such Warrant for transfer, properly endorsed with signatures properly guaranteed
and accompanied by appropriate instructions for transfer. Upon any such
transfer, a new Warrant representing an equal aggregate number of Warrants
shall be issued and the old Warrant shall be cancelled by the Warrant Agent. The
Warrants so cancelled shall be delivered by the Warrant Agent to the Company
from time to time upon request. 

6  

5.2.              Procedure
for Surrender of Warrants . Warrants may be surrendered to the Warrant
Agent, together with a written request for exchange or transfer, and thereupon
the Warrant Agent shall issue in exchange therefor one or more new Warrants as
requested by the registered holder of the Warrants so surrendered, representing
an equal aggregate number of Warrants; provided, however, that in the event
that a Warrant surrendered for transfer bears a restrictive legend, the Warrant
Agent shall not cancel such Warrant and issue new Warrants in exchange therefor
until the Warrant Agent has received an opinion of counsel for the Company
stating that such transfer may be made and indicating whether the new Warrants
must also bear a restrictive legend. 

5.3.              Fractional
Warrants . The Warrant Agent shall not be required to effect any
registration of transfer or exchange which will result in the issuance of a
warrant certificate for a fraction of a warrant. 

5.4.              Service
Charges . No service charge shall be made for any exchange or registration
of transfer of Warrants. 

5.5.              Warrant
Execution and Countersignature . The Warrant Agent is hereby authorized to
countersign and to deliver, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the
Warrants required to be issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5,
and the Company, whenever required by the Warrant Agent, will supply the Warrant
Agent with Warrants duly executed on behalf of the Company for such purpose. 

6.                 Redemption . 

6.1.              Redemption .
Subject to Section 6.4 hereof, not less than all of the outstanding Warrants
may be redeemed, at the option of the Company, at any time after they become
exercisable and prior to their expiration, at the office of the Warrant Agent,
upon the notice referred to in Section 6.2., at the price of $.01 per Warrant ( Redemption
Price ), provided that the last sales price of the Common Stock has been at
least $8.50 per share, on each of twenty (20) trading days within any thirty
(30) trading day period ending on the third business day prior to the date on
which notice of redemption is given. 

6.2.              Date
Fixed for, and Notice of, Redemption . In the event the Company shall elect
to redeem all of the Warrants, the Company shall fix a date for the redemption.
Notice of redemption shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, by
the Company not less than 30 days prior to the date fixed for redemption to the
registered holders of the Warrants to be redeemed at their last addresses as
they shall appear on the registration books. Any notice mailed in the manner
herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given whether
or not the registered holder received such notice. 

6.3.              Exercise
After Notice of Redemption . The Warrants may be exercised in accordance
with Section 3 of this Agreement at any time after notice of redemption shall
have been given by the Company pursuant to Section 6.2. hereof and prior to the
time and date fixed 

7  

for redemption. On and after the redemption date, the
record holder of the Warrants shall have no further rights except to receive,
upon surrender of the Warrants, the Redemption Price.  

6.4.              Outstanding
Warrants Only . The Company understands that the redemption rights provided
for by this Section 6 apply only to outstanding Warrants. To the extent a
person holds rights to purchase Warrants, such purchase rights shall not be
extinguished by redemption. However, once such purchase rights are exercised,
the Company may redeem the Warrants issued upon such exercise provided that the
criteria for redemption is met. 

7.                 Other
Provisions Relating to Rights of Holders of Warrants . 

7.1.              No
Rights as Stockholder . A Warrant does not entitle the registered holder
thereof to any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company, including,
without limitation, the right to receive dividends, or other distributions,
exercise any preemptive rights to vote or to consent or to receive notice as
stockholders in respect of the meetings of stockholders or the election of
directors of the Company or any other matter. 

7.2.              Lost,
Stolen, Mutilated, or Destroyed Warrants . If any Warrant is lost, stolen,
mutilated, or destroyed, the Company and the Warrant Agent may on such terms as
to indemnity or otherwise as they may in their discretion impose (which shall,
in the case of a mutilated Warrant, include the surrender thereof), issue a new
Warrant of like denomination, tenor, and date as the Warrant so lost, stolen,
mutilated, or destroyed. Any such new Warrant shall constitute a substitute
contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the allegedly lost,
stolen, mutilated, or destroyed Warrant shall be at any time enforceable by
anyone. 

7.3.              Reservation
of Common Stock . The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available
a number of its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock that will be
sufficient to permit the exercise in full of all outstanding Warrants issued
pursuant to this Agreement. 

7.4.              Registration
of Common Stock . The Company agrees that prior to the commencement of the
Exercise Period, it shall file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a
post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement, or a new registration
statement, for the registration, under the Act, of, and it shall take such
action as is necessary to qualify for sale, in those states in which the
Warrants were initially offered by the Company, the Common Stock issuable upon
exercise of the Warrants. In either case, the Company will use its best efforts
to cause the same to become effective and to maintain the effectiveness of such
registration statement until the expiration of the Warrants in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement. The provisions of this Section 7.4 may not be
modified, amended or deleted without the prior written consent of CRT. 

8  

8.                 Concerning
the Warrant Agent and Other Matters . 

8.1.              Payment
of Taxes . The Company will from time to time promptly pay all taxes and
charges that may be imposed upon the Company or the Warrant Agent in respect of
the issuance or delivery of shares of Common Stock upon the exercise of Warrants,
but the Company shall not be obligated to pay any transfer taxes in respect of
the Warrants or such shares. 

8.2.              Resignation,
Consolidation, or Merger of Warrant Agent . 

8.2.1.           Appointment
of Successor Warrant Agent . The Warrant Agent, or any successor to it
hereafter appointed, may resign its duties and be discharged from all further
duties and liabilities hereunder after giving sixty (60) days  notice in
writing to the Company. If the office of the Warrant Agent becomes vacant by
resignation or incapacity to act or otherwise, the Company shall appoint in
writing a successor Warrant Agent in place of the Warrant Agent. If the Company
shall fail to make such appointment within a period of 30 days after it has
been notified in writing of such resignation or incapacity by the Warrant Agent
or by the holder of the Warrant (who shall, with such notice, submit his
Warrant for inspection by the Company), then the holder of any Warrant may
apply to the Supreme Court of the State of New York for the County of New York
for the appointment of a successor Warrant Agent at the Company s cost. Any
successor Warrant Agent, whether appointed by the Company or by such court,
shall be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of
New York, in good standing and having its principal office in the Borough of
Manhattan, City and State of New York, and authorized under such laws to
exercise corporate trust powers and subject to supervision or examination by
federal or state authority. After appointment, any successor Warrant Agent
shall be vested with all the authority, powers, rights, immunities, duties, and
obligations of its predecessor Warrant Agent with like effect as if originally
named as Warrant Agent hereunder, without any further act or deed; but if for
any reason it becomes necessary or appropriate, the predecessor Warrant Agent
shall execute and deliver, at the expense of the Company, an instrument
transferring to such successor Warrant Agent all the authority, powers, and
rights of such predecessor Warrant Agent hereunder; and upon request of any
successor Warrant Agent the Company shall make, execute, acknowledge, and
deliver any and all instruments in writing for more fully and effectually
vesting in and confirming to such successor Warrant Agent all such authority,
powers, rights, immunities, duties, and obligations. 

8.2.2.           Notice
of Successor Warrant Agent . In the event a successor Warrant Agent shall be
appointed, the Company shall give notice thereof to the predecessor Warrant
Agent and the transfer agent for the Common Stock not later than the effective
date of any such appointment. 

8.2.3.           Merger
or Consolidation of Warrant Agent . Any corporation into which the Warrant
Agent may be merged or with which it may be consolidated or any corporation
resulting from any merger or consolidation to which the Warrant Agent shall be
a party shall be the successor Warrant Agent under this Agreement without any
further act. 

9  

8.3.              Fees
and Expenses of Warrant Agent . 

8.3.1.           Remuneration .
The Company agrees to pay the Warrant Agent reasonable remuneration for its
services as such Warrant Agent hereunder and will reimburse the Warrant Agent
upon demand for all expenditures that the Warrant Agent may reasonably incur in
the execution of its duties hereunder. 

8.3.2.           Further
Assurances . The Company agrees to perform, execute, acknowledge, and
deliver or cause to be performed, executed, acknowledged, and delivered all
such further and other acts, instruments, and assurances as may reasonably be
required by the Warrant Agent for the carrying out or performing of the
provisions of this Agreement. 

8.4.              Liability
of Warrant Agent . 

8.4.1.           Reliance
on Company Statement . Whenever in the performance of its duties under this
Warrant Agreement, the Warrant Agent shall deem it necessary or desirable that
any fact or matter be proved or established by the Company prior to taking or
suffering any action hereunder, such fact or matter (unless other evidence in
respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may be deemed to be
conclusively proved and established by a statement signed by the President or
Chairman of the Board of the Company and delivered to the Warrant Agent. The
Warrant Agent may rely upon such statement for any action taken or suffered in
good faith by it pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement. 

8.4.2.           Indemnity .
The Warrant Agent shall be liable hereunder only for its own negligence,
willful misconduct or bad faith. The Company agrees to indemnify the Warrant
Agent and save it harmless against any and all liabilities, including
judgments, costs and reasonable counsel fees, for anything done or omitted by
the Warrant Agent in the execution of this Agreement except as a result of the
Warrant Agent s negligence, willful misconduct, or bad faith. 

8.4.3.           Exclusions .
The Warrant Agent shall have no responsibility with respect to the validity of
this Agreement or with respect to the validity or execution of any Warrant
(except its countersignature thereof); nor shall it be responsible for any
breach by the Company of any covenant or condition contained in this Agreement
or in any Warrant; nor shall it be responsible to make any adjustments required
under the provisions of Section 4 hereof or responsible for the manner, method,
or amount of any such adjustment or the ascertaining of the existence of facts
that would require any such adjustment; nor shall it by any act hereunder be
deemed to make any representation or warranty as to the authorization or reservation
of any shares of Common Stock to be issued pursuant to this Agreement or any
Warrant or as to whether any shares of Common Stock will when issued be valid
and fully paid and nonassessable. 

8.5.              Trust
Fund Waiver . The Warrant Agent has no right, title, interest, or claim of
any kind ( Claim ) in or to any monies in the Trust Account (as defined in that
certain Investment Management Trust Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by
and between the 

10  

Company and Continental Stock Transfer   Trust
Company, as trustee of the Trust Account), and hereby waives any Claim in or to
any monies in the Trust Account it may have in the future, and hereby agrees
not to seek recourse, reimbursement, payment or satisfaction for any Claim
against the Trust Account for any reason whatsoever.  

8.6.              Acceptance
of Agency . The Warrant Agent hereby accepts the agency established by this
Agreement and agrees to perform the same upon the terms and conditions herein
set forth and among other things, shall account promptly to the Company with
respect to Warrants exercised and concurrently account for, and pay to the
Company, all moneys received by the Warrant Agent for the purchase of shares of
the Company s Common Stock through the exercise of Warrants. 

9.                 Miscellaneous
Provisions . 

9.1.              Successors .
All the covenants and provisions of this Agreement by or for the benefit of the
Company or the Warrant Agent shall bind and inure to the benefit of their
respective successors and assigns. 

9.2.              Notices .
Any notice, statement or demand authorized by this Warrant Agreement to be
given or made by the Warrant Agent or by the holder of any Warrant to or on the
Company shall be sufficiently given when so delivered if by hand or overnight
delivery or if sent by certified mail or private courier service within five
days after deposit of such notice, postage prepaid, addressed (until another
address is filed in writing by the Company with the Warrant Agent), as follows: 

Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation 
900 Third Avenue, 33 rd  Floor 
New York, NY  10022 
Attn: Chairman or Secretary  

Any notice, statement or demand authorized by this
Agreement to be given or made by the holder of any Warrant or by the Company to
or on the Warrant Agent shall be sufficiently given when so delivered if by
hand or overnight delivery or if sent by certified mail or private courier
service within five days after deposit of such notice, postage prepaid,
addressed (until another address is filed in writing by the Warrant Agent with
the Company), as follows:  

Continental Stock
Transfer   Trust Company 
17 Battery Place 
New York, New York  10004 
Attn:          Compliance Department 

11  

with a copy in each case to:  

Gusrae, Kaplan   Bruno,
PLLC 
120 Wall Street 
11th Floor 
New York, NY  10005 
Attn:          Scott M. Miller, Esq. 

and  

Dechert LLP 
30 Rockefeller Plaza 
New York, NY  10112 
Attn:  Gerald Adler, Esq.  

9.3.              Applicable
law . The validity, interpretation, and performance of this Agreement and of
the Warrants shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of New
York, without giving effect to conflict of laws. The Company hereby agrees that
any action, proceeding or claim against it arising out of or relating in any
way to this Agreement shall be brought and enforced in the courts of the State
of New York or the United States District Court for the Southern District of
New York, and irrevocably submits to such jurisdiction, which jurisdiction
shall be exclusive. The Company hereby waives any objection to such exclusive
jurisdiction and that such courts represent an inconvenience forum. Any such
process or summons to be served upon the Company may be served by transmitting
a copy thereof by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested,
postage prepaid, addressed to it at the address set forth in Section 9.2 hereof.
Such mailing shall be deemed personal service and shall be legal and binding
upon the Company in any action, proceeding or claim. 

9.4.              Persons
Having Rights under this Agreement . Nothing in this Agreement expressed and
nothing that may be implied from any of the provisions hereof is intended, or
shall be construed, to confer upon, or give to, any person or corporation other
than the parties hereto and the registered holders of the Warrants and, for the
purposes of Sections 3.3.5, 6.1, 6.4, 7.4 and 9.2 hereof, CRT, any right,
remedy, or claim under or by reason of this Warrant Agreement or of any
covenant, condition, stipulation, promise, or agreement hereof. CRT shall be
deemed to be a third-party beneficiary of this Agreement with respect to
Sections 3.3.5, 6.1, 6.4, 7.4 and 9.2 hereof. All covenants, conditions,
stipulations, promises, and agreements contained in this Warrant Agreement
shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the parties hereto (and CRT with
respect to the Sections 3.3.5, 6.1, 6.4, 7.4 and 9.2 hereof) and their
successors and assigns and of the registered holders of the Warrants. 

9.5.              Examination
of the Warrant Agreement . A copy of this Agreement shall be available at
all reasonable times at the office of the Warrant Agent in the Borough of
Manhattan, City and State of New York, for inspection by the registered holder
of any Warrant. The Warrant Agent may require any such holder to submit his
Warrant for inspection by it. 

12  

9.6.              Counterparts .
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such
counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 

9.7.              Effect
of Headings . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and are
not part of this Warrant Agreement and shall not affect the interpretation
thereof. 

IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed by the parties hereto as of the
day and year first above written.  

Attest:  

FEDERAL SERVICES
  ACQUISITION CORPORATION  

By:  

/s/
  JOEL R. JACKS  

Name:  

Joel R. Jacks  

Title:  

Chairman and Chief
  Executive Officer  

Attest:  

CONTINENTAL STOCK
  TRANSFER   TRUST 
  COMPANY  

By:  

/s/
  STEVEN NELSON  

Name:  

Steven Nelson  

Title:  

Chairman  

13  

</EX-4.4>

<EX-10.1>
 4
 a06-7939_1ex10d1.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.1   

October 19, 2005  

Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation  

  900 Third Avenue, 33 rd 
Floor  

  New York, New York  10022  

Re:              Initial
Public Offering  

Gentlemen:  

This
letter is being delivered to you in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement
(the  Underwriting Agreement ) entered into by and between Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and CRT
Capital Group LLC (the  Underwriter ), relating to an underwritten initial
public offering (the  IPO ) of the Company s units (the  Units ), each
comprised of one share of the Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per
share (the  Common Stock ), and two warrants, each of which are exercisable for
one share of Common Stock (each, a  Warrant ). Certain capitalized terms used
herein are defined in paragraph 10 hereof.  

In
order to induce the Company and the Underwriter to enter into the Underwriting
Agreement and to proceed with the IPO, and in recognition of the benefit that
such IPO will confer upon the undersigned as a stockholder of the Company, and
for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which
are hereby acknowledged, the undersigned hereby agrees with the Company as
follows:  

1.                If
the Company solicits approval of its stockholders of a Business Combination,
the undersigned will vote all Insider Shares and IPO Shares owned by him in
accordance with the majority of the votes cast by the Public Stockholders. 

2.                In
the event that the Company fails to consummate a Business Combination within 18
months from the effective date ( Effective Date ) of the registration statement
relating to the IPO or 24 months under the circumstances described in the
prospectus relating to the IPO (the first to occur of such dates, the  Transaction
Failure Date ), the undersigned will take all reasonable actions within his
power to (i) cause the Trust Fund to be liquidated and distributed to the
holders of the IPO Shares as soon as practicable but in no event later than 60
(sixty) calendar days after the Transaction Failure Date and (ii) cause the
Company to dissolve and liquidate as soon as practicable (the earliest date on
which the conditions in clauses (i) and (ii) are both satisfied being the  Liquidation
Date ). The undersigned hereby waives any and all right, title, interest or
claim of any kind in or to any distributions of the Trust Fund as a result of
such distribution with respect to his Insider Shares ( Claim ) and hereby
waives any Claim the undersigned may have in the future as a result of, or
arising out of, any contracts or agreements with the Company and will not seek
recourse against the Trust Fund for any reason whatsoever. The undersigned
hereby agrees that the Company shall be entitled to reimbursement from the
undersigned for any distribution of the Trust Fund received by the undersigned
in respect of such 

person s Insider Shares. The undersigned agrees to
indemnify and hold harmless the Company, jointly and severally with Peter M.
Schulte, against any and all loss, liability, claims, damage and expense
whatsoever (including, but not limited to, any and all legal or other expenses
reasonably incurred in investigating preparing or defending against any
litigation, whether pending or threatened, or any claim whatsoever) which the
Company may become subject as a result of any claim by any vendor or other
person who is owed money by the Company for services rendered or products sold,
or any claim by any target business, but only to the extent necessary to ensure
that such loss, liability, claim, damage or expense does not reduce the amount
in the Trust Fund.  

3.                The
undersigned acknowledges and agrees that the Company will not consummate its
initial Business Combination with any company which is affiliated with one or
more of the Insiders. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in no
event will the Company seek to acquire as an initial Business Combination any
of the portfolio companies in which any private equity funds managed by the
undersigned or Peter M. Schulte have an investment. 

4.                In
order to minimize potential conflicts of interest which may arise from multiple
affiliations, the undersigned will present to the Company for its
consideration, prior to presentation to any other person or company, any
suitable opportunity to acquire a Target Business, until the earlier of the
consummation by the Company of a Business Combination, the distribution of the
Trust Fund or until such time as the undersigned ceases to be an officer,
director and stockholder of the Company, subject to any pre-existing fiduciary
obligations the undersigned might have, including any portfolio company managed
by CMEP. 

5.                Neither
the undersigned, any member of the family of the undersigned, nor any Affiliate
of the undersigned will be entitled to receive and will not accept any
compensation for services rendered to the Company prior to or in connection
with the consummation of the Business Combination,  provided  that
commencing on the effective date of the IPO, CM Equity Management, L.P. ( Related
Party ) shall be allowed to charge the Company $7,500 per month to compensate
it for the Company s use of Related Party s offices, utilities and personnel. The
undersigned shall also be entitled to reimbursement from the Company for his
out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with seeking and consummating a
Business Combination. 

6.                Neither
the undersigned, any member of the family of the undersigned, nor any Affiliate
of the undersigned will be entitled to receive, or accept, a finder s fee or
any other compensation in the event the undersigned, any member of the family
of the undersigned or any Affiliate of the undersigned originates a Business
Combination. 

7.                The
undersigned will escrow his Insider Shares for the three year period commencing
on the Effective Date subject to the terms of a Stock Escrow Agreement which
the Company will enter into with an escrow agent acceptable to the Company. 

8.                The
undersigned agrees to be Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company
until the earlier of the consummation by the Company of a Business Combination
or the Liquidation Date. The undersigned s biographical information furnished
to the Company and the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit A is true and
accurate in all respects, does not omit any material information with respect
to the undersigned s background and contains all of 

2  

the information required to be disclosed pursuant to
Section 401 of Regulation S-K, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933. The
undersigned s questionnaires furnished to the Company and the Underwriter and
attached hereto as Exhibit B are true and accurate in all respects. The
undersigned represents and warrants that:  

(a)              the
undersigned is not subject to or a respondent in any legal action for, any
injunction, cease-and-desist order or order or stipulation to desist or refrain
from any act or practice relating to the offering of securities in any
jurisdiction; 

(b)              the
undersigned has never been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any crime (i)
involving any fraud or (ii) relating to any financial transaction or handling
of funds of another person, or (iii) pertaining to any dealings in any
securities and he is not currently a defendant in any such criminal proceeding;
and 

(c)              the
undersigned has never been suspended or expelled from membership in any
securities or commodities exchange or association or had a securities or
commodities license or registrations denied, suspended or revoked. 

9.                The
undersigned has full right and power, without violating any agreement by which
he is bound (including, without limitation, any non-competition or
non-solicitation agreement with any employer or former employer), to enter into
this letter agreement and to serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Company and
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company. 

10.              As
used herein, (i) a  Business Combination  shall mean an acquisition by merger,
capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or
otherwise, of an operating business in the federal services or defense industry
selected by the Company; (ii)  Insiders  shall mean all officers,
directors and stockholders of the Company immediately prior to the IPO; (iii)  Insider
Shares  shall mean all of the shares of Common Stock of the Company owned by an
Insider prior to the IPO; (iv)  IPO Shares  shall mean the shares of Common
Stock issued in the Company s IPO; (v)  Public Stockholders  shall mean those
persons other than the Insiders that are holders of IPO Shares; (vi)  Target
Business  shall mean any operating business in the federal services and defense
industries which the Company seeks to acquire in a Business Combination; and
(vii)  Trust Fund  shall mean the Trust Account established under that certain
Investment Management Trust Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the
Company and Continental Stock Transfer   Trust Company. 

The
undersigned acknowledges and understands that the Underwriter and the Company
will rely upon the agreements, representations and warranties set forth herein
in proceeding with the IPO. The Company and the undersigned acknowledge that
the Underwriter is an intended third party beneficiary of the provisions of
this letter agreement. In that regard, the Underwriter shall have the right in
its sole discretion, but not the obligation, to enforce the provisions of this
letter agreement. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to render the
Underwriter a representative of, or a fiduciary with respect to, the Company,
its stockholders, or any creditor or vendor of the Company with respect to the
subject matter hereof.  

3  

This
letter agreement shall be binding on the undersigned and such person s
respective successors, heirs, personal representatives and assigns. This letter
agreement shall terminate on the earlier of (i) the Business Combination Date
and (ii) the Liquidation Date; provided that such termination shall not relieve
the undersigned from liability for any breach of this agreement prior to its
termination.  

This
letter agreement shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts
formed and to be performed entirely within the State of New York, without
regard to the conflicts of law provisions thereof to the extent such principles
or rules would require or permit the application of the laws of another
jurisdiction.  

No
term or provision of this letter agreement may be amended, changed, waived,
altered or modified except by written instrument executed and delivered by the
party against whom such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification
is to be enforced.  

/s/ JOEL R. JACKS  

Joel R. Jacks  

Chairman and Chief
  Executive Officer  

Signature  

Accepted and agreed:  

Federal Services
  Acquisition Corporation  

By:   

/s/ PETER M. SCHULTE  

Name: Peter M. Schulte  

Title: President and
  Secretary  

4  

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 5
 a06-7939_1ex10d2.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.2   

October 19, 2005  

Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation  

  900 Third Avenue, 33 rd 
Floor  

  New York, New York  10022  

Re:              Initial
Public Offering  

Gentlemen:  

This
letter is being delivered to you in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement
(the  Underwriting Agreement ) entered into by and between Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and CRT
Capital Group LLC (the  Underwriter ), relating to an underwritten initial
public offering (the  IPO ) of the Company s units (the  Units ), each
comprised of one share of the Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per
share (the  Common Stock ), and two warrants, each of which are exercisable for
one share of Common Stock (each, a  Warrant ). Certain capitalized terms used
herein are defined in paragraph 10 hereof.  

In
order to induce the Company and the Underwriter to enter into the Underwriting
Agreement and to proceed with the IPO, and in recognition of the benefit that
such IPO will confer upon the undersigned as a stockholder of the Company, and
for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which
are hereby acknowledged, the undersigned hereby agrees with the Company as
follows:  

1.                If
the Company solicits approval of its stockholders of a Business Combination,
the undersigned will vote all Insider Shares and IPO Shares owned by him in
accordance with the majority of the votes cast by the holders of the Public
Stockholders. 

2.                In
the event that the Company fails to consummate a Business Combination within 18
months from the effective date ( Effective Date ) of the registration statement
relating to the IPO or 24 months under the circumstances described in the
prospectus relating to the IPO (the first to occur of such dates, the  Transaction
Failure Date ), the undersigned will take all reasonable actions within his
power to cause (i) the Trust Fund to be liquidated and distributed to the
holders of the IPO Shares as soon as practicable but in no event later than 60
(sixty) calendar days after the Transaction Failure Date and (ii) cause the
Company to dissolve and liquidate as soon as practicable (the earliest date on
which the conditions in clauses (i) and (ii) are both satisfied being the  Liquidation
Date ). The undersigned hereby waives any and all right, title, interest or
claim of any kind in or to any distributions of the Trust Fund as a result of
such distribution with respect to his Insider Shares ( Claim ) and hereby
waives any Claim the undersigned may have in the future as a result of, or
arising out of, any contracts or agreements with the Company and will not seek
recourse against the Trust Fund for any reason whatsoever. The undersigned
hereby agrees that the Company shall be entitled to reimbursement from the
undersigned for any distribution of the Trust Fund received by the undersigned
in respect of such 

person s Insider Shares. The undersigned agrees to
indemnify and hold harmless the Company, jointly and severally with Joel R.
Jacks, against any and all loss, liability, claims, damage and expense
whatsoever (including, but not limited to, any and all legal or other expenses
reasonably incurred in investigating preparing or defending against any
litigation, whether pending or threatened, or any claim whatsoever) which the
Company may become subject as a result of any claim by any vendor or other
person who is owed money by the Company for services rendered or products sold,
or any claim by any target business, but only to the extent necessary to ensure
that such loss, liability, claim, damage or expense does not reduce the amount
in the Trust Fund.  

3.                The
undersigned acknowledges and agrees that the Company will not consummate its
initial Business Combination with any company which is affiliated with one or
more of the Insiders. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in no
event will the Company seek to acquire as its initial Business Combination any
of the portfolio companies in which any private equity funds managed by the
undersigned or Joel R. Jacks have an investment. 

4.                In
order to minimize potential conflicts of interest which may arise from multiple
affiliations, the undersigned will present to the Company for its
consideration, prior to presentation to any other person or company, any
suitable opportunity to acquire a Target Business, until the earlier of the
consummation by the Company of a Business Combination, the distribution of the
Trust Fund or until such time as the undersigned ceases to be an officer,
director and stockholder of the Company, subject to any pre-existing fiduciary
obligations the undersigned might have, including any portfolio company managed
by CMEP. 

5.                Neither
the undersigned, any member of the family of the undersigned, nor any Affiliate
of the undersigned will be entitled to receive and will not accept any
compensation for services rendered to the Company prior to or in connection
with the consummation of the Business Combination,  provided  that
commencing on the effective date of the IPO, CM Equity Management, L.P. ( Related
Party ) shall be allowed to charge the Company $7,500 per month to compensate
it for the Company s use of Related Party s offices, utilities and personnel. The
undersigned shall also be entitled to reimbursement from the Company for his
out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with seeking and consummating a
Business Combination. 

6.                Neither
the undersigned, any member of the family of the undersigned, nor any Affiliate
of the undersigned will be entitled to receive, or accept, a finder s fee or
any other compensation in the event the undersigned, any member of the family
of the undersigned or any Affiliate of the undersigned originates a Business
Combination. 

7.                The
undersigned will escrow his Insider Shares for the three year period commencing
on the Effective Date subject to the terms of a Stock Escrow Agreement which
the Company will enter into with an escrow agent acceptable to the Company. 

8.                The
undersigned agrees to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Company,
President and Secretary of the Company until the earlier of the consummation by
the Company of a Business Combination or the Liquidation Date. The undersigned s
biographical information furnished to the Company and the Underwriter and
attached hereto as Exhibit A is true and accurate in all respects, does not
omit any material information with respect to the undersigned s background and contains
all of the information required to be disclosed pursuant 

2  

to Section 401 of Regulation S-K, promulgated under
the Securities Act of 1933. The undersigned s questionnaires furnished to the
Company and the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit B are true and
accurate in all respects. The undersigned represents and warrants that:  

(a)              the
undersigned is not subject to or a respondent in any legal action for, any
injunction, cease-and-desist order or order or stipulation to desist or refrain
from any act or practice relating to the offering of securities in any
jurisdiction; 

(b)              the
undersigned has never been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any crime (i) involving
any fraud or (ii) relating to any financial transaction or handling of funds of
another person, or (iii) pertaining to any dealings in any securities and he is
not currently a defendant in any such criminal proceeding; and 

(c)              the
undersigned has never been suspended or expelled from membership in any
securities or commodities exchange or association or had a securities or
commodities license or registrations denied, suspended or revoked. 

9.                The
undersigned has full right and power, without violating any agreement by which
he is bound (including, without limitation, any non-competition or
non-solicitation agreement with any employer or former employer), to enter into
this letter agreement and to serve as President, Secretary of the Company and a
member of the Board of Directors of the Company. 

10.              As
used herein, (i) a  Business Combination  shall mean an acquisition by merger,
capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or
otherwise, of an operating business in the federal services or defense industry
selected by the Company; (ii)  Insiders  shall mean all officers,
directors and stockholders of the Company immediately prior to the IPO; (iii)  Insider
Shares  shall mean all of the shares of Common Stock of the Company owned by an
Insider prior to the IPO; (iv)  IPO Shares  shall mean the shares of Common
Stock issued in the Company s IPO; (v)  Public Stockholders  shall mean those
persons other than the Insiders that are holders of IPO Shares; (vi)  Target
Business  shall mean any operating business in the federal services and defense
industries which the Company seeks to acquire in a Business Combination; and
(vii)  Trust Fund  shall mean the Trust Account established under that certain
Investment Management Trust Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the
Company and Continental Stock Transfer   Trust Company. 

The
undersigned acknowledges and understands that the Underwriter and the Company
will rely upon the agreements, representations and warranties set forth herein
in proceeding with the IPO. The Company and the undersigned acknowledge that
the Underwriter is an intended third party beneficiary of the provisions of
this letter agreement. In that regard, the Underwriter shall have the right in
its sole discretion, but not the obligation, to enforce the provisions of this
letter agreement. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to render the
Underwriter a representative of, or a fiduciary with respect to, the Company,
its stockholders, or any creditor or vendor of the Company with respect to the
subject matter hereof.  

This
letter agreement shall be binding on the undersigned and such person s
respective successors, heirs, personal representatives and assigns. This letter
agreement shall terminate on  

3  

the earlier of (i) the Business Combination Date and
(ii) the Liquidation Date; provided that such termination shall not relieve the
undersigned from liability for any breach of this agreement prior to its
termination.  

This
letter agreement shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts
formed and to be performed entirely within the State of New York, without
regard to the conflicts of law provisions thereof to the extent such principles
or rules would require or permit the application of the laws of another
jurisdiction.  

No
term or provision of this letter agreement may be amended, changed, waived,
altered or modified except by written instrument executed and delivered by the
party against whom such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification
is to be enforced.  

/s/ PETER M. SCHULTE  

Peter M. Schulte  

President and Secretary  

Signature  

Accepted and agreed:  

Federal Services
  Acquisition Corporation  

By:   

/s/ JOEL R. JACKS  

Name: Joel R. Jacks  

Title: Chairman and
  Chief Executive Officer  

4  

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.3>
 6
 a06-7939_1ex10d3.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.3   

October 19, 2005  

Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation  

  900 Third Avenue, 33 rd 
Floor  

  New York, New York  10022  

Re:              Initial
Public Offering  

Gentlemen:  

This
letter is being delivered to you in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement
(the  Underwriting Agreement ) entered into by and between Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and CRT
Capital Group LLC (the  Underwriter ), relating to an underwritten initial
public offering (the  IPO ) of the Company s units (the  Units ), each
comprised of one share of the Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per
share (the  Common Stock ), and two warrants, each of which are exercisable for
one share of Common Stock (each, a  Warrant ). Certain capitalized terms used
herein are defined in paragraph 10 hereof.  

In
order to induce the Company and the Underwriter to enter into the Underwriting
Agreement and to proceed with the IPO, and in recognition of the benefit that
such IPO will confer upon the undersigned as a stockholder of the Company, and
for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which
are hereby acknowledged, the undersigned hereby agrees with the Company as
follows:  

1.                If
the Company solicits approval of its stockholders of a Business Combination,
the undersigned will vote all Insider Shares and IPO Shares owned by him in
accordance with the majority of the votes cast by the holders of the Public
Stockholders. 

2.                In
the event that the Company fails to consummate a Business Combination within 18
months from the effective date ( Effective Date ) of the registration statement
relating to the IPO or 24 months under the circumstances described in the
prospectus relating to the IPO (the first to occur of such dates, the  Transaction
Failure Date ), the undersigned will take all reasonable actions within his
power to cause (i) the Trust Fund to be liquidated and distributed to the
holders of the IPO Shares as soon as practicable but in no event later than 60
(sixty) calendar days after the Transaction Failure Date and (ii) cause the
Company to dissolve and liquidate as soon as practicable (the earliest date on
which the conditions in clauses (i) and (ii) are both satisfied being the  Liquidation
Date ). The undersigned hereby waives any and all right, title, interest or
claim of any kind in or to any distributions of the Trust Fund as a result of
such distribution with respect to his Insider Shares ( Claim ) and hereby
waives any Claim the undersigned may have in the future as a result of, or
arising out of, any contracts or agreements with the Company and will not seek
recourse against the Trust Fund for any reason whatsoever. The undersigned
hereby agrees that the Company shall be entitled to reimbursement from the 

undersigned for any distribution of the Trust Fund
received by the undersigned in respect of such person s Insider Shares.  

3.                The
undersigned acknowledges and agrees that the Company will not consummate its
initial Business Combination with any company which is affiliated with one or
more of the Insiders. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in no
event will the Company seek to acquire as its initial Business Combination any
of the portfolio companies in which any private equity funds managed by Joel R.
Jacks or Peter M. Schulte have an investment. 

4.                In
order to minimize potential conflicts of interest which may arise from multiple
affiliations, the undersigned will present to the Company for its
consideration, prior to presentation to any other person or company, any
suitable opportunity to acquire a Target Business, until the earlier of the
consummation by the Company of a Business Combination, the distribution of the
Trust Fund or until such time as the undersigned ceases to be a director and stockholder
of the Company, subject to any pre-existing fiduciary obligations the
undersigned might have, including any portfolio company managed by CMEP. 

5.                Neither
the undersigned, any member of the family of the undersigned, nor any Affiliate
of the undersigned will be entitled to receive and will not accept any
compensation for services rendered to the Company prior to or in connection
with the consummation of the Business Combination, provided that commencing on
the effective date of the IPO, CM Equity Management, L.P. ( Related Party )
shall be allowed to charge the Company $7,500 per month to compensate it for
the Company s use of Related Party s offices, utilities and personnel. The
undersigned shall also be entitled to reimbursement from the Company for his out-of-pocket
expenses incurred in connection with seeking and consummating a Business
Combination. 

6.                Neither
the undersigned, any member of the family of the undersigned, nor any Affiliate
of the undersigned will be entitled to receive, or accept, a finder s fee or
any other compensation in the event the undersigned, any member of the family
of the undersigned or any Affiliate of the undersigned originates a Business
Combination. 

7.                The
undersigned will escrow his Insider Shares for the three year period commencing
on the Effective Date subject to the terms of a Stock Escrow Agreement which
the Company will enter into with an escrow agent acceptable to the Company. 

8.                The
undersigned agrees to be Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company
until the earlier of the consummation by the Company of a Business Combination
or the Liquidation Date. The undersigned s biographical information furnished
to the Company and the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit A is true and
accurate in all respects, does not omit any material information with respect
to the undersigned s background and contains all of the information required to
be disclosed pursuant to Section 401 of Regulation S-K, promulgated under the
Securities Act of 1933. The undersigned s questionnaires furnished to the
Company and the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit B are true and
accurate in all respects. The undersigned represents and warrants that: 

2  

(a)              the
undersigned is not subject to or a respondent in any legal action for, any
injunction, cease-and-desist order or order or stipulation to desist or refrain
from any act or practice relating to the offering of securities in any
jurisdiction; 

(b)              the
undersigned has never been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any crime (i)
involving any fraud or (ii) relating to any financial transaction or handling
of funds of another person, or (iii) pertaining to any dealings in any
securities and he is not currently a defendant in any such criminal proceeding;
and 

(c)              the
undersigned has never been suspended or expelled from membership in any
securities or commodities exchange or association or had a securities or
commodities license or registrations denied, suspended or revoked. 

9.                The
undersigned has full right and power, without violating any agreement by which
he is bound (including, without limitation, any non-competition or
non-solicitation agreement with any employer or former employer), to enter into
this letter agreement and to serve as Vice-Chairman of the Company and a member
of the Board of Directors of the Company. 

10.              As
used herein, (i) a  Business Combination  shall mean an acquisition by merger,
capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or
otherwise, of an operating business in the federal services or defense industry
selected by the Company; (ii)  Insiders  shall mean all officers,
directors and stockholders of the Company immediately prior to the IPO; (iii)  Insider
Shares  shall mean all of the shares of Common Stock of the Company owned by an
Insider prior to the IPO; (iv)  IPO Shares  shall mean the shares of Common
Stock issued in the Company s IPO; (v)  Public Stockholders  shall mean those
persons other than the Insiders that are holders of IPO Shares; (vi)  Target
Business  shall mean any operating business in the federal services and defense
industries which the Company seeks to acquire in a Business Combination; and
(vii)  Trust Fund  shall mean the Trust Account established under that certain
Investment Management Trust Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the
Company and Continental Stock Transfer   Trust Company. 

The undersigned acknowledges and understands that
the Underwriter and the Company will rely upon the agreements, representations
and warranties set forth herein in proceeding with the IPO. The Company and the
undersigned acknowledge that the Underwriter is an intended third party
beneficiary of the provisions of this letter agreement. In that regard, the
Underwriter shall have the right in its sole discretion, but not the
obligation, to enforce the provisions of this letter agreement. Nothing
contained herein shall be deemed to render the Underwriter a representative of,
or a fiduciary with respect to, the Company, its stockholders, or any creditor
or vendor of the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof.  

This letter agreement shall be binding on the
undersigned and such person s respective successors, heirs, personal
representatives and assigns. This letter agreement shall terminate on the
earlier of (i) the Business Combination Date and (ii) the Liquidation Date;
provided that such termination shall not relieve the undersigned from liability
for any breach of this agreement prior to its termination.  

3  

This letter agreement shall be governed by and
interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York
applicable to contracts formed and to be performed entirely within the State of
New York, without regard to the conflicts of law provisions thereof to the
extent such principles or rules would require or permit the application of the
laws of another jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of this letter agreement may
be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified except by written instrument
executed and delivered by the party against whom such amendment, change,
waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

/s/ EDWARD H. BERSOFF  

Dr. Edward H. Bersoff  

Vice-Chairman  

Signature  

Accepted and agreed:  

Federal Services
  Acquisition Corporation  

By:   

/s/ JOEL R. JACKS  

Name: Joel R. Jacks  

Title: Chairman and
  Chief Executive Officer  

4  

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.4>
 7
 a06-7939_1ex10d4.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.4   

October 19, 2005  

Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation  

  900 Third Avenue, 33 rd 
Floor  

  New York, New York  10022  

Re:              Initial
Public Offering  

Gentlemen:  

This letter is being
delivered to you in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement (the  Underwriting
Agreement ) entered into by and between Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and CRT Capital Group LLC
(the  Underwriter ), relating to an underwritten initial public offering (the  IPO )
of the Company s units (the  Units ), each comprised of one share of the
Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the  Common Stock ), and
two warrants, each of which are exercisable for one share of Common Stock
(each, a  Warrant ). Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in
paragraph 10 hereof.  

In
order to induce the Company and the Underwriter to enter into the Underwriting
Agreement and to proceed with the IPO, and in recognition of the benefit that
such IPO will confer upon the undersigned as a stockholder of the Company, and
for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which
are hereby acknowledged, the undersigned hereby agrees with the Company as
follows:  

1.                If
the Company solicits approval of its stockholders of a Business Combination,
the undersigned will vote all Insider Shares and IPO Shares owned by him in
accordance with the majority of the votes cast by the holders of the Public
Stockholders. 

2.                In
the event that the Company fails to consummate a Business Combination within 18
months from the effective date ( Effective Date ) of the registration statement
relating to the IPO or 24 months under the circumstances described in the
prospectus relating to the IPO, the undersigned will take all reasonable
actions within his power to (i) cause the Trust Fund to be liquidated and
distributed to the holders of the IPO Shares as soon as practicable but in no
event later than 60 (sixty) calendar days after the Transaction Failure Date
and (ii) cause the Company to dissolve and liquidate as soon as practicable
(the earliest date on which the conditions in clauses (i) and (ii) are both
satisfied being the  Liquidation Date ). The undersigned hereby waives any and
all right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any distributions of
the Trust Fund as a result of such distribution with respect to his Insider
Shares ( Claim ) and hereby waives any Claim the undersigned may have in the
future as a result of, or arising out of, any contracts or agreements with the
Company and will not seek recourse against the Trust Fund for any reason
whatsoever. The undersigned hereby agrees that the Company shall be entitled to
reimbursement from the undersigned for any distribution of the Trust Fund
received by the undersigned in respect of such person s Insider Shares. 

3.                The
undersigned acknowledges and agrees that the Company will not consummate its
initial Business Combination with any company which is affiliated with one or
more of the Insiders. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in no
event will the Company seek to acquire as its initial Business Combination any
of the portfolio companies in which any private equity funds managed by Joel R.
Jacks or Peter M. Schulte have an investment. 

4.                In
order to minimize potential conflicts of interest which may arise from multiple
affiliations, the undersigned will present to the Company for its
consideration, prior to presentation to any other person or company, any
suitable opportunity to acquire a Target Business, until the earlier of the
consummation by the Company of a Business Combination, the distribution of the
Trust Fund or until such time as the undersigned ceases to be a director and
stockholder of the Company, subject to any pre-existing fiduciary obligations
the undersigned might have, including any portfolio company managed by CMEP. 

5.                Neither
the undersigned, any member of the family of the undersigned, nor any Affiliate
of the undersigned will be entitled to receive and will not accept any compensation
for services rendered to the Company prior to or in connection with the
consummation of the Business Combination,  provided  that commencing on
the Effective Date, CM Equity Management, L.P. ( Related Party ) shall be
allowed to charge the Company an allocable share of Related Party s overhead,
up to $7,500 per month, to compensate it for the Company s use of Related Party s
offices, utilities and personnel. 

6.                Neither
the undersigned, any member of the family of the undersigned, nor any Affiliate
of the undersigned will be entitled to receive, or accept, a finder s fee or
any other compensation in the event the undersigned, any member of the family
of the undersigned or any Affiliate of the undersigned originates a Business
Combination. 

7.                The
undersigned will escrow his Insider Shares for the three year period commencing
on the Effective Date subject to the terms of a Stock Escrow Agreement which
the Company will enter into with an escrow agent acceptable to the Company. 

8.                The
undersigned agrees to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Company
until the earlier of the consummation by the Company of a Business Combination
or the Liquidation Date. The undersigned s biographical information furnished
to the Company and the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit A is true and
accurate in all respects, does not omit any material information with respect
to the undersigned s background and contains all of the information required to
be disclosed pursuant to Section 401 of Regulation S-K, promulgated under the
Securities Act of 1933. The undersigned s questionnaires furnished to the
Company and the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit B are true and
accurate in all respects. The undersigned represents and warrants that: 

(a)              the
undersigned is not subject to or a respondent in any legal action for, any
injunction, cease-and-desist order or order or stipulation to desist or refrain
from any act or practice relating to the offering of securities in any
jurisdiction; 

2  

(b)              the
undersigned has never been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any crime (i)
involving any fraud or (ii) relating to any financial transaction or handling
of funds of another person, or (iii) pertaining to any dealings in any
securities and he is not currently a defendant in any such criminal proceeding;
and 

(c)              the
undersigned has never been suspended or expelled from membership in any
securities or commodities exchange or association or had a securities or
commodities license or registrations denied, suspended or revoked. 

9.                The
undersigned has full right and power, without violating any agreement by which
he is bound (including, without limitation, any non-competition or
non-solicitation agreement with any employer or former employer), to enter into
this letter agreement and to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the
Company. 

10.              As
used herein, (i) a  Business Combination  shall mean an acquisition by merger,
capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or
otherwise, of an operating business in the federal services or defense industry
selected by the Company; (ii)  Insiders  shall mean all officers,
directors and stockholders of the Company immediately prior to the IPO; (iii)  Insider
Shares  shall mean all of the shares of Common Stock of the Company owned by an
Insider prior to the IPO; (iv)  IPO Shares  shall mean the shares of Common
Stock issued in the Company s IPO; (v)  Public Stockholders  shall mean those
persons other than the Insiders that are holders of IPO Shares; (vi)  Target
Business  shall mean any operating business in the federal services and defense
industries which the Company seeks to acquire in a Business Combination; and
(vii)  Trust Fund  shall mean the Trust Account established under that certain
Investment Management Trust Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the
Company and Continental Stock Transfer   Trust Company. 

The undersigned acknowledges and understands that the
Underwriter and the Company will rely upon the agreements, representations and
warranties set forth herein in proceeding with the IPO. The Company and the
undersigned acknowledge that the Underwriter is an intended third party
beneficiary of the provisions of this letter agreement. In that regard, the
Underwriter shall have the right in its sole discretion, but not the
obligation, to enforce the provisions of this letter agreement. Nothing
contained herein shall be deemed to render the Underwriter a representative of,
or a fiduciary with respect to, the Company, its stockholders, or any creditor
or vendor of the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof.  

This
letter agreement shall be binding on the undersigned and such person s
respective successors, heirs, personal representatives and assigns. This letter
agreement shall terminate on the earlier of (i) the Business Combination Date
and (ii) the Liquidation Date; provided that such termination shall not relieve
the undersigned from liability for any breach of this agreement prior to its
termination.  

This letter agreement shall be governed by and
interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York
applicable to contracts formed and to be performed entirely within the State of
New York, without regard to the conflicts of law provisions thereof to the
extent such principles or rules would require or permit the application of the
laws of another jurisdiction.  

3  

No
term or provision of this letter agreement may be amended, changed, waived,
altered or modified except by written instrument executed and delivered by the
party against whom such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification
is to be enforced.  

/s/ ARTHUR L. MONEY  

Arthur L. Money  

Director  

Signature  

Accepted and agreed:  

Federal Services
  Acquisition Corporation  

By:   

/s/ JOEL R. JACKS  

Name: Joel R. Jacks  

Title: Chairman and
  Chief Executive Officer  

4  

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.5>
 8
 a06-7939_1ex10d5.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.5   

October 19, 2005  

Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation  

  900 Third Avenue, 33 rd 
Floor  

  New York, New York  10022  

Re:              Initial
Public Offering  

Gentlemen:  

This letter is being
delivered to you in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement (the  Underwriting
Agreement ) entered into by and between Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and CRT Capital Group LLC
(the  Underwriter ), relating to an underwritten initial public offering (the  IPO )
of the Company s units (the  Units ), each comprised of one share of the
Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the  Common Stock ), and
two warrants, each of which are exercisable for one share of Common Stock
(each, a  Warrant ). Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in
paragraph 10 hereof.  

In
order to induce the Company and the Underwriter to enter into the Underwriting
Agreement and to proceed with the IPO, and in recognition of the benefit that
such IPO will confer upon FSAC Partners, LLC, a stockholder of the Company, and
for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which
are hereby acknowledged, the undersigned in the name of and on behalf of FSAC
Partners, LLC hereby agrees with the Company as follows:  

1.                If
the Company solicits approval of its stockholders of a Business Combination, FSAC
Partners, LLC will vote all Insider Shares and IPO Shares owned by it in
accordance with the majority of the votes cast by the Public Stockholders. 

2.                In
the event that the Company fails to consummate a Business Combination within 18
months from the effective date ( Effective Date ) of the registration statement
relating to the IPO or 24 months under the circumstances described in the
prospectus relating to the IPO) (the first to occur of such date, the  Transaction
Failure Date ), FSAC Partners, LLC will take all reasonable actions within its
power to cause (i) the Trust Fund to be liquidated and distributed to the
holders of the IPO Shares as soon as practicable but in no event later than 60
(sixty) calendar days after the Transaction Failure Date and (ii) cause the
Company to dissolve and liquidate as soon as practicable (the earliest date on
which the conditions in clauses (i) and (ii) are both satisfied being the  Liquidation
Date ). FSAC Partners, LLC hereby waives any and all right, title, interest or
claim of any kind in or to any distributions of the Trust Fund as a result of
such distribution with respect to its Insider Shares ( Claim ) and hereby
waives any Claim FSAC Partners, LLC may have in the future as a result of, or
arising out of, any contracts or agreements with the Company and will not seek
recourse against the Trust Fund for any reason whatsoever. FSAC Partners, LLC
hereby agrees that the Company shall be entitled to 

reimbursement from FSAC Partners, LLC for any
distribution of the Trust Fund received by FSAC Partners, LLC in respect of
such person s Insider Shares.  

3.                FSAC
Partners, LLC acknowledges and agrees that the Company will not consummate its
initial Business Combination with any company which is affiliated with one or
more of the Insiders. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in no
event will the Company seek to acquire as its initial Business Combination any
of the portfolio companies in which any private equity funds managed by Joel R.
Jacks or Peter M. Schulte have an investment. 

4.                In
order to minimize potential conflicts of interest which may arise from multiple
affiliations, FSAC Partners, LLC will present to the Company for its
consideration, prior to presentation to any other person or company, any
suitable opportunity to acquire a Target Business, until the earlier of the
consummation by the Company of a Business Combination, the distribution of the
Trust Fund or until such time as the undersigned ceases to be a stockholder of
the Company, subject to any pre-existing fiduciary obligations FSAC Partners,
LLC might have. 

5.                Neither
FSAC Partners, LLC nor any of its Affiliates will be entitled to receive and
will not accept any compensation for services rendered to the Company prior to or
in connection with the consummation of the Business Combination,  provided 
that commencing on the effective date of the IPO, CM Equity Management, L.P. ( Related
Party ) shall be allowed to charge the Company an allocable share of Related
Party s overhead, up to $7,500 per month to compensate it for the Company s use
of Related Party s offices, utilities and personnel. FSAC Partners, LLC or any of
its Affiliates shall also be entitled to reimbursement from the Company for its
or their out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with seeking and
consummating a Business Combination. 

6.                Neither
FSAC Partners, LLC nor any of its Affiliates will be entitled to receive, or
accept, a finder s fee or any other compensation in the event FSAC Partners,
LLC or any of its Affiliates originates a Business Combination. 

7.                FSAC
Partners, LLC will escrow its Insider Shares for the three year period
commencing on the Effective Date subject to the terms of a Stock Escrow
Agreement which the Company will enter into with an escrow agent acceptable to
the Company. 

8.                FSAC
Partners, LLC agrees to be a stockholder of the Company until the earlier of
the consummation by the Company of a Business Combination or the Liquidation
Date. The information furnished to the Company by FSAC Partners, LLC is true
and accurate in all respects, does not omit any material information with
respect to FSAC Partners, LLC and contains all of the information required to
be disclosed pursuant to Section 401 of Regulation S-K, promulgated under the
Securities Act of 1933. FSAC Partners, LLC s questionnaires furnished to the
Company and the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit A are true and
accurate in all respects. FSAC Partners, LLC represents and warrants that: 

(a)              FSAC
Partners, LLC is not, and its control person are not, subject to or a
respondent in any legal action for, any injunction, cease-and-desist order or
order or stipulation 

2  

to desist or refrain from any act or practice relating
to the offering of securities in any jurisdiction;  

(b)              FSAC
Partners, LLC has never, and its control person have never, been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to any crime (i) involving any fraud or (ii) relating to any
financial transaction or handling of funds of another person, or (iii)
pertaining to any dealings in any securities and he is not currently a
defendant in any such criminal proceeding; and 

(c)              FSAC
Partners, LLC has never, and its control person have never, been suspended or
expelled from membership in any securities or commodities exchange or
association or had a securities or commodities license or registrations denied,
suspended or revoked. 

9.                FSAC
Partners, LLC has full right and power, without violating any agreement by
which its is bound (including, without limitation, any non-competition or
non-solicitation agreement with any employer or former employer), to enter into
this letter agreement . 

10.              As
used herein, (i) a  Business Combination  shall mean an acquisition by merger,
capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or
otherwise, of an operating business in the federal services or defense industry
selected by the Company; (ii)  Insiders  shall mean all officers,
directors and stockholders of the Company immediately prior to the IPO; (iii)  Insider
Shares  shall mean all of the shares of Common Stock of the Company owned by an
Insider prior to the IPO; (iv)  IPO Shares  shall mean the shares of Common
Stock issued in the Company s IPO; (v)  Public Stockholders  shall mean those
persons other than the Insiders that are holders of IPO Shares; (vi)  Target
Business  shall mean any operating business in the federal services and defense
industries which the Company seeks to acquire in a Business Combination; and (vii)
 Trust Fund  shall mean the Trust Account established under that certain
Investment Management Trust Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the
Company and Continental Stock Transfer   Trust Company. 

FSAC Partners, LLC acknowledges and understands that
the Underwriter and the Company will rely upon the agreements, representations
and warranties set forth herein in proceeding with the IPO. The Company and FSAC
Partners, LLC acknowledge that the Underwriter is an intended third party
beneficiary of the provisions of this letter agreement. In that regard, the
Underwriter shall have the right in its sole discretion, but not the
obligation, to enforce the provisions of this letter agreement. Nothing
contained herein shall be deemed to render the Underwriter a representative of,
or a fiduciary with respect to, the Company, its stockholders, or any creditor
or vendor of the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof.  

This
letter agreement shall be binding on FSAC Partners, LLC and such person s
respective successors, heirs, personal representatives and assigns. This letter
agreement shall terminate on the earlier of (i) the Business Combination Date
and (ii) the Liquidation Date; provided that such termination shall not relieve
FSAC Partners, LLC from liability for any breach of this agreement prior to its
termination.  

This letter agreement shall be governed by and
interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York
applicable to contracts formed and to be performed  

3  

entirely within the State
of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law provisions thereof to the
extent such principles or rules would require or permit the application of the
laws of another jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of this letter agreement may be
amended, changed, waived, altered or modified except by written instrument
executed and delivered by the party against whom such amendment, change,
waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

/s/ JOEL R. JACKS  

Joel R. Jacks  

On behalf of FSAC
  Partners, LLC  

Signature  

Accepted and agreed:  

Federal Services
  Acquisition Corporation  

By:   

/s/ PETER M. SCHULTE  

Name: Peter M. Schulte  

Title: President and
  Secretary  

4  

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.6>
 9
 a06-7939_1ex10d6.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.6   

October 19, 2005  

CRT Capital Group LLC 
262 Harbor Drive 
Stamford, CT 06902  

Re:             Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation Initial Public Offering 

Ladies and Gentlemen:  

This letter is being delivered to you in accordance
with the Underwriting Agreement (the  Underwriting Agreement ) between Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and
CRT Capital Group LLC (the  Underwriter ) relating to an underwritten initial
public offering (the  IPO ) of the Company s units (the  Units ), each
comprised of one share of the Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per
share (the  Common Stock ), and two warrants, each of which are exercisable for
one share of Common Stock (each, a  Warrant ).  

In order to induce the
Company and the Underwriter to enter into the Underwriting Agreement and to
proceed with the IPO, and in recognition of the benefit that such IPO will
confer upon the undersigned as a stockholder of the company, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the undersigned hereby agrees with the Underwriter as follows:  

The undersigned
represents and warrants that, as of the date hereof, other than de minimis
errors or omissions, (i) the biographical information furnished to the
Company and the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit A is true and
accurate in all respects, does not omit any material information with respect
to the undersigned s background during the previous five years and contains all
of the information required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 401 of Regulation
S-K, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
(ii) the questionnaires furnished by the undersigned to the Company and
the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit B are true and accurate in
all respects.  The undersigned further represents and warrants that:  

(a)              The
undersigned is not subject to or a respondent in any legal action for any
injunction, cease-and-desist order or order or stipulation to desist or refrain
from any act or practices relating to the offering of securities in any
jurisdiction; 

(b)              The
undersigned has never been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any crime and is
not currently a defendant in a criminal proceeding (i) involving any
fraud, (ii) relating to any financial transaction or handling of funds of
another person, (iii) pertaining to any dealings in any securities; and 

(c)              The
undersigned has never been suspended or expelled from membership in any
securities or commodities exchange or association or had a securities or
commodities license or registration denied, suspended or revoked. 

The undersigned
understands that the Underwriter may conduct a background check with respect to
the undersigned, and hereby authorizes any employer, financial institution or
consumer credit reporting agency to release to the Underwriter and its legal
representatives or agents (including any investigative search firm retained by
the Underwriter) any information they may have about the undersigned s
background and finances ( Information ).  Neither the Underwriter nor its
agents shall be violating the undersigned s right of privacy in any manner in
requesting and obtaining the Information or in otherwise performing a
background check, and the undersigned hereby releases them from liability for
any damage whatsoever in that connection.  

The undersigned
acknowledges and understands that the Underwriter and the Company will rely
upon the agreements, representations and warranties set forth herein in
proceeding with the IPO.  

This letter agreement
shall be binding on the undersigned and the undersigned s respective
successors, heirs, personal representatives and assigns.  

This letter agreement
shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York applicable to contracts formed and to be performed
entirely within the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law
provisions thereof to the extent such principles or rules would require or
permit the application of the laws of another jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of
this letter agreement may be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified
except by written instrument executed and delivered by the party against whom
such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

Very truly yours,  

/s/ JOEL R. JACKS  

Joel R. Jacks  

Accepted and agreed as
  of the date hereof:  

CRT CAPITAL GROUP LLC  

By:   

/s/ ERIC SEAL  

Name: Eric Seal  

Title: Vice President  

2  

EXHIBIT A  

Biography    

See attached.  

3  

EXHIBIT B  

Questionnaires    

See attached.  

4  

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.7>
 10
 a06-7939_1ex10d7.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.7   

October 19, 2005  

CRT Capital Group LLC 
262 Harbor Drive 
Stamford, CT 06902  

Re:             Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation Initial Public Offering 

Ladies and Gentlemen:  

This letter is being delivered to you in accordance
with the Underwriting Agreement (the  Underwriting Agreement ) between Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and
CRT Capital Group LLC (the  Underwriter ) relating to an underwritten initial
public offering (the  IPO ) of the Company s units (the  Units ), each
comprised of one share of the Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per
share (the  Common Stock ), and two warrants, each of which are exercisable for
one share of Common Stock (each, a  Warrant ).  

In order to induce the
Company and the Underwriter to enter into the Underwriting Agreement and to
proceed with the IPO, and in recognition of the benefit that such IPO will
confer upon the undersigned as a stockholder of the company, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the undersigned hereby agrees with the Underwriter as follows:  

The undersigned
represents and warrants that, as of the date hereof, other than de minimis
errors or omissions, (i) the biographical information furnished to the
Company and the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit A is true and
accurate in all respects, does not omit any material information with respect
to the undersigned s background during the previous five years and contains all
of the information required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 401 of Regulation
S-K, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
(ii) the questionnaires furnished by the undersigned to the Company and
the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit B are true and accurate in
all respects.  The undersigned further represents and warrants that:  

(a)              The
undersigned is not subject to or a respondent in any legal action for any
injunction, cease-and-desist order or order or stipulation to desist or refrain
from any act or practices relating to the offering of securities in any
jurisdiction; 

(b)              The
undersigned has never been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any crime and is
not currently a defendant in a criminal proceeding (i) involving any
fraud, (ii) relating to any financial transaction or handling of funds of
another person, (iii) pertaining to any dealings in any securities; and 

(c)              The
undersigned has never been suspended or expelled from membership in any
securities or commodities exchange or association or had a securities or
commodities license or registration denied, suspended or revoked. 

The undersigned
understands that the Underwriter may conduct a background check with respect to
the undersigned, and hereby authorizes any employer, financial institution or
consumer credit reporting agency to release to the Underwriter and its legal
representatives or agents (including any investigative search firm retained by
the Underwriter) any information they may have about the undersigned s
background and finances ( Information ).  Neither the Underwriter nor its
agents shall be violating the undersigned s right of privacy in any manner in
requesting and obtaining the Information or in otherwise performing a
background check, and the undersigned hereby releases them from liability for
any damage whatsoever in that connection.  

The undersigned
acknowledges and understands that the Underwriter and the Company will rely
upon the agreements, representations and warranties set forth herein in
proceeding with the IPO.  

This letter agreement
shall be binding on the undersigned and the undersigned s respective
successors, heirs, personal representatives and assigns.  

This letter agreement
shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York applicable to contracts formed and to be performed
entirely within the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law
provisions thereof to the extent such principles or rules would require or
permit the application of the laws of another jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of
this letter agreement may be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified
except by written instrument executed and delivered by the party against whom
such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

Very truly yours,  

/s/ PETER M. SCHULTE  

Peter M. Schulte  

Accepted and agreed as
  of the date hereof:  

CRT CAPITAL GROUP LLC  

By:   

/s/ ERIC SEAL  

Name: Eric Seal  

Title: Vice President  

2  

EXHIBIT A  

Biography    

See attached.  

3  

EXHIBIT B  

Questionnaires    

See attached.  

4  

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.8>
 11
 a06-7939_1ex10d8.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.8   

October 19, 2005  

CRT Capital Group LLC 
262 Harbor Drive 
Stamford, CT 06902  

Re:             Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation Initial Public Offering 

Ladies and Gentlemen:  

This letter is being delivered to you in accordance
with the Underwriting Agreement (the  Underwriting Agreement ) between Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and
CRT Capital Group LLC (the  Underwriter ) relating to an underwritten initial
public offering (the  IPO ) of the Company s units (the  Units ), each
comprised of one share of the Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per
share (the  Common Stock ), and two warrants, each of which are exercisable for
one share of Common Stock (each, a  Warrant ).  

In order to induce the
Company and the Underwriter to enter into the Underwriting Agreement and to
proceed with the IPO, and in recognition of the benefit that such IPO will
confer upon the undersigned as a stockholder of the company, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the undersigned hereby agrees with the Underwriter as follows:  

The undersigned
represents and warrants that, as of the date hereof, other than de minimis
errors or omissions, (i) the biographical information furnished to the
Company and the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit A is true and
accurate in all respects, does not omit any material information with respect
to the undersigned s background during the previous five years and contains all
of the information required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 401 of Regulation
S-K, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
(ii) the questionnaires furnished by the undersigned to the Company and
the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit B are true and accurate in
all respects.  The undersigned further represents and warrants that:  

(a)              The
undersigned is not subject to or a respondent in any legal action for any
injunction, cease-and-desist order or order or stipulation to desist or refrain
from any act or practices relating to the offering of securities in any
jurisdiction; 

(b)              The
undersigned has never been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any crime and is
not currently a defendant in a criminal proceeding (i) involving any
fraud, (ii) relating to any financial transaction or handling of funds of
another person, (iii) pertaining to any dealings in any securities; and 

(c)              The
undersigned has never been suspended or expelled from membership in any
securities or commodities exchange or association or had a securities or
commodities license or registration denied, suspended or revoked. 

The undersigned
understands that the Underwriter may conduct a background check with respect to
the undersigned, and hereby authorizes any employer, financial institution or
consumer credit reporting agency to release to the Underwriter and its legal
representatives or agents (including any investigative search firm retained by
the Underwriter) any information they may have about the undersigned s
background and finances ( Information ).  Neither the Underwriter nor its
agents shall be violating the undersigned s right of privacy in any manner in
requesting and obtaining the Information or in otherwise performing a
background check, and the undersigned hereby releases them from liability for
any damage whatsoever in that connection.  

The undersigned
acknowledges and understands that the Underwriter and the Company will rely
upon the agreements, representations and warranties set forth herein in
proceeding with the IPO.  

This letter agreement
shall be binding on the undersigned and the undersigned s respective
successors, heirs, personal representatives and assigns.  

This letter agreement
shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York applicable to contracts formed and to be performed
entirely within the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law
provisions thereof to the extent such principles or rules would require or
permit the application of the laws of another jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of
this letter agreement may be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified
except by written instrument executed and delivered by the party against whom
such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

Very truly yours,  

/s/ EDWARD H. BERSOFF  

Dr. Edward H. Bersoff  

Accepted and agreed as
  of the date hereof:  

CRT CAPITAL GROUP LLC  

By:   

/s/ ERIC SEAL  

Name: Eric Seal  

Title: Vice President  

2  

EXHIBIT A  

Biography    

See attached.  

3  

EXHIBIT B  

Questionnaires    

See attached.  

4  

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.9>
 12
 a06-7939_1ex10d9.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.9   

October 19, 2005  

CRT Capital Group LLC 
262 Harbor Drive 
Stamford, CT 06902  

Re:          Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation Initial Public Offering  

Ladies and Gentlemen:  

This letter is being delivered to you in accordance
with the Underwriting Agreement (the  Underwriting Agreement ) between Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and
CRT Capital Group LLC (the  Underwriter ) relating to an underwritten initial
public offering (the  IPO ) of the Company s units (the  Units ), each
comprised of one share of the Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per
share (the  Common Stock ), and two warrants, each of which are exercisable for
one share of Common Stock (each, a  Warrant ).  

In order to induce the
Company and the Underwriter to enter into the Underwriting Agreement and to
proceed with the IPO, and in recognition of the benefit that such IPO will
confer upon the undersigned as a stockholder of the company, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the undersigned hereby agrees with the Underwriter as follows:  

The undersigned
represents and warrants that, as of the date hereof, other than de minimis
errors or omissions, (i) the biographical information furnished to the
Company and the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit A is true and
accurate in all respects, does not omit any material information with respect
to the undersigned s background during the previous five years and contains all
of the information required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 401 of Regulation
S-K, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
(ii) the questionnaires furnished by the undersigned to the Company and
the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit B are true and accurate in
all respects.  The undersigned further represents and warrants that:  

(a)           The undersigned is not subject to or
a respondent in any legal action for any injunction, cease-and-desist order or
order or stipulation to desist or refrain from any act or practices relating to
the offering of securities in any jurisdiction;  

(b)           The undersigned has never been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to any crime and is not currently a defendant in
a criminal proceeding (i) involving any fraud, (ii) relating to any
financial transaction or handling of funds of another person,
(iii) pertaining to any dealings in any securities; and  

(c)           The undersigned has never been
suspended or expelled from membership in any securities or commodities exchange
or association or had a securities or commodities license or registration
denied, suspended or revoked.  

The undersigned
understands that the Underwriter may conduct a background check with respect to
the undersigned, and hereby authorizes any employer, financial institution or
consumer credit reporting agency to release to the Underwriter and its legal
representatives or agents (including any investigative search firm retained by
the Underwriter) any information they may have about the undersigned s
background and finances ( Information ).  Neither the Underwriter nor its
agents shall be violating the undersigned s right of privacy in any manner in
requesting and obtaining the Information or in otherwise performing a
background check, and the undersigned hereby releases them from liability for
any damage whatsoever in that connection.  

The undersigned
acknowledges and understands that the Underwriter and the Company will rely
upon the agreements, representations and warranties set forth herein in
proceeding with the IPO.  

This letter agreement
shall be binding on the undersigned and the undersigned s respective
successors, heirs, personal representatives and assigns.  

This letter agreement
shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York applicable to contracts formed and to be performed
entirely within the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law
provisions thereof to the extent such principles or rules would require or
permit the application of the laws of another jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of
this letter agreement may be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified
except by written instrument executed and delivered by the party against whom
such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

Very truly yours,  

/s/ ARTHUR L. MONEY  

Arthur L. Money  

Accepted and agreed as
  of the date hereof:  

CRT CAPITAL GROUP LLC  

By:   

/s/ ERIC SEAL  

Name: Eric Seal  

Title: Vice President  

2  

EXHIBIT A  

Biography    

See attached.  

3  

EXHIBIT B  

Questionnaires    

See attached.  

4  

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.10>
 13
 a06-7939_1ex10d10.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.10   

October 19, 2005  

CRT Capital Group LLC 
262 Harbor Drive 
Stamford, CT 06902  

Re:          Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation Initial Public Offering  

Ladies and
Gentlemen:  

This letter is being delivered to you in accordance
with the Underwriting Agreement (the  Underwriting Agreement ) between Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and
CRT Capital Group LLC (the  Underwriter ) relating to an underwritten initial
public offering (the  IPO ) of the Company s units (the  Units ), each
comprised of one share of the Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per
share (the  Common Stock ), and two warrants, each of which are exercisable for
one share of Common Stock (each, a  Warrant ).  

In order to induce the
Company and the Underwriter to enter into the Underwriting Agreement and to
proceed with the IPO, and in recognition of the benefit that such IPO will
confer upon the undersigned as a stockholder of the company, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the undersigned hereby agrees with the Underwriter as follows:  

The undersigned
represents and warrants that, as of the date hereof, other than de minimis
errors or omissions, (i) the biographical information furnished to the
Company and the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit A is true and
accurate in all respects, does not omit any material information with respect
to the undersigned s background during the previous five years and contains all
of the information required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 401 of Regulation
S-K, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
(ii) the questionnaires furnished by the undersigned to the Company and
the Underwriter and attached hereto as Exhibit B are true and accurate in
all respects.  The undersigned further represents and warrants that:  

(a)           The undersigned is not subject to or
a respondent in any legal action for any injunction, cease-and-desist order or
order or stipulation to desist or refrain from any act or practices relating to
the offering of securities in any jurisdiction;  

(b)           The undersigned has never been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to any crime and is not currently a defendant in
a criminal proceeding (i) involving any fraud, (ii) relating to any
financial transaction or handling of funds of another person,
(iii) pertaining to any dealings in any securities; and  

(c)           The undersigned has never been
suspended or expelled from membership in any securities or commodities exchange
or association or had a securities or commodities license or registration
denied, suspended or revoked.  

The undersigned
understands that the Underwriter may conduct a background check with respect to
the undersigned, and hereby authorizes any employer, financial institution or
consumer credit reporting agency to release to the Underwriter and its legal
representatives or agents (including any investigative search firm retained by
the Underwriter) any information they may have about the undersigned s
background and finances ( Information ).  Neither the Underwriter nor its
agents shall be violating the undersigned s right of privacy in any manner in
requesting and obtaining the Information or in otherwise performing a
background check, and the undersigned hereby releases them from liability for
any damage whatsoever in that connection.  

The undersigned
acknowledges and understands that the Underwriter and the Company will rely
upon the agreements, representations and warranties set forth herein in
proceeding with the IPO.  

This letter agreement
shall be binding on the undersigned and the undersigned s respective
successors, heirs, personal representatives and assigns.  

This letter agreement
shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York applicable to contracts formed and to be performed
entirely within the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law
provisions thereof to the extent such principles or rules would require or
permit the application of the laws of another jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of
this letter agreement may be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified
except by written instrument executed and delivered by the party against whom
such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification is to be
enforced.   

Very truly yours,  

/s/ JOEL R. JACKS  

Joel R. Jacks  

On behalf of FSAC Partners, LLC  

Accepted and agreed as of
the date hereof:   

CRT CAPITAL GROUP LLC  

By:  

/s/ ERIC SEAL   

Name: Eric Seal  

Title: Vice President  

2  

EXHIBIT A  

Biography    

See attached.  

3  

EXHIBIT B  

Questionnaires    

See attached.  

4  

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.11>
 14
 a06-7939_1ex10d11.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.11   

INVESTMENT
MANAGEMENT TRUST AGREEMENT   

This
Agreement is made as of October 19, 2005 by and between Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation (the  Company ) and Continental Stock Transfer  
Trust Company ( Trustee ).  

WHEREAS,
the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-1, No. 333-124638 ( Registration
Statement ), for its initial public offering of securities ( IPO ) has been
declared effective as of the date hereof by the Securities and Exchange
Commission ( Effective Date  and  

WHEREAS,
CRT Capital Group LLC ( CRT ) is acting as the underwriter in the IPO; and  

WHEREAS,
as described in the Company s Registration Statement, and in accordance with
the Company s Certificate of Incorporation, $117,180,000 of the gross proceeds
of the IPO ($135,135,000 if the underwriters over-allotment option is exercised
in full) will be delivered to the Trustee to be deposited and held in a trust
account for the benefit of the Company and the holders of the Company s common
stock, par value $.0001 per share, issued in the IPO as hereinafter provided and
in the event the Units are registered in Colorado, pursuant to Section
11-51-302(6) of the Colorado Revised Statutes. A copy of the Colorado Statute
is attached hereto and made a part hereof (the amount to be delivered to the
Trustee will be referred to herein as the  Property , the stockholders for
whose benefit the Trustee shall hold the Property will be referred to as the  Public
Stockholders,  and the Public Stockholders and the Company will be referred to together
as the  Beneficiaries  and  

WHEREAS,
the Company and the Trustee desire to enter into this Agreement to set forth
the terms and conditions pursuant to which the Trustee shall hold the Property;  

IT IS
AGREED:  

1.                 Agreements
and Covenants of Trustee . The Trustee hereby agrees and covenants to: 

(a)              Hold
the Property in trust for the Beneficiaries in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement, including the terms of Section 11-51-302(6) of the Colorado
Statute, in a segregated trust account ( Trust Account ) established by the
Trustee at a branch of JPMorgan Chase NY Bank selected by the Trustee; 

(b)              Manage,
supervise and administer the Trust Account subject to the terms and conditions
set forth herein; 

(c)              In
a timely manner, upon the instruction of the Company, to invest and reinvest
the Property in money market funds or any  Government Security.  As used
herein, Government Security means any Treasury Bill issued by the United
States, having a maturity of one hundred and eighty days or less; 

(d)              Collect
and receive, when due, all principal and income arising from the Property,
which shall become part of the  Property,  as such term is used herein; 

(e)              Notify
the Company and CRT of all communications received by it with respect to any
Property requiring action by the Company; 

(f)               Supply
any necessary information or documents as may be requested by the Company in
connection with the Company s preparation of the tax returns for the Trust
Account; 

(g)              Participate
in any plan or proceeding for protecting or enforcing any right or interest
arising from the Property if, as and when instructed by the Company to do so; 

(h)              Render
to the Company and to CRT, and to such other person as the Company may
instruct, in writing, monthly statements of the activities of and amounts in
the Trust Account reflecting all receipts and disbursements of the Trust
Account; 

(i)               If
there is any income tax obligation relating to the income of the Property in
the Trust Account, then, at the written instruction of the Company, the Trustee
shall issue a check directly to the taxing authorities designated by the
Company, out of the Property in the Trust Account, the amount indicated by the
Company as owing to each such taxing authority; and 

(j)               Commence
liquidation of the Trust Account only after receipt of and only in accordance
with the terms of a letter ( Termination Letter ), in a form substantially
similar to that attached hereto as either Exhibit A or Exhibit B, signed on
behalf of the Company by its President or Chairman of the Board and Secretary
and affirmed by its entire Board of Directors, and complete the liquidation of
the Trust Account and distribute the Property in the Trust Account only as
directed in the Termination Letter and the other documents referred to therein;
 provided ,  however , that in the event that a Termination Letter
has not been received by April 25, 2006 (or the date that is the six month
anniversary of such date, in the event that (i) a letter of intent, agreement
in principle or definitive agreement has been executed prior to such date in
connection with a Business Combination (as defined in the Termination Letter
attached hereto as Exhibit A) that has not been consummated by October 25, 2007
and (ii) the Company has complied with Section 2(d) hereof prior to such date),
the Trust Account shall be liquidated in accordance with the procedures set
forth in the Termination Letter attached as Exhibit B to the stockholders of
record on the record date;  provided ,  further , that the record
date shall be within ten (10) days of April 25, 2007 (or the date that is the
six month anniversary of such date, in the event that (i) a letter of intent,
agreement in principle or definitive agreement has been executed prior to such
date in connection with a Business Combination that has not been consummated by
October 25, 2007 and (ii) the Company has complied with Section 2(d) hereof
prior to such date), or as soon thereafter as is practicable. In all cases, the
Trustee shall provide CRT with a copy of any Termination Letter and/or any
other correspondence that it receives with respect to any proposed withdrawal
from the Trust Account promptly after it receives the same. 

2.                 Agreements
and Covenants of the Company . The Company hereby agrees and covenants to: 

2  

(a)              Give
all instructions to the Trustee hereunder in writing, signed by the Company s
President or Chairman of the Board. In addition, except with respect to its
duties under paragraph 1(i) above, the Trustee shall be entitled to rely on,
and shall be protected in relying on, any verbal or telephonic advice or
instruction which it in good faith believes to be given by any one of the
persons authorized above to give written instructions, provided that the Company
shall promptly confirm such instructions in writing; 

(b)              Hold
the Trustee harmless and indemnify the Trustee from and against, any and all
expenses, including reasonable counsel fees and disbursements, or loss suffered
by the Trustee in connection with any action, suit or other proceeding brought
against the Trustee involving any claim, or in connection with any claim or
demand which in any way arises out of or relates to this Agreement, the
services of the Trustee hereunder, or the Property or any income earned from
investment of the Property, except for expenses and losses resulting from the
Trustee s gross negligence or willful misconduct. Promptly after the receipt by
the Trustee of notice of demand or claim or the commencement of any action,
suit or proceeding, pursuant to which the Trustee intends to seek
indemnification under this paragraph, it shall notify the Company in writing of
such claim (hereinafter referred to as the  Indemnified Claim ). The Trustee
shall have the right to conduct and manage the defense against such Indemnified
Claim, provided, that the Trustee shall obtain the consent of the Company with
respect to the selection of counsel, which consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld. The Company may participate in such action with its own counsel; 

(c)              Pay
the Trustee an initial acceptance fee of $1,000 and a monthly fee of $300 (it
being expressly understood that the Property shall not be used to pay such fee).
The Company shall pay the Trustee the initial acceptance fee and the fee for
the first twelve months at the consummation of the IPO and thereafter on the
anniversary of the Effective Date. The Trustee shall refund to the Company the
fee (on a pro rata basis) with respect to any period after the liquidation of
the Trust Fund. The Company shall not be responsible for any other fees or
charges of the Trustee except as may be provided in paragraph 2(b) hereof (it
being expressly understood that the Property shall not be used to make any
payments to the Trustee under such paragraph); 

(d)              Provide
to the Trustee any letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive
agreement that is executed in connection with a Business Combination, together
with a certified copy of a unanimous resolution of the Board of Directors of
the Company affirming that such letter of intent, agreement in principle or
definitive agreement is in effect; and 

(e)              In
connection with any vote of the Company s stockholders regarding a Business
Combination, provide to the Trustee an affidavit or certificate of a firm
regularly engaged in the business of soliciting proxies and tabulating
stockholder votes (which firm may be the Trustee) verifying the vote of the
Company s stockholders regarding such Business Combination. 

3  

3.                 Limitations
of Liability . The Trustee shall have no responsibility or liability to: 

(a)              Take
any action with respect to the Property, other than as directed in paragraph 1
hereof and the Trustee shall have no liability to any party except for
liability arising out of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct; 

(b)              Institute
any proceeding for the collection of any principal and income arising from, or
institute, appear in or defend any proceeding of any kind with respect to, any
of the Property unless and until it shall have received instructions from the
Company given as provided herein to do so and the Company shall have advanced
or guaranteed to it funds sufficient to pay any expenses incident thereto; 

(c)              Change
the investment of any Property, other than in compliance with paragraph 1(c); 

(d)              Refund
any depreciation in principal of any Property; 

(e)              Assume
that the authority of any person designated by the Company to give instructions
hereunder shall not be continuing unless provided otherwise in such
designation, or unless the Company shall have delivered a written revocation of
such authority to the Trustee; 

(f)               The
other parties hereto or to anyone else for any action taken or omitted by it,
or any action suffered by it to be taken or omitted, in good faith and in the
exercise of its own best judgment, except for its gross negligence or willful
misconduct. The Trustee may rely conclusively and shall be protected in acting
upon any order, notice, demand, certificate, opinion or advice of counsel
(including counsel chosen by the Trustee), statement, instrument, report or
other paper or document (not only as to its due execution and the validity and
effectiveness of its provisions, but also as to the truth and acceptability of
any information therein contained) which is believed by the Trustee, in good
faith, to be genuine and to be signed or presented by the proper person or
persons. The Trustee shall not be bound by any notice or demand, or any waiver,
modification, termination or rescission of this agreement or any of the terms
hereof, unless evidenced by a written instrument delivered to the Trustee
signed by the proper party or parties and, if the duties or rights of the
Trustee are affected, unless it shall give its prior written consent thereto; 

(g)              Verify
the correctness of the information set forth in the Registration Statement or
to confirm or assure that any acquisition made by the Company or any other
action taken by it is as contemplated by the Registration Statement; and 

(h)              File
information returns with the United States Internal Revenue Service and payee
statements with the Company, documenting the taxes payable by the Company, if
any, relating to interest earned on the Property. 

4.                 Trust
Account Waiver . The Trustee has no right, title, interest, or claim of any
kind ( Claim ) in or to any monies in the Trust Account, and hereby waives any
Claim in or to any monies in the Trust Account it may have in the future, and
hereby agrees not to seek  

4  

recourse, reimbursement, payment or satisfaction for
any Claim against the Trust Account for any reason whatsoever.  

5.                 Termination .
This Agreement shall terminate as follows: 

(a)              If
the Trustee gives written notice to the Company that it desires to resign under
this Agreement, the Company shall use its reasonable efforts to locate a
successor trustee. At such time that the Company notifies the Trustee that a
successor trustee has been appointed by the Company and has agreed to become
subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Trustee shall transfer the
management of the Trust Account to the successor trustee, including but not
limited to the transfer of copies of the reports and statements relating to the
Trust Account, whereupon this Agreement shall terminate; provided, however,
that, in the event that the Company does not locate a successor trustee within
ninety days of receipt of the resignation notice from the Trustee, the Trustee
may submit an application to have the Property deposited with the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York and upon such deposit, the
Trustee shall be immune from any liability whatsoever; or 

(b)              At
such time that the Trustee has completed the liquidation of the Trust Account in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 (i) hereof, and distributed the
Property in accordance with the provisions of the Termination Letter, this
Agreement shall terminate except with respect to Paragraph 2(b). 

6.                 Miscellaneous . 

(a)              The
Company and the Trustee each acknowledge that the Trustee will follow the
security procedures set forth below with respect to funds transferred from the
Trust Account. Upon receipt of written instructions, the Trustee will confirm
such instructions with an Authorized Individual at an Authorized Telephone
Number listed on the attached Exhibit C. The Company and the Trustee will each
restrict access to confidential information relating to such security
procedures to authorized persons. Each party must notify the other party
immediately if it has reason to believe unauthorized persons may have obtained
access to such information, or of any change in its authorized personnel. In
executing funds transfers, the Trustee will rely upon account numbers or other
identifying numbers of a beneficiary, beneficiary s bank or intermediary bank,
rather than names. The Trustee shall not be liable for any loss, liability or
expense resulting from any error in an account number or other identifying
number, provided it has accurately transmitted the numbers provided. 

(b)              This
Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with
the laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to conflict of laws. It
may be executed in several counterparts, each one of which shall constitute an
original, and together shall constitute but one instrument. 

(c)              This
Agreement contains the entire agreement and understanding of the parties hereto
with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement or any provision
hereof may only be changed, amended or modified by a writing signed by each of
the parties hereto; provided, however, that no such change, amendment or
modification may be made without the  

5  

prior written consent of CRT. As to any claim,
cross-claim or counterclaim in any way relating to this Agreement, each party
waives the right to trial by jury.  

(d)              The
parties hereto consent to the jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal
court located in the City of New York for purposes of resolving any disputes
hereunder. 

(e)              Any
notice, consent or request to be given in connection with any of the terms or
provisions of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be sent by express
mail or similar private courier service, by certified mail (return receipt
requested), by hand delivery or by facsimile transmission: 

If to
the Trustee, to:  

Continental Stock
Transfer 
  Trust Company 
17 Battery Place 
New York, New York 10004 
Attn:  Steven G. Nelson 
Fax No.:  (212) 509-5150  

If to
the Company, to:  

Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation 
900 Third Avenue, 33 rd  Floor 
New York, New York 10022 
Attn:  Joel R. Jacks, Chairman 
Fax No.:  (212) 371-7254  

in
either case with a copy to:  

CRT Capital Group LLC 
262 Harbor Drive 
Stamford, CT  06902 
Attn:  Christopher Chase, Managing
Director 
Fax No.: (203) 569-6890  

(f)               This
Agreement may not be assigned by the Trustee without the prior written consent
of the Company and CRT. 

(g)              Each
of the Trustee and the Company hereby represents that it has the full right and
power and has been duly authorized to enter into this Agreement and to perform
its respective obligations as contemplated hereunder. The Trustee acknowledges
and agrees that it shall not make any claims or proceed against the Trust
Account, including by way of set-off, and shall not be entitled to any funds in
the Trust Account under any circumstance. 

(h)              The
Trustee hereby consents to the inclusion of Continental Stock Transfer  
Trust Company in the Registration Statement and other materials relating to the
IPO. 

6  

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed this Investment Management
Trust Agreement as of the date first written above.  

CONTINENTAL
  STOCK TRANSFER  

TRUST COMPANY, as Trustee  

By:  

/s/
  STEVEN NELSON  

Name:
  Steven Nelson  

Title:
  Chairman  

FEDERAL
  SERVICES ACQUISITION  
  CORPORATION  

By:  

/s/
  JOEL R. JACKS  

Name:
  Joel R. Jacks  

Title:
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

7  

EXHIBIT A  

[Letterhead
of Company] 
[Insert date]  

Continental Stock Transfer 
  Trust Company 
17 Battery Place 
New York, New York 10004 
Attn:  Steven Nelson  

Re:  Trust
Account No. Termination Letter  

Gentlemen:  

Pursuant
to the Investment Management Trust Agreement between Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation ( Company ) and Continental Stock Transfer   Trust
Company ( Trustee ), dated as of October 19, 2005 ( Trust Agreement ), this is
to advise you that the Company has entered into an agreement ( Business
Agreement ) with                     ( Target
Business ) to consummate a business combination with Target Business ( Business
Combination ) on or about [insert date]. The Company shall notify you at least two
business days in advance of the actual date of the consummation of the Business
Combination ( Consummation Date ).  

Pursuant
to Section 2(e) of the Trust Agreement, we are providing you with [an
affidavit] [certificate of                  ],
which verifies the vote of the Company s stockholders in connection with the
Business Combination. In accordance with the terms of the Trust Agreement, we
hereby authorize you to commence liquidation of the Trust Account to the effect
that, on the Consummation Date, all of the funds held in the Trust Account will
be immediately available for transfer to the account or accounts that the
Company shall direct on the Consummation Date.  

On the
Consummation Date (i) counsel for the Company shall deliver to you written notification
that (a) the Business Combination has been consummated and (b) if applicable,
the provisions of Section 11-51-302(6) and Rule 51-3.4 of the Colorado Statute
have been met, and (ii) the Company shall deliver to you written instructions
with respect to the transfer of the funds held in the Trust Account ( Instruction
Letter ). You are hereby directed and authorized to transfer the funds held in
the Trust Account immediately upon your receipt of the counsel s letter and the
Instruction Letter, in accordance with the terms of the Instruction Letter. In
the event that certain deposits held in the Trust Account may not be liquidated
by the Consummation Date without penalty, you will notify the Company of the
same and the Company shall direct you as to whether such funds should remain in
the Trust Account and be distributed after the Consummation Date to the Company.
Upon the distribution of all the funds in the Trust Account pursuant to the
terms hereof, the Trust Agreement shall be terminated and the Trust Account
closed.  

A-1  

In the
event that the Business Combination is not consummated on the Consummation Date
described in the notice thereof and we have not notified you on or before the
original Consummation Date of a new Consummation Date, then the funds held in
the Trust Account shall be reinvested as provided in the Trust Agreement on the
business day immediately following the Consummation Date as set forth in the
notice.  

Very
  truly yours,  

FEDERAL
  SERVICES ACQUISITION  
  CORPORATION  

By:  

By:  

A-2  

EXHIBIT B  

(Letterhead
of Company) 
(Insert date)  

Continental Stock Transfer 
  Trust Company 
17 Battery Place 
New York, New York 10004 
Attn:  Steven Nelson  

Re:  Trust
Account No. Termination Letter  

Gentlemen:  

Pursuant
to the Investment Management Trust Agreement between Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation ( Company ) and Continental Stock Transfer   Trust Company ( Trustee ),
dated as of October 19, 2005 ( Trust Agreement ), this is to advise you that
the Board of Directors of the Company has voted to dissolve and liquidate the
Trust Account. Attached hereto is a copy of the minutes of the meeting of the
Board of Directors of the Company relating thereto, certified by the Secretary
of the Company as true and correct and in full force and effect.  

In
accordance with the terms of the Trust Agreement, we hereby (a) certify to you
that, if applicable, the provisions of Section 11-51-302(6) and Rule 51-3.4 of
the Colorado Statute have been met and (b) authorize you, to commence
liquidation of the Trust Account. In connection with this liquidation, you are
hereby authorized to establish a record date for the purposes of determining
the stockholders of record entitled to receive their per share portion of the
Trust Account. The record date shall be within ten (10) days of the liquidation
date, or as soon thereafter as is practicable. You will notify the Company in
writing as to when all of the funds in the Trust Account will be available for
immediate transfer ( Transfer Date ) in accordance with the terms of the Trust
Agreement and the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
Company. You shall commence distribution of such funds in accordance with the
terms of the Trust Agreement and the Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of the Company and you shall oversee the distribution of the
funds. Upon the payment of all the funds in the Trust Account, the Trust
Agreement shall be terminated.  

Very
  truly yours,  

FEDERAL
  SERVICES ACQUISITION  
  CORPORATION  

By:  

By:  

B-1  

EXHIBIT
C  

C-1  

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.14>
 15
 a06-7939_1ex10d14.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.14   

REGISTRATION
RIGHTS AGREEMENT   

THIS REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (this  Agreement )
is entered into as of the 19 th  day of October, 2005, by and among
Federal Services Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ),
and the undersigned parties listed under Investors on the signature
page hereto (each, an  Investor  and collectively, the  Investors ).  

WHEREAS, the Investors currently hold all of the
issued and outstanding securities of the Company;  

WHEREAS, the Investors and the Company desire to
enter into this Agreement to provide the Investors with certain rights relating
to the registration of shares of Common Stock held by them;  

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual
covenants and agreements set forth herein, and for other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged,
the parties hereto agree as follows:  

1.                DEFINITIONS.  The following capitalized
terms used herein have the following meanings: 

Agreement   means this Agreement, as amended,
restated, supplemented, or otherwise modified from time to time.  

Commission   means the Securities and
Exchange Commission, or any other federal agency then administering the
Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  

Common Stock   means the common stock, par
value $0.0001 per share, of the Company.  

Company   is defined in the preamble to this
Agreement.  

Demand Registration   is defined in
Section 2.1.1.  

Demanding Holder   is defined in
Section 2.1.1.  

Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission
promulgated thereunder, all as the same shall be in effect at the time.  

Form S-3   is defined in
Section 2.3.  

Indemnified Party   is defined in
Section 4.3.  

Indemnifying Party   is defined in
Section 4.3.  

Investor   is defined in the preamble to this
Agreement.  

Investor Indemnified Party   is defined in
Section 4.1.  

Maximum Number of Shares   is defined in
Section 2.1.4.  

Notices   is defined in Section 6.3.  

Piggy-Back Registration   is defined in
Section 2.2.1.  

Register ,    registered   and   registration  
mean a registration effected by preparing and filing a registration statement
or similar document in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Act,
and the applicable rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and such
registration statement becoming effective.  

Registrable Securities   mean all of the
shares of Common Stock owned or held by Investors.  Registrable Securities
include any warrants, shares of capital stock or other securities of the
Company issued as a dividend or other distribution with respect to or in
exchange for or in replacement of such shares of Common Stock.  As to any
particular Registrable Securities, such securities shall cease to be
Registrable Securities when:  (a) a Registration Statement with
respect to the sale of such securities shall have become effective under the
Securities Act and such securities shall have been sold, transferred, disposed
of or exchanged in accordance with such Registration Statement; (b) such
securities shall have been otherwise transferred, new certificates for them not
bearing a legend restricting further transfer shall have been delivered by the
Company and subsequent public distribution of them shall not require
registration under the Securities Act; (c) such securities shall have
ceased to be outstanding, or (d) the Securities and Exchange Commission
makes a definitive determination to the Company that the Registrable Securities
are salable under Rule 144(k).  

Registration Statement   means a registration
statement filed by the Company with the Commission in compliance with the
Securities Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder for a
public offering and sale of Common Stock (other than a registration statement
on Form S-4 or Form S-8, or their successors, or any registration
statement covering only securities proposed to be issued in exchange for
securities or assets of another entity).  

Release Date   means the date on which shares
of Common Stock are disbursed from escrow pursuant to Section 3 of that
certain Stock Escrow Agreement dated as of October 19, 2005 by and among the
parties hereto and Continental Stock Transfer   Trust Company.  

Securities Act   means the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission
promulgated thereunder, all as the same shall be in effect at the time.  

Underwriter   means a securities dealer who
purchases any Registrable Securities as principal in an underwritten offering
and not as part of such dealer s market-making activities.  

2.                REGISTRATION RIGHTS. 

2.1.              Demand Registration . 

2.1.1.           Request for Registration .  At any time and from time to time on
or after the Release Date, the holders of a majority-in-interest of the
Registrable Securities held by the Investors or the transferees of the
Investors, may make a written demand for registration under the Securities Act
of all or part of their Registrable Securities (a   Demand Registration  ). 
Any demand for a Demand Registration shall specify the number of shares of
Registrable Securities proposed to be sold and the intended method(s) of
distribution thereof.  The Company will notify all holders of Registrable
Securities of the demand, and each holder of Registrable Securities who wishes
to include all or a portion of such holder s Registrable Securities in the
Demand Registration (each such holder including shares of Registrable
Securities in such registration, a   Demanding Holder  ) shall so notify
the Company within fifteen (15) days after the receipt by the holder of the
notice from the Company.  Upon any such request, the Demanding Holders
shall be entitled to have their Registrable Securities included in the Demand
Registration, subject to Section 2.1.4 and the provisos set forth in
Section 3.1.1.  The Company shall not be obligated to effect more
than an aggregate of two (2) Demand Registrations under this
Section 2.1.1 in respect of Registrable Securities. 

2.1.2.           Effective Registration .  A registration will not count as a
Demand Registration until the Registration Statement filed with the Commission
with respect to such Demand Registration has been declared effective and the
Company has complied with all of its obligations under this Agreement with
respect thereto;  provided, however , that if, after such Registration
Statement has been declared effective, the offering of Registrable Securities
pursuant to a Demand Registration is interfered with by any stop order or
injunction of the Commission or any other governmental agency or court, the
Registration Statement with respect to such Demand Registration will be deemed
not to have been declared effective, unless and until, (i) such stop order
or injunction is removed, rescinded or otherwise terminated, and (ii) a
majority-in-interest of the Demanding Holders thereafter elect to continue the
offering;  provided ,  further , that the Company shall not be
obligated to file a second Registration Statement until a Registration
Statement that has been filed is counted as a Demand Registration or is
terminated. 

2.1.3.           Underwritten Offering .  If a majority-in-interest of the
Demanding Holders so elect and such holders so advise the Company as part of
their written demand for a Demand Registration, the offering of such Registrable
Securities pursuant to such Demand Registration shall be in the form of an
underwritten offering.  In such event, the right of any holder to include
its Registrable Securities in such registration shall be conditioned upon such
holder s participation in such underwriting and the inclusion of such holder s
Registrable Securities in the underwriting to the extent provided herein. 
All Demanding Holders proposing to distribute their securities through such
underwriting shall enter into an underwriting agreement in customary form with
the Underwriter or Underwriters selected for such underwriting by a
majority-in-interest of the holders initiating the Demand Registration. 

2.1.4.           Reduction of Offering .  If the managing Underwriter or
Underwriters for a Demand Registration that is to be an underwritten offering
advises the Company and the Demanding Holders in writing that the dollar amount
or number of shares of Registrable 

Securities
which the Demanding Holders desire to sell, taken together with all other
shares of Common Stock or other securities which the Company desires to sell
and the shares of Common Stock, if any, as to which registration has been
requested pursuant to written contractual piggy-back registration rights held
by other shareholders of the Company who desire to sell, exceeds the maximum
dollar amount or maximum number of shares that can be sold in such offering
without adversely affecting the proposed offering price, the timing, the
distribution method, or the probability of success of such offering, (such
maximum dollar amount or maximum number of shares, as applicable, the   Maximum
Number of Shares  ), then the Company shall include in such registration:
(i) first, the Registrable Securities as to which Demand Registration has
been requested by the Demanding Holders ( pro rata  in accordance with the
number of shares of Registrable Securities which such Demanding Holder has
requested be included in such registration, regardless of the number of shares
of Registrable Securities held by each Demanding Holder) that can be sold
without exceeding the Maximum Number of Shares; (ii) second, to the extent
that the Maximum Number of Shares has not been reached under the foregoing
clause (i), the shares of Common Stock or other securities that the Company
desires to sell that can be sold without exceeding the Maximum Number of
Shares; (iii) third, to the extent that the Maximum Number of Shares has
not been reached under the foregoing clauses (i) and (ii), the shares of
Common Stock for the account of other persons that the Company is obligated to
register pursuant to written contractual arrangements with such persons and
that can be sold without exceeding the Maximum Number of Shares; and
(v) fourth, to the extent that the Maximum Number of Shares have not been
reached under the foregoing clauses (1), (ii), and (iii), the shares of Common
Stock that other shareholders desire to sell that can be sold without exceeding
the Maximum Number of Shares.  

2.1.5.           Withdrawal .  If a majority-in-interest of the Demanding Holders disapprove
of the terms of any underwriting or are not entitled to include all of their
Registrable Securities in any offering, such majority-in-interest of the
Demanding Holders may elect to withdraw from such offering by giving written notice
to the Company and the Underwriter or Underwriters of their request to withdraw
prior to the effectiveness of the Registration Statement filed with the
Commission with respect to such Demand Registration.  If the
majority-in-interest of the Demanding Holders withdraws from a proposed
offering relating to a Demand Registration, then such registration shall not
count as a Demand Registration provided for in Section 2.1.1. 

2.2.              Piggy-Back Registration . 

2.2.1.           Piggy-Back Rights .  If at anytime on or after the Release
Date the Company proposes to file a Registration Statement under the Securities
Act with respect to an offering of equity securities, or securities or other
obligations exercisable or exchangeable for, or convertible into, equity
securities, by the Company for its own account or for shareholders of the
Company for their account (or by the Company and by shareholders of the Company
including, without limitation, pursuant to Section 2.1), other than a
Registration Statement (i) filed in connection with any employee stock
option or other benefit plan, (ii) for an exchange offer or offering of
securities solely to the Company s existing shareholders, (iii) for an
offering of debt that is convertible into equity securities of the Company or
(iv) for a dividend reinvestment plan, then the Company shall (x) give
written notice of such proposed filing to the holders of Registrable Securities
as soon as practicable but in no event less than twenty (20) days before the 

anticipated
filing date, which notice shall describe the amount and type of securities to
be included in such offering, the intended method(s) of distribution, and the
name of the proposed managing Underwriter or Underwriters, if any, of the
offering, and (y) offer to the holders of Registrable Securities in such notice
the opportunity to register the sale of such number of shares of Registrable
Securities as such holders may request in writing within fifteen (15) days
following receipt of such notice (a   Piggy-Back Registration  ). 
The Company shall cause such Registrable Securities to be included in such
registration and shall use its best efforts to cause the managing Underwriter
or Underwriters of a proposed underwritten offering to permit the Registrable
Securities requested to be included in a Piggy-Back Registration to be included
on the same terms and conditions as any similar securities of the Company and
to permit the sale or other disposition of such Registrable Securities in
accordance with the intended method(s) of distribution thereof.  All
holders of Registrable Securities proposing to distribute their securities
through a Piggy-Back Registration that involves an Underwriter or Underwriters
shall enter into an underwriting agreement in customary form with the Underwriter
or Underwriters selected for such Piggy-Back Registration.  

2.2.2.           Reduction of Offering .  If the managing Underwriter or
Underwriters for a Piggy-Back Registration that is to be an underwritten
offering advises the Company and the holders of Registrable Securities in
writing that the dollar amount or number of shares of Common Stock which the
Company desires to sell, taken together with shares of Common Stock, if any, as
to which registration has been demanded pursuant to written contractual
arrangements with persons other than the holders of Registrable Securities
hereunder, the Registrable Securities as to which registration has been
requested under this Section 2.2, and the shares of Common Stock, if any,
as to which registration has been requested pursuant to the written contractual
piggy-back registration rights of other shareholders of the Company, exceeds
the Maximum Number of Shares, then the Company shall include in any such
registration: 

(i)               If the registration is undertaken for the
Company s account: (A) first, the shares of Common Stock or other
securities that the Company desires to sell that can be sold without exceeding
the Maximum Number of Shares; (B) second, to the extent that the Maximum
Number of Shares has not been reached under the foregoing clause (A), the
shares of Common Stock, if any, including the Registrable Securities, as to
which registration has been requested pursuant to written contractual
piggy-back registration rights of security holders (pro rata in accordance with
the number of shares of Common Stock which each such person has actually
requested to be included in such registration, regardless of the number of
shares of Common Stock with respect to which such persons have the right to
request such inclusion) that can be sold without exceeding the Maximum Number
of Shares; and 

(ii)              If the registration is a  demand 
registration undertaken at the demand of persons other than the holders of
Registrable Securities pursuant to written contractual arrangements with such
persons, (A) first, the shares of Common Stock for the account of the
demanding persons that can be sold without exceeding the Maximum Number of
Shares; (B) second, to the extent that the Maximum Number of Shares has
not been reached under the foregoing clause (A), the shares of Common Stock or
other securities that the Company desires to sell that can be sold without
exceeding the Maximum Number of Shares; and (C) third, to the extent that
the Maximum Number of Shares has not been reached under the foregoing clauses
(A) and (B), the Registrable Securities as to which registration has been 

requested
under this Section 2.2 (pro rata in accordance with the number of shares
of Registrable Securities held by each such holder); and (D) fourth, to
the extent that the Maximum Number of Shares has not been reached under the
foregoing clauses (A), (B) and (C), the shares of Common Stock, if any, as
to which registration has been requested pursuant to written contractual
piggy-back registration rights which other shareholders desire to sell that can
be sold without exceeding the Maximum Number of Shares.  

2.2.3.           Withdrawal .  Any holder of Registrable Securities may elect to withdraw such
holder s request for inclusion of Registrable Securities in any Piggy-Back
Registration by giving written notice to the Company of such request to
withdraw prior to the effectiveness of the Registration Statement.  The
Company may also elect to withdraw a registration statement at any time prior
to the effectiveness of the Registration Statement.  Notwithstanding any
such withdrawal, the Company shall bear all costs and expenses incurred by the
holders of Registrable Securities in connection with such Piggy-Back
Registration as provided in Section 3.3. 

2.3.              Registrations on Form S-3 .  The holders of Registrable Securities
may at any time and from time to time on or after the Release Date, request in
writing that the Company register the resale of any or all of such Registrable
Securities on Form S-3 or any similar short-form registration which may be
available at such time (  Form S-3    provided ,  however ,
that the Company shall not be obligated to effect such request through an
underwritten offering.  Upon receipt of such written request, the Company
will promptly give written notice of the proposed registration to all other
holders of Registrable Securities, and, as soon as practicable thereafter,
effect the registration of all or such portion of such holder s or holders 
Registrable Securities as are specified in such request, together with all or such
portion of the Registrable Securities of any other holder or holders joining in
such request as are specified in a written request given within fifteen (15)
days after receipt of such written notice from the Company;  provided ,  however ,
that the Company shall not be obligated to effect any such registration
pursuant to this Section 2.3: (i) if Form S-3 is not available
for such offering; or (ii) if the holders of the Registrable Securities,
together with the holders of any other securities of the Company entitled to
inclusion in such registration, propose to sell Registrable Securities and such
other securities (if any) at any aggregate price to the public of less than
$500,000.  Registrations effected pursuant to this Section 2.3 shall
not be counted as Demand Registrations effected pursuant to Section 2.1. 

3.                REGISTRATION PROCEDURES. 

3.1.              Filings; Information .  Whenever the Company is required to
effect the registration of any Registrable Securities pursuant to
Section 2, the Company shall use its best efforts to effect the
registration and sale of such Registrable Securities in accordance with the
intended method (s) of distribution thereof as expeditiously as practicable,
and in connection with any such request: 

3.1.1.           Filing Registration Statement .  The Company shall, as expeditiously
as possible and in any event within sixty (60) days after receipt of a request
for a Demand Registration pursuant to Section 2.1, prepare and file with
the Commission a Registration Statement on any form for which the Company then
qualifies or which counsel for the Company shall deem appropriate and which
form shall be available for the sale of all Registrable Securities 

to
be registered thereunder in accordance with the intended method(s) of
distribution thereof, and shall use its best efforts to cause such Registration
Statement to become and remain effective for the period required by
Section 3.1.3;  provided ,  however , that the Company shall
have the right to defer any Demand Registration for up to thirty (30) days, and
any Piggy-Back Registration for such period as may be applicable to deferment
of any demand registration to which such Piggy-Back Registration relates, in
each case if the Company shall furnish to the holders a certificate signed by
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company stating that, in the good faith
judgment of the Board of Directors of the Company, it would be materially
detrimental to the Company and its shareholders for such Registration Statement
to be effected at such time;  provided    further , however, that the
Company shall not have the right to exercise the right set forth in the
immediately preceding proviso more than once in any 365-day period in respect
of a Demand Registration hereunder.  

3.1.2            Copies .  The Company shall, prior to filing a Registration Statement or
prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, furnish without charge to
the holders of Registrable Securities included in such registration, and such
holders  legal counsel, copies of such Registration Statement as proposed to be
filed, each amendment and supplement to such Registration Statement (in each
case including all exhibits thereto and documents incorporated by reference
therein), the prospectus included in such Registration Statement (including
each preliminary prospectus), and such other documents as the holders of
Registrable Securities included in such registration or legal counsel for any
such holders may request in order to facilitate the disposition of the
Registrable Securities owned by such holders. 

3.1.3.           Amendments and Supplements .  The Company shall prepare and file
with the Commission such amendments, including post-effective amendments, and
supplements to such Registration Statement and the prospectus used in
connection therewith as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement
effective and in compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act until all
Registrable Securities and other securities covered by such Registration
Statement have been disposed of in accordance with the intended method(s) of
distribution set forth in such Registration Statement (which period shall not
exceed the sum of one hundred eighty (180) days plus any period during which
any such disposition is interfered with by any stop order or injunction of the
Commission or any governmental agency or court) or such securities have been
withdrawn. 

3.1.4.           Notification .  After the filing of a Registration
Statement, the Company shall promptly, and in no event more than two,
(2) business days after such filing, notify the holders of Registrable
Securities included in such Registration Statement of such filing, and shall
further notify such holders promptly and confirm such advice in writing in all
events within two (2) business days of the occurrence of any of the following:
(i) when such Registration Statement becomes effective; (ii) when any
post-effective amendment to such Registration Statement becomes effective;
(iii) the issuance or threatened issuance by the Commission of any stop
order (and the Company shall take all actions required to prevent the entry of
such stop order or to remove it if entered); and (iv) any request by the
Commission for any amendment or supplement to such Registration Statement or
any prospectus relating thereto or for additional information or of the
occurrence of an event requiring the preparation of a supplement or amendment
to such prospectus so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the
securities covered by such Registration Statement, such prospectus will not
contain an untrue statement of a material fact or 

omit
to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make
the statements therein not misleading, and promptly make available to the
holders of Registrable Securities included in such Registration Statement any
such supplement or amendment; except that before filing with the Commission a
Registration Statement or prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto,
including documents incorporated by reference, the Company shall furnish to the
holders of Registrable Securities included in such Registration Statement and
to the legal counsel for any such holders, copies of all such documents
proposed to be filed sufficiently in advance of filing to provide such holders
and legal counsel with a reasonable opportunity to review such documents and
comment thereon, and the Company shall not file any Registration Statement or
prospectus or amendment or supplement thereto, including documents incorporated
by reference, to which such holders or their legal counsel shall object.  

3.1.5.           State Securities Laws Compliance .  The Company shall use its best
efforts to (i) register or qualify the Registrable Securities covered by
the Registration Statement under such securities or  blue sky laws of such
jurisdictions in the United States as the holders of Registrable Securities
included in such Registration Statement (in light of their intended plan of
distribution) may request and (ii) take such action necessary to cause
such Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be
registered with or approved by such other Governmental Authorities as may be
necessary by virtue of the business and operations of the Company and do any
and all other acts and things that may be necessary or advisable to enable the holders
of Registrable Securities included in such Registration Statement to consummate
the disposition of such Registrable Securities in such jurisdictions;  provided ,
 however , that the Company shall not be required to qualify generally to
do business in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to
qualify but for this paragraph (e) or subject itself to taxation in any
such jurisdiction. 

3.1.6.           Agreements for Disposition .  The Company shall enter into
customary agreements (including, if applicable, an underwriting agreement in
customary form) and take such other actions as are reasonably required in order
to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities. 
The representations, warranties and covenants of the Company in any
underwriting agreement which are made to or for the benefit of any
Underwriters, to the extent applicable, shall also be made to and for the
benefit of the holders of Registrable Securities included in such registration
statement.  No holder of Registrable Securities included in such
registration statement shall be required to make any representations or
warranties in the underwriting agreement except as reasonably requested by the
Company and, if applicable, with respect to such holder s organization, good
standing, authority, title to Registrable Securities, lack of conflict of such
sale with such holder s material agreements and organizational documents, and
with respect to written information relating to such holder that such holder
has furnished in writing expressly for inclusion in such Registration
Statement.  Holders of Registrable Securities shall agree to such
covenants and indemnification and contribution obligations for selling
stockholders as are customarily contained in agreements of that type. 
Further, such holders shall cooperate fully in the preparation of the
registration statement and other documents relating to any offering in which
they include securities pursuant to Section 2 hereof.  Each holder
shall also furnish to the Company such information regarding itself, the
Registrable Securities held by such holder, and the intended method of
disposition of such securities as shall be reasonably required to effect the
registration of the Registrable Securities. 

3.1.7.           Cooperation .  The principal executive officer of the Company, the principal
financial officer of the Company, the principal accounting officer of the
Company and all other officers and members of the management of the Company
shall cooperate fully in any offering of Registrable Securities hereunder,
which cooperation shall include, without limitation, the preparation of the
Registration Statement with respect to such offering and all other offering
materials and related documents, and participation in meetings with Underwriters,
attorneys, accountants and potential investors. 

3.1.8.           Records .  The Company shall make available for inspection by the holders
of Registrable Securities included in such Registration Statement, any
Underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such registration
statement and any attorney, accountant or other professional retained by any
holder of Registrable Securities included in such Registration Statement or any
Underwriter, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and
properties of the Company, as shall be necessary to enable them to exercise
their due diligence responsibility, and cause the Company s officers, directors
and employees to supply all information requested by any of them in connection
with such Registration Statement. 

3.1.9.           Opinions and Comfort Letters .  The Company shall furnish to each
holder of Registrable Securities included in any Registration Statement a
signed counterpart, addressed to such holder, of (i) any opinion of
counsel to the Company delivered to any Underwriter and (ii) any comfort
letter from the Company s independent public accountants delivered to any
Underwriter.  In the event no legal opinion is delivered to any
Underwriter, the Company shall furnish to each holder of Registrable Securities
included in such Registration Statement, at any time that such holder elects to
use a prospectus, an opinion of counsel to the Company to the effect that the
Registration Statement containing such prospectus has been declared effective
and that no stop order is in effect. 

3.1.10.         Earnings Statement .  The Company shall comply with all
applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and the Securities Act
and make available to its shareholders, as soon as practicable, an earnings
statement covering a period of twelve (12) months, beginning within three
(3) months after the effective date of the registration statement, which
earnings statement shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of
the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder. 

3.1.11.         Listing .  The Company shall use its best efforts to cause all Registrable
Securities included in any registration to be listed on such exchanges or
otherwise designated for trading in the same manner as similar securities
issued by the Company are then listed or designated or, if no such similar
securities are then listed or designated, in a manner satisfactory to the
holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities included in such
registration. 

3.2.              Obligation to Suspend Distribution .  Upon receipt of any notice from the
Company of the happening of any event of the kind described in
Section 3.1.4(iv), or, in the case of a resale registration on
Form S-3 pursuant to Section 2.3 hereof, upon any suspension by the
Company, pursuant to a written insider trading compliance program adopted by
the Company s Board of Directors, of the ability of all  insiders  covered by
such program to transact in the Company s securities because of the existence
of material non-public information and such holder s status would be as an  insider 
under such program, each holder of Registrable 

Securities
included in any registration shall immediately discontinue disposition of such
Registrable Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement covering such
Registrable Securities until such holder receives the supplemented or amended
prospectus contemplated by Section 3.1.4(iv) or the restriction on
the ability of  insiders  to transact in the Company s securities is removed or
is inapplicable to such holder, as applicable, and, if so directed by the
Company, each such holder will deliver to the Company all copies, other than
permanent file copies then in such holder s possession, of the most recent
prospectus covering such Registrable Securities at the time of receipt of such
notice.  

3.3.              Registration Expenses .  The Company shall bear all costs and
expenses incurred in connection with any Demand Registration pursuant to
Section 2.1, any Piggy-Back Registration pursuant to Section 2.2, and
any registration on Form S-3 effected pursuant to Section 2.3, and
all expenses incurred in performing or complying with its other obligations
under this Agreement, whether or not the Registration Statement becomes
effective, including, without limitation; (i) all registration and filing
fees; (ii) fees and expenses of compliance with securities or  blue sky 
laws (including fees and disbursements of counsel in connection with blue sky
qualifications of the Registrable Securities); (iii) printing expenses;
(iv) the Company s internal expenses (including, without limitation, all
salaries and expenses of its officers and employees); (v) the fees and
expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Registrable Securities
as required by Section 3.1.11; (vi) National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc. fees; (vii) fees and disbursements of
counsel for the Company and fees and expenses for independent certified public
accountants retained by the Company (including the expenses or costs associated
with the delivery of any opinions or comfort letters requested pursuant to
Section 3.1.9); (viii) the fees and expenses of any special experts
retained by the Company in connection with such registration and (ix) the
fees and expenses of one legal counsel selected by the holders of a majority-in-interest
of the Registrable Securities included in such registration.  The Company
shall have no obligation to pay any underwriting discounts or selling
commissions or transfer taxes, if any, attributable to the Registrable
Securities being sold by the holders thereof, which underwriting discounts or
selling commissions or transfer taxes, if any, shall be borne by such
holders.  Additionally, in an underwritten offering, all selling
shareholders and the Company shall bear the expenses of the underwriter pro
rata in proportion to the respective amount of shares each is selling in such
offering. 

3.4.              Information .  The holders of Registrable Securities shall provide such
information as may reasonably be requested by the Company, or the managing
Underwriter, if any, in connection with the preparation of any Registration
Statement, including amendments and supplements thereto, in order to effect the
registration of any Registrable Securities under the Securities Act pursuant to
Section 2 and in connection with the Company s obligation to comply with
federal and applicable state securities laws. 

4.                INDEMNIFICATION AND CONTRIBUTION. 

4.1.              Indemnification by the Company .  The Company agrees to indemnify and
hold harmless each Investor and each other holder of Registrable Securities,
and each of their respective officers, employees, affiliates, directors,
partners, members and agents, and each person, if any, who controls an Investor
and each other holder of Registrable Securities (within the meaning of
Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act)
(each, an 

Investor
Indemnified Party  ), from and against any expenses, losses, judgments,
claims, damages or liabilities, whether joint or several, arising out of or
based upon any untrue statement (or allegedly untrue statement) of a material
fact contained in any Registration Statement under which the sale of such
Registrable Securities was registered under the Securities Act, any preliminary
prospectus, final prospectus or summary prospectus contained in the
Registration Statement, or any amendment or supplement to such Registration
Statement, or arising out of or based upon any omission (or alleged omission)
to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the
statements therein not misleading, or any violation by the Company of the
Securities Act or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder applicable
to the Company and relating to action or inaction required of the Company in
connection with any such registration; and the Company shall promptly reimburse
the Investor Indemnified Party for any legal and any other expenses reasonably
incurred by such Investor Indemnified Party in connection with investigating
and defending any such expense, loss, judgment, claim, damage, liability or
action;  provided ,  however , that the Company will not be liable in
any such case to the extent that any such expense, loss, claim, damage or
liability arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or allegedly
untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in such Registration
Statement, preliminary prospectus, final prospectus, or summary prospectus, or
any such amendment or supplement, in reliance upon and in conformity with
information furnished to the Company, in writing, by such selling holder
expressly for use therein.  The Company also shall indemnify any
Underwriter of the Registrable Securities, their officers, affiliates,
directors, partners, members and agents and each person who controls such
Underwriter on substantially the same basis as that of the indemnification
provided above in this Section 4.1.  

4.2.              Indemnification by Holders of Registrable
Securities .  Each
selling holder of Registrable Securities will, in the event that any
registration is being effected under the Securities Act pursuant to this
Agreement of any Registrable Securities held by such selling holder, indemnify
and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and officers and each
underwriter (if any), and each other person, if any, who controls such selling
holder or such underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act, against
any losses, claims, judgments, damages or liabilities, whether joint or
several, insofar as such losses, claims, judgments, damages or liabilities (or
actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement
or allegedly untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration
Statement under which the sale of such Registrable Securities was registered
under the Securities Act, any preliminary prospectus, final prospectus or
summary prospectus contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment or
supplement to the Registration Statement, or arise out of or are based upon any
omission or the alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated
therein or necessary to make the statement therein not misleading, if the
statement or omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with
information furnished in writing to the Company by such selling holder
expressly for use therein, and shall reimburse the Company, its directors and
officers, and each such controlling person for any legal or other expenses
reasonably incurred by any of them in connection with investigation or
defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action.  Each selling
holder s indemnification obligations hereunder shall be several and not joint
and shall be limited to the amount of any net proceeds (after payment of all
underwriting fees, discounts, commissions and taxes) actually received by such
selling holder from the sale of Registrable Securities which gave rise to such
indemnification obligation. 

4.3.              Conduct of Indemnification Proceedings .  Promptly after receipt by any person
of any notice of any loss, claim, damage or liability or any action in respect
of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to Section 4.1 or 4.2, such
person (the   Indemnified Party  ) shall, if a claim in respect thereof is
to be made against any other person for indemnification hereunder, notify such
other person (the   Indemnifying Party  ) in writing of the loss, claim,
judgment, damage, liability or action;  provided ,  however , that
the failure by the Indemnified Party to notify the Indemnifying Party shall not
relieve the Indemnifying Party from any liability which the Indemnifying Party
may have to such indemnified Party hereunder, except and solely to the extent
the Indemnifying Party is actually prejudiced by such failure.  If the
Indemnified Party is seeking indemnification with respect to any claim or action
brought against the Indemnified Party, then the Indemnifying Party shall be
entitled to participate in such claim or action, and, to the extent that it
wishes, jointly with all other Indemnifying Parties, to assume control of the
defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified
Party.  After notice from the Indemnifying Party to the Indemnified Party
of its election to assume control of the defense of such claim or action, the
Indemnifying Party shall not be liable to the Indemnified Party for any legal
or other expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnified Party in connection
with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation;  provided ,
 however , that in any action in which both the Indemnified Party and the
Indemnifying Party are named as defendants, the Indemnified Party shall have
the right to employ separate counsel (but no more than one such separate
counsel) to represent the Indemnified Party and its controlling persons who may
be subject to liability arising out of any claim in respect of which indemnity
may be sought by the Indemnified Party against the Indemnifying Party, with the
fees and expenses of such counsel to be paid by such Indemnifying Party if,
based upon the written opinion of counsel of such Indemnified Party,
representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due
to actual or potential differing interests between them.  No Indemnifying
Party shall, without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party,
consent to entry of judgment or effect any settlement of any claim or pending
or threatened proceeding in respect of which the Indemnified Party is or could
have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such
Indemnified Party, unless such judgment or settlement includes an unconditional
release of such Indemnified Party from all liability arising out of such claim
or proceeding. 

4.4.              Contribution . 

4.4.1.          If the indemnification provided for in the
foregoing Sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 is unavailable to any Indemnified Party in
respect of any loss, claim, damage, liability or action referred to herein,
then each such Indemnifying Party, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified
Party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Party
as a result of such loss, claim, damage, liability or action in such proportion
as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Indemnified Parties and
the Indemnifying Parties in connection with the actions or omissions which
resulted in such loss, claim, damage, liability or action, as well as any other
relevant equitable considerations.  The relative fault of any Indemnified
Party and any Indemnifying Party shall be determined by reference to, among
other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact
or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to
information supplied by such Indemnified Party or such Indemnifying Party and
the parties  relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity
to correct or prevent such statement or omission. 

4.4.2.          The parties hereto agree that it would not be
just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 4.4 were
determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which
does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the
immediately preceding Section 4.4.1.  The amount paid or payable by
an Indemnified Party as a result of any loss, claim, damage, liability or
action referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to
include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other
expenses incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or
defending any such action or claim.  Notwithstanding the provisions of
this Section 4.4, no holder of Registrable Securities shall be required to
contribute any amount in excess of the dollar amount of the net proceeds (after
payment of all underwriting fees, discounts, commissions and taxes) actually
received by such holder from the sale of Registrable Securities which gave rise
to such contribution obligation.  No person guilty of fraudulent
misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the
Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not
guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. 

5.                UNDERWRITING AND DISTRIBUTION. 

5.1.              Rule 144 .  The Company covenants that it shall
file any reports required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the
Exchange Act and shall take such further action as the holders of Registrable
Securities may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time
to enable such holders to sell Registrable Securities without registration
under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by
Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such Rules may be amended from
time to time, or any similar Rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the
Commission. 

6.                MISCELLANEOUS. 

6.1.              Other Registration Rights .  The Company represents and warrants
that no person, other than a holder of the Registrable Securities, has any
right to require the Company to register any shares of the Company s capital
stock for sale or to include shares of the Company s capital stock in any
registration filed by the Company for the sale of shares of capital stock for
its own account or for the account of any other person. 

6.2.              Assignment; No Third Party Beneficiaries .  This Agreement and the rights, duties
and obligations of the Company hereunder may not be assigned or delegated by
the Company in whole or in part.  This Agreement and the rights, duties
and obligations of the holders of Registrable Securities hereunder may be
freely assigned or delegated by such holder of Registrable Securities in
conjunction with and to the extent of any transfer of Registrable Securities by
any such holder.  This Agreement and the provisions hereof shall be
binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of each of the parties and their
respective successors and the permitted assigns of the Investor or holder of
Registrable Securities or of any assignee of the Investor or holder of
Registrable Securities.  This Agreement is not intended to confer any
rights or benefits on any persons that are not party hereto other than as
expressly set forth in Article 4 and this Section 6.2. 

6.3.              Notices .  All notices, demands, requests, consents, approvals or other
communications (collectively,  Notices ) required or permitted to be given
hereunder or which 

are
given with respect to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
personally served, delivered by reputable air courier service with charges
prepaid, or transmitted by hand delivery, telegram, telex or facsimile,
addressed as set forth below, or to such other address as such party shall have
specified most recently by written notice.  Notice shall be deemed given
on the date of service or transmission if personally served or transmitted by
telegram, telex or facsimile, provided, that if such service or transmission is
not on a business day or is after normal business hours, then such notice shall
be deemed given on the next business day.  Notice otherwise sent as
provided herein shall be deemed given on the next business day following timely
delivery of such notice to a reputable air courier service with an order for
next-day delivery.  

To
the Company:  

Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation 
900 Third Avenue, 33 rd  Floor 
New York, New York  10022 
Attention:  Chairman  

with
a copy to:  

Dechert
LLP 
30 Rockefeller Plaza 
New York, New York  10112 
Attention:  Gerald Adler, Esq.  

To
an Investor, to:  

the
addresses listed on Exhibit A hereto  

6.4.              Severability .  This Agreement shall be deemed
severable, and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or provision
hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or of
any other term or provision hereof.  Furthermore, in lieu of any such
invalid or unenforceable term or provision, the parties hereto intend that
there shall be added as a part of this Agreement a provision as similar in
terms to such invalid or unenforceable provision as may be possible and be
valid and enforceable. 

6.5.              Counterparts .  This Agreement may be executed in
multiple counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of
which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument. 

6.6.              Entire Agreement .  This Agreement (including all
agreements entered into pursuant hereto and all certificates and instruments
delivered pursuant hereto and thereto) constitute the entire agreement of the
parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior and
contemporaneous agreements, representations, understandings, negotiations and
discussions between the parties, whether oral or written. 

6.7.              Modifications and Amendments .  No amendment modification or
termination of this Agreement shall be binding upon any party unless executed
in writing by such party, 

6.8.              Titles and Headings .  Titles and headings of sections of
this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction
of any provision of this Agreement. 

6.9.              Waivers and Extensions .  Any party to this Agreement may waive
any right, breach or default which such party has the right to waive, provided
that such waiver will not be effective against the waiving party unless it is
in writing, is signed by such party, and specifically refers to this
Agreement.  Waivers may be made in advance or after the right waived has
arisen or the breach or default waived has occurred.  Any waiver may be conditional
No waiver of any breach of any agreement or provision herein contained shall be
deemed a waiver of any preceding or succeeding breach thereof nor of any other
agreement or provision herein contained.  No waiver or extension of time
for performance of any obligations or acts shall be deemed a waiver or
extension of the time for performance of any other obligations or acts. 

6.10.            Remedies Cumulative .  In the event that the Company fails
to observe or perform any covenant or agreement to be observed or performed
under this Agreement, the Investor or any other holder of Registrable
Securities may proceed to protect and enforce its rights by suit in equity or
action at law, whether for specific performance of any term contained in this
Agreement or for an injunction against the breach of any such term or in aid of
the exercise of any power granted in this Agreement or to enforce any other
legal or equitable right, or to take any one or more of such actions, without
being required to post a bond.  None of the rights, powers or remedies
conferred under this Agreement shall be mutually exclusive, and each such
right, power or remedy shall be cumulative and in addition to any other right,
power or remedy, whether conferred by this Agreement or now or hereafter
available at law, in equity, by statute or otherwise. 

6.11.            Governing Law .  This Agreement shall be governed by,
interpreted under, and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the
State of Delaware applicable to agreements made and to be performed within the
State of Delaware, without giving effect to any choice-of-law provisions
thereof that would compel the application of the substantive laws of any other
jurisdiction. 

6.12.            Waiver of Trial by Jury .  Each party hereby irrevocably and
unconditionally waives the right to a trial by jury in any action, suit,
counterclaim or other proceeding (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise)
arising out of, connected with or relating to this Agreement, the transactions
contemplated hereby, or the actions of the Investor in the negotiation,
administration, performance or enforcement hereof. 

[REMAINDER OF PAGE
INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this
Registration Rights Agreement to be executed and delivered by their duly authorized
representatives as of the date first written above.  

FEDERAL
  SERVICES ACQUISITION  

CORPORATION  

A
  Delaware Corporation  

By:  

/s/
  JOEL R. JACKS  

Name:
  Joel R. Jacks  

Title:
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

INVESTORS:  

FSAC
  PARTNERS, LLC  

/s/
  JOEL R. JACKS  

By:
  Joel R. Jacks, on behalf of FSAC Partners, LLC  

Title:
  Class A Member  

/s/
  JOEL R. JACKS  

Joel
  R. Jacks  

/s/
  PETER M. SCHULTE  

Peter
  M. Schulte  

/s/
  EDWARD H. BERSOFF  

Edward
  L. Bersoff  

/s/
  ARTHUR L. MONEY  

Arthur
  M. Money  

</EX-10.14>

<EX-10.15.1>
 16
 a06-7939_1ex10d15d1.htm
 EX-10.15.1

Exhibit 10.15.1   

October 19, 2005  

CRT Capital Group LLC  

  262 Harbor Drive  

  Stanford, CT 06902  

Re:          Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation  

Ladies and Gentlemen:  

This letter agreement
(this  Warrant Purchase Letter ) is being delivered to you in connection with
the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-124638) (as may
be amended and supplemented from time to time, the  Registration Statement )
that was initially filed by Federal Services Acquisition Corporation, a
Delaware corporation (the  Company ), with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the  SEC ) on May 4, 2005, which relates to an underwritten
initial public offering (the  IPO ) of the Company s units (the  Units ), each
comprised of one share of the Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per
share (the  Common Stock ), and two warrants, each of which are exercisable for
one share of Common Stock (each, a  Warrant ).  Capitalized terms used but
not otherwise defined herein shall have their respective meanings set forth on
Schedule 1 hereto.  

For good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged,
the undersigned hereby agrees as follows:  

(1) Prior to the execution
of the underwriting agreement between the Company and CRT Capital Group LLC (the
 Underwriter ), the undersigned shall duly execute and deliver an irrevocable
order to purchase Warrants (the  Order ) to the Underwriter, in the form
attached hereto as Schedule 2, with such terms and conditions as are
consistent with the terms and conditions set forth in the Registration
Statement as of the Effective Date and the terms and conditions set forth
herein.  

(2) The undersigned
shall, within the forty (40) trading day period beginning sixty (60) days after
the end of the  restricted period  under Regulation M as determined by the
Underwriter, purchase for the undersigned s own account up to $2,000,000 of
Warrants at market prices not to exceed $0.65 per Warrant.  

(3) The undersigned
shall not offer, pledge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, either
directly or indirectly, any Warrants purchased pursuant to this Warrant
Purchase Letter or the Order until after the Business Combination Date.  

This Warrant Purchase
Letter shall be binding on the undersigned and his respective successors and assigns.  

This Warrant Purchase
Letter shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in accordance with
the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts formed and to be
performed entirely within the State of New York, without regard to the
conflicts of law provisions thereof to the extent such principles or
rules would require or permit the application of the laws of another
jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of
this Warrant Purchase Letter may be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified
except by written instrument executed and delivered by the party against whom
such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

Very
  truly yours,  

/s/ JOEL R. JACKS  

Joel
  R. Jacks  

Accepted and agreed as
  of the date hereof:  

CRT CAPITAL GROUP LLC  

By:  

/s/ ERIC SEAL  

Name: Eric Seal  

Title: Vice President  

2  

SCHEDULE 1  

Supplemental Common Definitions  

UNLESS
THE CONTEXT SHALL OTHERWISE REQUIRE, THE FOLLOWING TERMS SHALL HAVE THE
FOLLOWING RESPECTIVE MEANINGS FOR ALL PURPOSES, AND THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS
ARE EQUALLY APPLICABLE TO BOTH THE SINGULAR AND THE PLURAL FORMS AND THE
FEMININE, MASCULINE AND NEUTER FORMS OF THE TERMS DEFINED.  

Business Combination 
shall mean the acquisition by the Company, whether by merger, capital stock
exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business
combination, of one operating business in the federal services and defense
industries, which has a fair market value (as calculated in accordance with the
Company s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation) equal to at least
80% of the Company s net assets at the time of such merger, capital stock
exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business
combination.  

Business Combination
Date  shall mean the date upon which a Business Combination is consummated.  

Effective Date  shall
mean the date upon which the Registration Statement is declared effective under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by the SEC.  

3  

SCHEDULE 2  

October
   , 2005  

CRT
Capital Group LLC  

  262
Harbor Drive  

  Stamford,
CT 06902  

RE:          Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation  

Gentlemen:  

This letter, delivered in
accordance with the Warrant Purchase Letter, dated October __, 2005, between
CRT Capital Group LLC (the  Underwriter ) and the undersigned (the  Warrant
Purchase Letter ), confirms the agreement thereon of the undersigned to
purchase (the  Purchase Commitment ) warrants (the  Warrants ) of Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation (the  Company ) that are included in the units
being sold in the Company s initial public offering pursuant to the Company s
registration statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-124638), as amended
and supplemented from time to time.  The Purchase Commitment is subject to
the terms and conditions set forth herein.  

The undersigned agrees
that this letter agreement constitutes an irrevocable order (the  Order ) for
the Underwriter to purchase for the undersigned s account, within the forty
(40) trading days beginning sixty (60) days after the end of the  restricted
period  under Regulation M as determined by the Underwriter (such date, the  Commitment
Date ), up to $2,000,000 of Warrants at market prices not to exceed $0.65 per
Warrant.  The Underwriter (or such other broker-dealer(s) as the
Underwriter may assign the order to) agrees to fill such order in such amounts
and at such times as it may determine, in its sole discretion, during the forty
(40) trading days commencing on the Commitment Date.  The Underwriter
further agrees that it will not charge the undersigned or any Designee (as
defined below) any fees and/or commissions with respect to any purchase
pursuant to the Warrant Purchase Letter or the Order.  

The undersigned may
notify the Underwriter that all or part of the Order will be fulfilled by an
affiliate of the undersigned (or another person or entity identified to the
Underwriter by the undersigned (each a  Designee )) who (or which) has an
account at the Underwriter and, in such event, the Underwriter will make such
purchase on behalf of said affiliate or Designee;  provided ,  however ,
that the undersigned hereby agrees to make payment of the purchase price of
such purchase in the event that the affiliate or Designee fails to make such
payment;  provided    further , that any such Designee has executed an
agreement, satisfactory to the Underwriter, pursuant to which such Designee
agrees not to offer, pledge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, either  

4  

directly or indirectly,
any Warrants purchased pursuant to the Warrant Purchase Letter or the Order
until after the Business Combination Date (as defined in the Warrant Purchase
Letter).  

This letter agreement
shall be binding on the undersigned and his respective heirs, successors and
assigns.  

This letter agreement
shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York applicable to contracts formed and to be performed
entirely within the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law
provisions thereof to the extent such principles or rules would require or
permit the application of the laws of another jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of
this letter agreement may be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified
except by written instrument executed and delivered by the party against whom
such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

Very
  truly yours,  

Joel
  R. Jacks  

5  

</EX-10.15.1>

<EX-10.15.2>
 17
 a06-7939_1ex10d15d2.htm
 EX-10.15.2

Exhibit 10.15.2   

October 19, 2005  

CRT Capital Group LLC  

  262 Harbor Drive  

  Stanford, CT 06902  

Re:          Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation  

Ladies and Gentlemen:  

This letter agreement
(this  Warrant Purchase Letter ) is being delivered to you in connection with
the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-124638) (as may
be amended and supplemented from time to time, the  Registration Statement )
that was initially filed by Federal Services Acquisition Corporation, a
Delaware corporation (the  Company ), with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the  SEC ) on May 4, 2005, which relates to an underwritten
initial public offering (the  IPO ) of the Company s units (the  Units ), each
comprised of one share of the Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per
share (the  Common Stock ), and two warrants, each of which are exercisable for
one share of Common Stock (each, a  Warrant ).  Capitalized terms used but
not otherwise defined herein shall have their respective meanings set forth on
Schedule 1 hereto.  

For good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged,
the undersigned hereby agrees as follows:  

(1) Prior to the
execution of the underwriting agreement between the Company and CRT Capital
Group LLC (the  Underwriter ), the undersigned shall duly execute and deliver
an irrevocable order to purchase Warrants (the  Order ) to the Underwriter, in
the form attached hereto as Schedule 2, with such terms and conditions as
are consistent with the terms and conditions set forth in the Registration
Statement as of the Effective Date and the terms and conditions set forth
herein.  

(2) The undersigned
shall, within the forty (40) trading day period beginning sixty (60) days after
the end of the  restricted period  under Regulation M as determined by the
Underwriter, purchase for the undersigned s own account up to $2,000,000 of
Warrants at market prices not to exceed $0.65 per Warrant.  

(3) The undersigned
shall not offer, pledge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, either
directly or indirectly, any Warrants purchased pursuant to this Warrant
Purchase Letter or the Order until after the Business Combination Date.  

This Warrant Purchase
Letter shall be binding on the undersigned and his respective successors and assigns.  

This Warrant Purchase
Letter shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in accordance with
the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts formed and to be
performed entirely within the State of New York, without regard to the
conflicts of law provisions thereof to the extent such principles or
rules would require or permit the application of the laws of another
jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of
this Warrant Purchase Letter may be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified
except by written instrument executed and delivered by the party against whom
such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

Very truly yours,  

/s/ PETER M. SCHULTE  

Peter
  M. Schulte  

Accepted and agreed as
  of the date hereof:  

CRT CAPITAL GROUP LLC  

By:  

/s/ ERIC SEAL  

Name: Eric Seal  

Title: Vice President  

2  

SCHEDULE 1  

Supplemental Common Definitions  

UNLESS
THE CONTEXT SHALL OTHERWISE REQUIRE, THE FOLLOWING TERMS SHALL HAVE THE
FOLLOWING RESPECTIVE MEANINGS FOR ALL PURPOSES, AND THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS
ARE EQUALLY APPLICABLE TO BOTH THE SINGULAR AND THE PLURAL FORMS AND THE
FEMININE, MASCULINE AND NEUTER FORMS OF THE TERMS DEFINED.  

Business Combination 
shall mean the acquisition by the Company, whether by merger, capital stock
exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business
combination, of one operating business in the federal services and defense
industries, which has a fair market value (as calculated in accordance with the
Company s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation) equal to at least
80% of the Company s net assets at the time of such merger, capital stock
exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business
combination.  

Business Combination
Date  shall mean the date upon which a Business Combination is consummated.  

Effective Date  shall
mean the date upon which the Registration Statement is declared effective under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by the SEC.  

3  

SCHEDULE 2  

October
    , 2005  

CRT
Capital Group LLC  

  262
Harbor Drive  

  Stamford,
CT 06902  

RE:          Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation  

Gentlemen:  

This letter, delivered in
accordance with the Warrant Purchase Letter, dated October    ,
2005, between CRT Capital Group LLC (the  Underwriter ) and the undersigned
(the  Warrant Purchase Letter ), confirms the agreement thereon of the
undersigned to purchase (the  Purchase Commitment ) warrants (the  Warrants )
of Federal Services Acquisition Corporation (the  Company ) that are included
in the units being sold in the Company s initial public offering pursuant to
the Company s registration statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-124638),
as amended and supplemented from time to time.  The Purchase Commitment is
subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein.  

The undersigned agrees
that this letter agreement constitutes an irrevocable order (the  Order ) for
the Underwriter to purchase for the undersigned s account, within the forty
(40) trading days beginning sixty (60) days after the end of the  restricted
period  under Regulation M as determined by the Underwriter (such date, the  Commitment
Date ), up to $2,000,000 of Warrants at market prices not to exceed $0.65 per
Warrant.  The Underwriter (or such other broker-dealer(s) as the
Underwriter may assign the order to) agrees to fill such order in such amounts
and at such times as it may determine, in its sole discretion, during the forty
(40) trading days commencing on the Commitment Date.  The Underwriter
further agrees that it will not charge the undersigned or any Designee (as
defined below) any fees and/or commissions with respect to any purchase
pursuant to the Warrant Purchase Letter or the Order.  

The undersigned may
notify the Underwriter that all or part of the Order will be fulfilled by an
affiliate of the undersigned (or another person or entity identified to the
Underwriter by the undersigned (each a  Designee )) who (or which) has an
account at the Underwriter and, in such event, the Underwriter will make such
purchase on behalf of said affiliate or Designee;  provided ,  however ,
that the undersigned hereby agrees to make payment of the purchase price of such
purchase in the event that the affiliate or Designee fails to make such
payment;  provided    further , that any such Designee has executed an
agreement, satisfactory to the Underwriter, pursuant to which such Designee
agrees not to offer, pledge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, either  

4  

directly or indirectly,
any Warrants purchased pursuant to the Warrant Purchase Letter or the Order
until after the Business Combination Date (as defined in the Warrant Purchase
Letter).  

This letter agreement
shall be binding on the undersigned and his respective heirs, successors and
assigns.  

This letter agreement
shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York applicable to contracts formed and to be performed
entirely within the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law
provisions thereof to the extent such principles or rules would require or
permit the application of the laws of another jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of
this letter agreement may be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified
except by written instrument executed and delivered by the party against whom
such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

Very
  truly yours,  

Peter
  M. Schulte  

5  

</EX-10.15.2>

<EX-10.15.3>
 18
 a06-7939_1ex10d15d3.htm
 EX-10.15.3

Exhibit 10.15.3   

October 19, 2005  

CRT Capital Group LLC  

  262 Harbor Drive  

  Stanford, CT 06902  

Re:          Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation  

Ladies and Gentlemen:  

This letter agreement
(this  Warrant Purchase Letter ) is being delivered to you in connection with
the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-124638) (as may
be amended and supplemented from time to time, the  Registration Statement )
that was initially filed by Federal Services Acquisition Corporation, a
Delaware corporation (the  Company ), with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the  SEC ) on May 4, 2005, which relates to an underwritten
initial public offering (the  IPO ) of the Company s units (the  Units ), each
comprised of one share of the Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per
share (the  Common Stock ), and two warrants, each of which are exercisable for
one share of Common Stock (each, a  Warrant ).  Capitalized terms used but
not otherwise defined herein shall have their respective meanings set forth on
Schedule 1 hereto.  

For good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged,
the undersigned hereby agrees as follows:  

(1) Prior to the
execution of the underwriting agreement between the Company and CRT Capital
Group LLC (the  Underwriter ), the undersigned shall duly execute and deliver
an irrevocable order to purchase Warrants (the  Order ) to the Underwriter, in
the form attached hereto as Schedule 2, with such terms and conditions as
are consistent with the terms and conditions set forth in the Registration
Statement as of the Effective Date and the terms and conditions set forth
herein.  

(2) The undersigned
shall, within the forty (40) trading day period beginning sixty (60) days after
the end of the  restricted period  under Regulation M as determined by the
Underwriter, purchase for the undersigned s own account up to $2,000,000 of
Warrants at market prices not to exceed $0.65 per Warrant.  

(3) The undersigned
shall not offer, pledge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, either
directly or indirectly, any Warrants purchased pursuant to this Warrant
Purchase Letter or the Order until after the Business Combination Date.  

This Warrant Purchase
Letter shall be binding on the undersigned and his respective successors and assigns.  

This Warrant Purchase
Letter shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in accordance with
the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts formed and to be
performed entirely within the State of New York, without regard to the
conflicts of law provisions thereof to the extent such principles or
rules would require or permit the application of the laws of another
jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of
this Warrant Purchase Letter may be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified
except by written instrument executed and delivered by the party against whom
such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

Very truly yours,  

/s/
  EDWARD H. BERSOFF  

Dr.
  Edward H. Bersoff  

Accepted and agreed as
  of the date hereof:  

CRT CAPITAL GROUP LLC  

By:   

/s/ ERIC SEAL  

Name: Eric Seal  

Title: Vice President  

2  

SCHEDULE 1  

Supplemental Common Definitions  

UNLESS
THE CONTEXT SHALL OTHERWISE REQUIRE, THE FOLLOWING TERMS SHALL HAVE THE
FOLLOWING RESPECTIVE MEANINGS FOR ALL PURPOSES, AND THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS
ARE EQUALLY APPLICABLE TO BOTH THE SINGULAR AND THE PLURAL FORMS AND THE
FEMININE, MASCULINE AND NEUTER FORMS OF THE TERMS DEFINED.  

Business Combination 
shall mean the acquisition by the Company, whether by merger, capital stock
exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business
combination, of one operating business in the federal services and defense
industries, which has a fair market value (as calculated in accordance with the
Company s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation) equal to at least
80% of the Company s net assets at the time of such merger, capital stock
exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business
combination.  

Business Combination
Date  shall mean the date upon which a Business Combination is consummated.  

Effective Date  shall
mean the date upon which the Registration Statement is declared effective under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by the SEC.  

3  

SCHEDULE 2  

October
    , 2005  

CRT
Capital Group LLC  

  262
Harbor Drive  

  Stamford,
CT 06902  

RE:          Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation  

Gentlemen:  

This letter, delivered in
accordance with the Warrant Purchase Letter, dated October    ,
2005, between CRT Capital Group LLC (the  Underwriter ) and the undersigned
(the  Warrant Purchase Letter ), confirms the agreement thereon of the
undersigned to purchase (the  Purchase Commitment ) warrants (the  Warrants )
of Federal Services Acquisition Corporation (the  Company ) that are included
in the units being sold in the Company s initial public offering pursuant to
the Company s registration statement on Form S-1 (File
No. 333-124638), as amended and supplemented from time to time.  The
Purchase Commitment is subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein.  

The undersigned agrees
that this letter agreement constitutes an irrevocable order (the  Order ) for the
Underwriter to purchase for the undersigned s account, within the forty (40)
trading days beginning sixty (60) days after the end of the  restricted period 
under Regulation M as determined by the Underwriter (such date, the  Commitment
Date ), up to $2,000,000 of Warrants at market prices not to exceed $0.65 per
Warrant.  The Underwriter (or such other broker-dealer(s) as the
Underwriter may assign the order to) agrees to fill such order in such amounts
and at such times as it may determine, in its sole discretion, during the forty
(40) trading days commencing on the Commitment Date.  The Underwriter
further agrees that it will not charge the undersigned or any Designee (as
defined below) any fees and/or commissions with respect to any purchase pursuant
to the Warrant Purchase Letter or the Order.  

The undersigned may
notify the Underwriter that all or part of the Order will be fulfilled by an
affiliate of the undersigned (or another person or entity identified to the
Underwriter by the undersigned (each a  Designee )) who (or which) has an
account at the Underwriter and, in such event, the Underwriter will make such
purchase on behalf of said affiliate or Designee;  provided ,  however ,
that the undersigned hereby agrees to make payment of the purchase price of
such purchase in the event that the affiliate or Designee fails to make such
payment;  provided    further , that any such Designee has executed an
agreement, satisfactory to the Underwriter, pursuant to which such Designee
agrees not to offer, pledge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, either  

4  

directly or indirectly,
any Warrants purchased pursuant to the Warrant Purchase Letter or the Order
until after the Business Combination Date (as defined in the Warrant Purchase
Letter).  

This letter agreement
shall be binding on the undersigned and his respective heirs, successors and
assigns.  

This letter agreement
shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York applicable to contracts formed and to be performed
entirely within the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law
provisions thereof to the extent such principles or rules would require or
permit the application of the laws of another jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of
this letter agreement may be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified
except by written instrument executed and delivered by the party against whom
such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

Very
  truly yours,  

Dr.
  Edward H. Bersoff  

5  

</EX-10.15.3>

<EX-10.15.4>
 19
 a06-7939_1ex10d15d4.htm
 EX-10.15.4

Exhibit 10.15.4   

October 19, 2005  

CRT Capital Group LLC  

  262 Harbor Drive  

  Stanford, CT 06902  

Re:          Federal Services Acquisition
Corporation  

Ladies and Gentlemen:  

This letter agreement
(this  Warrant Purchase Letter ) is being delivered to you in connection with
the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-124638) (as may
be amended and supplemented from time to time, the  Registration Statement )
that was initially filed by Federal Services Acquisition Corporation, a
Delaware corporation (the  Company ), with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the  SEC ) on May 4, 2005, which relates to an underwritten
initial public offering (the  IPO ) of the Company s units (the  Units ), each
comprised of one share of the Company s common stock, par value $0.0001 per
share (the  Common Stock ), and two warrants, each of which are exercisable for
one share of Common Stock (each, a  Warrant ).  Capitalized terms used but
not otherwise defined herein shall have their respective meanings set forth on
Schedule 1 hereto.  

For good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged,
the undersigned hereby agrees as follows:  

(1) Prior to the
execution of the underwriting agreement between the Company and CRT Capital
Group LLC (the  Underwriter ), the undersigned shall duly execute and deliver
an irrevocable order to purchase Warrants (the  Order ) to the Underwriter, in
the form attached hereto as Schedule 2, with such terms and conditions as
are consistent with the terms and conditions set forth in the Registration
Statement as of the Effective Date and the terms and conditions set forth
herein.  

(2) The undersigned
shall, within the forty (40) trading day period beginning sixty (60) days after
the end of the  restricted period  under Regulation M as determined by the
Underwriter, purchase for the undersigned s own account up to $2,000,000 of
Warrants at market prices not to exceed $0.65 per Warrant.  

(3) The undersigned
shall not offer, pledge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, either
directly or indirectly, any Warrants purchased pursuant to this Warrant
Purchase Letter or the Order until after the Business Combination Date.  

This Warrant Purchase
Letter shall be binding on the undersigned and his respective successors and assigns.  

This Warrant Purchase
Letter shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in accordance with
the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts formed and to be
performed entirely within the State of New York, without regard to the
conflicts of law provisions thereof to the extent such principles or
rules would require or permit the application of the laws of another
jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of
this Warrant Purchase Letter may be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified
except by written instrument executed and delivered by the party against whom
such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

Very truly yours,  

/s/
  JOEL R. JACKS  

Joel
  R. Jacks, on behalf of  

FSAC Partners, LLC  

Accepted and agreed as
  of the date hereof:  

CRT CAPITAL GROUP LLC  

By:   

/s/ ERIC SEAL  

Name: Eric Seal  

Title: Vice President  

2  

SCHEDULE 1  

Supplemental Common Definitions  

UNLESS
THE CONTEXT SHALL OTHERWISE REQUIRE, THE FOLLOWING TERMS SHALL HAVE THE
FOLLOWING RESPECTIVE MEANINGS FOR ALL PURPOSES, AND THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS
ARE EQUALLY APPLICABLE TO BOTH THE SINGULAR AND THE PLURAL FORMS AND THE
FEMININE, MASCULINE AND NEUTER FORMS OF THE TERMS DEFINED.  

Business Combination 
shall mean the acquisition by the Company, whether by merger, capital stock
exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business
combination, of one operating business in the federal services and defense
industries, which has a fair market value (as calculated in accordance with the
Company s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation) equal to at least
80% of the Company s net assets at the time of such merger, capital stock
exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business
combination.  

Business Combination
Date  shall mean the date upon which a Business Combination is consummated.  

Effective Date  shall
mean the date upon which the Registration Statement is declared effective under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by the SEC.  

3  

SCHEDULE 2  

October
    , 2005  

CRT
Capital Group LLC  

  262
Harbor Drive  

  Stamford,
CT 06902  

RE:          Federal Services Acquisition Corporation  

Gentlemen:  

This letter, delivered in
accordance with the Warrant Purchase Letter, dated October    ,
2005, between CRT Capital Group LLC (the  Underwriter ) and the undersigned
(the  Warrant Purchase Letter ), confirms the agreement thereon of the undersigned
to purchase (the  Purchase Commitment ) warrants (the  Warrants ) of Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation (the  Company ) that are included in the units
being sold in the Company s initial public offering pursuant to the Company s
registration statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-124638), as amended
and supplemented from time to time.  The Purchase Commitment is subject to
the terms and conditions set forth herein.  

The undersigned agrees
that this letter agreement constitutes an irrevocable order (the  Order ) for
the Underwriter to purchase for the undersigned s account, within the forty
(40) trading days beginning sixty (60) days after the end of the  restricted
period  under Regulation M as determined by the Underwriter (such date, the  Commitment
Date ), up to $2,000,000 of Warrants at market prices not to exceed $0.65 per
Warrant.  The Underwriter (or such other broker-dealer(s) as the
Underwriter may assign the order to) agrees to fill such order in such amounts
and at such times as it may determine, in its sole discretion, during the forty
(40) trading days commencing on the Commitment Date.  The Underwriter
further agrees that it will not charge the undersigned or any Designee (as
defined below) any fees and/or commissions with respect to any purchase
pursuant to the Warrant Purchase Letter or the Order.  

The undersigned may
notify the Underwriter that all or part of the Order will be fulfilled by an
affiliate of the undersigned (or another person or entity identified to the
Underwriter by the undersigned (each a  Designee )) who (or which) has an
account at the Underwriter and, in such event, the Underwriter will make such
purchase on behalf of said affiliate or Designee;  provided ,  however ,
that the undersigned hereby agrees to make payment of the purchase price of
such purchase in the event that the affiliate or Designee fails to make such
payment;  provided    further , that any such Designee has executed an
agreement, satisfactory to the Underwriter, pursuant to which such Designee
agrees not to offer, pledge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, either  

4  

directly or indirectly,
any Warrants purchased pursuant to the Warrant Purchase Letter or the Order
until after the Business Combination Date (as defined in the Warrant Purchase
Letter).  

This letter agreement
shall be binding on the undersigned and his respective heirs, successors and
assigns.  

This letter agreement
shall be governed by and interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York applicable to contracts formed and to be performed
entirely within the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of law
provisions thereof to the extent such principles or rules would require or
permit the application of the laws of another jurisdiction.  

No term or provision of
this letter agreement may be amended, changed, waived, altered or modified
except by written instrument executed and delivered by the party against whom
such amendment, change, waiver, alteration or modification is to be enforced.  

Very
  truly yours,  

Joel
  R. Jacks, on behalf of  

FSAC Partners, LLC  

5  

</EX-10.15.4>

<EX-10.16>
 20
 a06-7939_1ex10d16.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.16   

CM
EQUITY MANAGEMENT, L.P. 
OFFICE SERVICE AGREEMENT   

This Agreement is dated October 25, 2005 and
is entered into between CM Equity Management, L.P. ( CMEM ) and Federal
Services Acquisition Corporation ( FSAC ).  

CMEM and FSAC agree that CMEM will provide to
FSAC for and in consideration of the fees set forth herein, office space and
certain general and administrative services, as FSAC may require from time to
time and as outlined below.  

1.                BASIC
TERMS. 

A.               Monthly Fixed Fee for
Office Services (as defined in Section 2 below):  $7,500.00 

B.               Facilities:  900
Third Avenue, 34th Floor, New York, NY 10022-4775 (the  Building ) 

C.               Term:  from the
effective date of FSAC s proposed initial public offering of its units pursuant
to its Registration Statement on Form S-1 as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on May 4, 2005, as amended (such Registration
Statement, the  Registration Statement  and such date, the  Effective Date )
until the earlier of FSAC s (i) failure to enter into a letter of intent,
definitive agreement or agreement in principle with respect to a Business
Combination (as defined in the Registration Statement) on any day during the
eighteen-month period immediately following the Effective Date, and
(ii) the failure to consummate a Business Combination on any day during
the twenty-four-month period immediately following the Effective Date (the  Term ) 

2.                OFFICE
SERVICES.  FSAC shall be provided with the non-exclusive use of the
Building and shall have access to the Building twenty-four (24) hours a day,
seven (7) days a week.  In exchange for the Monthly Fixed Fee for
Office Services, CMEM agrees to provide the following base services:
 office cleaning, maintenance services, office supplies, electricity,
heating and air conditioning to the Building, administrative support,
including, but not limited to, information technology, secretarial and
bookkeeping services as well as communications services such as unlimited use
of Internet/Data, telephone, fax and photocopier (the  Office Services ). 
In addition, FSAC will have reasonable use of CMEM common area
facilities.  FSAC shall use the Building and auxiliary areas of the
facilities solely for general office use in the conduct of FSAC s business. 

If for any reason whatsoever, CMEM is unable
to deliver possession of the Building or a mutually agreed upon alternative
building at the time herein agreed, FSAC may either extend the  

commencement date of this Agreement until the Building becomes
available or, as its sole remedy for such failure, cancel and terminate this
Agreement if the Building is not delivered to FSAC within five
(5) business days after written notice to CMEM by FSAC, in which case any
prior payments shall be fully refunded.  No such failure to deliver possession
shall subject CMEM to any liability for loss or damage, nor affect the validity
of this Agreement or the obligations of the FSAC hereunder.  

In order to accommodate the needs of
potential multiple office clients, CMEM will have the right, upon ten (10) days 
written notice, to relocate FSAC to other offices in the Building and to
substitute such other offices for the offices contracted herein, provided such
other offices are substantially similar in area and configuration to FSAC s
contracted offices and provided FSAC shall incur no increase in the total
monthly fee or any relocation cost or expense.  

FSAC will not offer to any party in the
Building any of the services which CMEM provides to FSAC.  

CMEM will answer all incoming phone calls,
unless otherwise mutually agreed, during normal business hours, as reasonably
determined by CMEM.  

FSAC acknowledges that due to the imperfect
nature of verbal, written and electronic communications, CMEM shall not be
responsible for damages, direct or consequential, which may result from the
failure of CMEM to furnish any service, including but not limited to the
conveying of messages, communications and other utilities or services required
under this Agreement.  

FSAC expressly agrees to waive the right to
make any claim for damages, direct or consequential, arising out of any failure
to furnish any utility, service or facility, any error or omission with respect
thereto, or any delay or interruption of the same.  

3.                DURATION
OF AGREEMENT.  After expiration of the Term, the Agreement will
automatically terminate.  Prior to expiration of the Term, either party
may terminate the Agreement upon 30 days  advance written notice to the other
party. 

4.                PAYMENTS. 
The monthly invoices/statements for the Monthly Fixed Fee for Office Services
will be billed in advance.  Statements will be placed in the mailbox or
faxed to FSAC on the first day of each month with payments due by the fifth day
of each month.  If the Term shall not commence on the first day of a month
or end on the last day of a month, fees for any such month shall be
prorated.  All amounts payable hereunder shall be payable at the office of
CMEM or to such other location or to any agent designated in writing by CMEM. 

5.                DAMAGES
AND INSURANCE.  FSAC will not damage or deface the furnishings, walls,
floors or ceiling.  FSAC will not cause damage to any part of the Building
or disturb the quiet enjoyment of any other licensee or occupant of the
Building nor suffer to be made any waste, obstruction or unlawful, improper or
offensive use of the Building or the common area facilities.  At the
termination of this Agreement, FSAC will return the Building in 

as good of condition as when FSAC took possession, though normal wear
and tear shall be expected.  CMEM shall have the right to show the
Building to prospective clients, provided CMEM will use reasonable efforts not
to disrupt FSAC s business.  

CMEM and its respective directors, licensors,
officers, agents, servants and employees shall not, to the extent permitted by law,
except upon the affirmative showing of CMEM s gross negligence or willful
misconduct, be liable for, and FSAC waives all right of recovery against such
entities and individuals for any damage or claim with respect to any injury to
person or damage to, or loss or destruction of any property of FSAC, its
employees, authorized persons and invitees due to any act, omission or
occurrence in or about the Building.  Without limitation of any other
provision hereof, FSAC agrees to indemnify, defend, protect and hold CMEM and
its respective directors, licensors, officers, agents, servants and employees
harmless from and against all liability to third parties arising out of FSAC s
use and occupancy of the Building or actions or omissions of FSAC and its
agents, employees, contractors, and invitees.  FSAC further agrees that
all personal property of FSAC, its agents, employees, contractors, and
invitees, within or about the facilities of the Building shall be at the sole
risk of FSAC.  

The parties hereby waive any and all rights
of recovery against each other, or against the officers, employees, agents or
representatives of the other, for loss of or damage to its property or the
property of others under its control, to the extent such loss or damage is
covered by any insurance policy.  

If the Building is made unusable, in whole or
in part by fire or other casualty not due to the negligence of FSAC, CMEM may,
at its option, terminate the Agreement upon written notice to FSAC, effective
upon such casualty, or may elect to repair, restore, or rehabilitate, or cause
to be repaired, restored or rehabilitated, the Building, without expense to
FSAC, within ninety (90) days or within such longer period of time as may be
required because of events beyond CMEM s control.  The Monthly Fixed Fee
for Office Services shall be abated on a pro rata basis for the period of time
the Building is unusable.  

6.                DEFAULT. 
FSAC shall be deemed to be in default under this Agreement:  (a) if
FSAC fails to pay the Monthly Fixed Fee for Office Services, (b) if FSAC
fails to promptly and fully perform any other provisions of this Agreement and
any such default continues in excess of five (5) business days after
written notice by CMEM, or (c) if FSAC fails to comply with the laws or
permit licensing rules and other requirements regulating the conduct of
FSAC s business.  Should FSAC be in default hereunder, CMEM may terminate
any or all of the services for the period of such default. 

7.                MISCELLANEOUS. 

A.               This
is the only Agreement between the parties.  All amendments to this
Agreement shall be in writing and signed by all parties.  Any attempted
amendment shall be void.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision hereof shall not affect the remainder hereof. 

B.               All
waivers must be in writing and signed by the waiving party.  CMEM s
failure to enforce any provision of this Agreement or its acceptance of fees
shall not be a waiver and shall not prevent CMEM from enforcing any provisions
of this Agreement in the future.  No receipt of money by CMEM shall be
deemed to waive any default of FSAC or to extend, reinstate or continue the
term hereof. 

C.               In
regard to the trust account that will hold substantially all of the offering
proceeds FSAC expects to raise from the initial public offering of its units
(the  Trust Account ), CMEM hereby waives any right of recourse against the
Trust Account and agrees not to seek reimbursement, payment or satisfaction of
any claim against the Trust Account. 

D.               The
laws of the State of New York without regard to the conflict of law principles
shall govern this Agreement. 

E.                FSAC
represents and warrants to CMEM that there are no agents, brokers, finders or
other parties with whom FSAC has dealt who are or may be entitled to any
commission or fee with respect to this Agreement. 

F.                Neither
FSAC nor anyone claiming by, through or under FSAC shall assign this Agreement
or permit the use of any portion of the Building by any person other than FSAC. 

G.               All
notices hereunder shall be in writing.  Notices to FSAC shall be deemed to
be duly given if hand-delivered to FSAC s mailbox at 900 Third Avenue, 33rd
Floor, New York, NY 10022-4775.  Notice to CMEM shall be deemed to be duly
given if mailed by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to 900 Third
Avenue, 33rd Floor, New York, NY 10022-4775. 

H.               FSAC
acknowledges that CMEM will comply with U.S. Postal Service regulations
regarding client mail and, upon termination of this Agreement, it will be FSAC s
responsibility to notify all parties of termination of the use of the
above-described address. 

I.                 CMEM
may assign this Agreement and/or any fees hereunder and FSAC agrees to attorn
any such assignee. 

J.                CMEM
shall not be liable for any interruption or error in the performance of its
services to FSAC.  FSAC waives any recourse against CMEM arising from the
provision of such services, including, without limitation, any claim of
business interruption or for any indirect, incidental, special, consequential
or punitive damages, except for claims arising out of willful misconduct or
from negligence by CMEM. 

K.               CMEM
will not be liable for any claim of business interruption or for any indirect,
incidental, special, consequential, exemplary or punitive damages arising out
of any failure to furnish any service or facility, any error or omission with
respect thereto, or any delay or interruption of the same. 

L.                CMEM
and its agents will have the right of access to the Building at any time for
the purpose of (i) making any repairs, alterations and/or inspections that
it deems necessary in its sole discretion for the preservation, safety or
improvements of the facilities, or (ii) to show the facilities to
prospective clients without in any way being deemed or held to have committed
an eviction (constructive or otherwise) of or trespass against FSAC. 

M.              Failure
of CMEM to insist upon the strict performance of any term or condition of this
Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy available for a breach thereof, or
acceptance of full or partial payment during the continuance of any such
breach, will not constitute a waiver of any such breach or any such term or
condition.  No term or condition of this Agreement required to be
performed by FSAC and no breach thereof, will be waived, altered or modified,
except by a written instrument executed by CMEM. 

</EX-10.16>

<EX-10.17>
 21
 a06-7939_1ex10d17.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.17   

STOCK ESCROW AGREEMENT   

STOCK
ESCROW AGREEMENT, dated as of October 19, 2005 ( Agreement ), by and among
FEDERAL SERVICES ACQUISITION CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation ( Company ),
JOEL R. JACKS, PETER M. SCHULTE, Dr. EDWARD H. BERSOFF, ARTHUR L. MONEY and
FSAC PARTNERS, LLC (collectively  Initial Stockholders ) and CONTINENTAL STOCK
TRANSFER   TRUST COMPANY, a New York corporation ( Escrow Agent ).  

WHEREAS,
the Company has entered into an Underwriting Agreement, dated October  19,
2005 ( Underwriting Agreement ), with CRT Capital Group LLC (the  Underwriter ),
pursuant to which, among other matters, the Underwriter has agreed to purchase
21,000,000 units ( Units ) of the Company. Each Unit consists of one share of
the Company s Common Stock, par value $.0001 per share, and two Warrants, each
Warrant to purchase one share of Common Stock, all as more fully described in
the Company s final Prospectus, dated October  19, 2005 ( Prospectus )
comprising part of the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No.
333-124638) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ( Registration
Statement ), declared effective on October 19, 2005 ( Effective Date ).  

WHEREAS,
the Initial Stockholders have agreed as a condition of the sale of the Units to
deposit their shares of Common Stock of the Company, as set forth opposite
their respective names in Exhibit A attached hereto (collectively  Escrow
Shares ), in escrow as hereinafter provided.  

WHEREAS,
the Company and the Initial Stockholders desire that the Escrow Agent accept
the Escrow Shares, in escrow, to be held and disbursed as hereinafter provided.  

IT IS
AGREED:  

1.                 Appointment
of Escrow Agent . The Company and the Initial Stockholders hereby appoint
the Escrow Agent to act in accordance with and subject to the terms of this
Agreement and the Escrow Agent hereby accepts such appointment and agrees to
act in accordance with and subject to such terms. 

2.                 Deposit
of Escrow Shares . On or before the Effective Date, each of the Initial
Stockholders shall deliver to the Escrow Agent certificates representing his
respective Escrow Shares, to be held and disbursed subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement. Each Initial Stockholder acknowledges that the
certificate representing his Escrow Shares is legended to reflect the deposit
of such Escrow Shares under this Agreement. 

3.                 Disbursement
of the Escrow Shares . The Escrow Agent shall hold the Escrow Shares until
the third anniversary of the Effective Date ( Escrow Period ), on which date it
shall, upon written instructions from each Initial Stockholder, disburse each
of the Initial Stockholder s Escrow Shares to such Initial Stockholders;
provided, however, that if the Escrow Agent is notified by the Company pursuant
to Section 6.7 hereof that the Company is being liquidated at any time during
the Escrow Period, then the Escrow Agent shall promptly destroy the
certificates representing the Escrow Shares; provided further, however, that
if, after the Company consummates a Business Combination (as such term is
defined in the Registration Statement), it 

(or the surviving entity) subsequently consummates a
liquidation, merger, stock exchange or other similar transaction which results
in all of the stockholder of such entity having the right to exchange their
shares of Common Stock for cash, securities or other property, then the Escrow
Agent will, upon receipt of a certificate, executed by the Chief Executive
Officer or Chief Financial Officer of the Company, in form reasonably
acceptable to the Escrow Agent, that such transaction is then being
consummated, and release the Escrow Shares to the Initial Stockholders upon
consummation of the transaction so that they can similarly participate. The
Escrow Agent shall have no further duties hereunder after the disbursement or
destruction of the Escrow Shares in accordance with this Section 3.  

4.                 Rights
of Initial Stockholders in Escrow Shares . 

4.1.              Voting
Rights as a Stockholder . Subject to the terms of the Insider Letter
described in Section 4.4 hereof and except as herein provided, the Initial
Stockholders shall retain all of their rights as stockholders of the Company
during the Escrow Period, including, without limitation, the right to vote such
shares. 

4.2.              Dividends
and Other Distributions in Respect of the Escrow Shares . During the Escrow
Period, all dividends payable in cash with respect to the Escrow Shares shall
be paid to the Initial Stockholders, but all dividends payable in stock or
other non-cash property ( Non-Cash Dividends ) shall be delivered to the Escrow
Agent to hold in accordance with the terms hereof. As used herein, the term  Escrow
Shares  shall be deemed to include the Non-Cash Dividends distributed thereon,
if any. 

4.3.              Restrictions
on Transfer . During the Escrow Period, no sale, transfer or other
disposition may be made of any or all of the Escrow Shares except (i) by gift
to a member of Initial Stockholder s immediate family or to a trust, the
beneficiary of which is an Initial Stockholder or a member of an Initial
Stockholder s immediate family, (ii) by virtue of the laws of descent and
distribution upon death of any Initial Stockholder, or (iii) pursuant to a
qualified domestic relations order;  provided ,  however , that such
permissive transfers may be implemented only upon the respective transferee s
written agreement to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement and
of the Insider Letter signed by the Initial Stockholder transferring the Escrow
Shares. During the Escrow Period, the Initial Stockholders shall not pledge or
grant a security interest in the Escrow Shares or grant a security interest in
their rights under this Agreement. 

4.4.              Insider
Letters . Each of the Initial Stockholders has executed a letter agreement
with the Company, dated as indicated on Exhibit A hereto, and which is filed as
an exhibit to the Registration Statement ( Insider Letter ), respecting the
rights and obligations of such Initial Stockholder in certain events, including
but not limited to the liquidation of the Company. 

2  

5.                 Concerning
the Escrow Agent . 

5.1.              Good
Faith Reliance . The Escrow Agent shall not be liable for any action taken
or omitted by it in good faith and in the exercise of its own best judgment,
and may rely conclusively and shall be protected in acting upon any order,
notice, demand, certificate, opinion or advice of counsel (including counsel
chosen by the Escrow Agent), statement, instrument, report or other paper or
document (not only as to its due execution and the validity and effectiveness
of its provisions, but also as to the truth and acceptability of any
information therein contained) which is believed by the Escrow Agent to be
genuine and to be signed or presented by the proper person or persons. The
Escrow Agent shall not be bound by any notice or demand, or any waiver,
modification, termination or rescission of this Agreement unless evidenced by a
writing delivered to the Escrow Agent signed by the proper party or parties
and, if the duties or rights of the Escrow Agent are affected, unless it shall
have given its prior written consent thereto. 

5.2.              Indemnification .
The Escrow Agent shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company from and
against any expenses, including counsel fees and disbursements, or loss
suffered by the Escrow Agent in connection with any action, suit or other
proceeding involving any claim which in any way, directly or indirectly, arises
out of or relates to this Agreement, the services of the Escrow Agent
hereunder, or the Escrow Shares held by it hereunder, other than expenses or
losses arising from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Escrow
Agent. Promptly after the receipt by the Escrow Agent of notice of any demand
or claim or the commencement of any action, suit or proceeding, the Escrow
Agent shall notify the other parties hereto in writing. In the event of the
receipt of such notice, the Escrow Agent, in its sole discretion, may commence
an action in the nature of interpleader in an appropriate court to determine
ownership or disposition of the Escrow Shares or it may deposit the Escrow
Shares with the clerk of any appropriate court or it may retain the Escrow
Shares pending receipt of a final, non-appealable order of a court having
jurisdiction over all of the parties hereto directing to whom and under what
circumstances the Escrow Shares are to be disbursed and delivered. The
provisions of the Sections 5.2 and 5.7 shall survive in the event the Escrow
Agent resigns or is discharged pursuant to Sections 5.5 or 5.6 below. 

5.3.              Compensation .
The Escrow Agent shall be entitled to reasonable compensation from the Company
for all services rendered by it hereunder. The Escrow Agent shall also be
entitled to reimbursement from the Company for all expenses paid or incurred by
it in the administration of its duties hereunder including, but not limited to,
all counsel, advisors  and agents  fees and disbursements and all taxes or
other governmental charges. 

5.4.              Further
Assurances . From time to time on and after the date hereof, the Company and
the Initial Stockholders shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the Escrow
Agent such further documents and instruments and shall do or cause to be done
such further acts as the Escrow Agent shall reasonably request to carry out more
effectively the provisions and purposes of this Agreement, to evidence
compliance herewith or to assure itself that it is protected in acting
hereunder. 

5.5.              Resignation .
The Escrow Agent may resign at any time and be discharged from its duties as
escrow agent hereunder by its giving the other parties hereto written notice
and 

3  

such resignation shall become effective as hereinafter
provided. Such resignation shall become effective at such time that the Escrow
Agent shall turn over to a successor escrow agent appointed by the Company, the
Escrow Share held hereunder. If no new escrow agent is so appointed within the
60 day period following the giving of such notice of resignation, the Escrow
Agent may deposit the Escrow Shares with any court it reasonably deems
appropriate.  

5.6.              Discharge
of Escrow Agent . The Escrow Agent shall resign and be discharged form its
duties as escrow agent hereunder if so requested in writing at any time by the
Company and a majority of the Initial Shareholders, jointly, provided, however,
that such resignation shall become effective only upon acceptance of
appointment by a successor escrow agent as provided in Section 5.5. 

5.7.              Liability .
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Escrow Agent shall not be
relieved from liability hereunder for its own gross negligence or its own
willful misconduct. 

5.8.              Trust
Fund Waiver . The Escrow Agent has no right, title, interest, or claim of
any kind ( Claim ) in or to any monies in the Trust Account (as defined in that
certain Investment Management Trust Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by
and between the Company and Continental Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as
trustee of the Trust Account), and hereby waives any Claim it may have in the
future in or to any monies in the Trust Account, and hereby agrees not to seek
recourse, reimbursement, payment or satisfaction for any Claim against the
Trust Account for any reason whatsoever. 

6.                 Miscellaneous . 

6.1.              Governing
Law . This Agreement shall for all purposes be deemed to be made under and
shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. 

6.2.              Third
Party Beneficiaries . Each of the Initial Stockholders hereby acknowledges
that the Underwriter is a third party beneficiary of this Agreement and this
Agreement may not be modified or changed without the prior written consent of
CRT. 

6.3.              Entire
Agreement . This Agreement contains the entire agreement of the parties
hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and, except as expressly
provided herein, may not be changed or modified except by an instrument in
writing signed by the party to be charged. 

6.4.              Headings .
The headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and
shall not affect in any the meaning or interpretation thereof. 

6.5.              Binding
Effect . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of
the respective parties hereto and their legal representatives, successors and
assigns. 

6.6.              Notices .
Any notice or other communication required or which may be given hereunder
shall be in writing and either be delivered personally or be mailed, certified
or registered mail, or by private national courier service, return receipt
requested, postage prepaid, 

4  

and shall be deemed given when so delivered personally
or, if mailed, two days after the date of mailing, as follows:  

If to
the Company, to  

Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation  

  900 Third Avenue, 33 rd 
Floor  

  New York, NY  10022-4775  

  Attn:  Chairman  

If to
a Stockholder, to his address set forth in Exhibit A.  

and if
to the Escrow Agent, to:  

Continental Stock
Transfer   Trust Company  

  17 Battery Place  

  New York, NY  10004  

  Attn:  Chairman  

A copy
of any notice sent hereunder shall be sent to:  

Gusrae, Kaplan  
Bruno, PLLC  

  120 Wall Street  

  11 th  Floor  

  New York, NY  10005  

  Attn:  Scott M. Miller, Esq.  

and:  

CRT Capital Group LLC  

  262 Harbor Drive  

  Stanford, CT 06902  

  Attn: Christopher Chase,
Managing Director  

and:  

Bingham McCutchen LLP  

  399 Park Avenue  

  New York, NY 10022  

  Attn: Floyd Wittlin, Esq.  

and:  

Dechert LLP  

  30 Rockefeller Plaza  

  New York, NY  10112  

  Attn:  Gerald Adler, Esq.  

5  

The
parties may change the persons and addresses to which the notices or other
communications are to be sent by giving written notice to any such change in
the manner provided herein for giving notice.  

6.7.              Liquidation
of Company . The Company shall give the Escrow Agent written notification of
the liquidation and dissolution of the Company in the event that the Company
fails to consummate a Business Combination within the time period(s) specified
in the Prospectus. 

6  

WITNESS
the execution of this Agreement as of the date first above written:  

FEDERAL SERVICES
  ACQUISITION CORPORATION  

By:  

/s/ JOEL R. JACKS  

Joel R. Jacks,  

Chairman and Chief
  Executive Officer  

INITIAL STOCKHOLDERS:  

/s/ PETER M. SCHULTE  

PETER M. SCHULTE  

/s/ JOEL R. JACKS  

JOEL R. JACKS  

/s/ EDWARD H. BERSOFF  

Dr. EDWARD H. BERSOFF  

/s/ ARTHUR L. MONEY  

ARTHUR L. MONEY  

FSAC PARTNERS, LLC  

By:   

/s/ JOEL R. JACKS  

Name: Joel R. Jacks, on behalf of FSAC
  Partners, LLC  

Title: Class A Member  

CONTINENTAL STOCK
  TRANSFER   TRUST 
  COMPANY  

By:   

/s/ STEVEN NELSON  

Name: Steven Nelson  

Title: Chairman  

7  

EXHIBIT A   

A-1  

</EX-10.17>

<EX-31.1>
 22
 a06-7939_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
31.1   

CERTIFICATION BY PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

I,
Joel R. Jacks, certify that:  

1.                  I have reviewed this annual report on Form
10-K of Federal Services Acquisition Corporation (the  
 Registrant   

2.                  Based on my knowledge, this report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;  

3.                  Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;  

4.                  The Registrant s other certifying officer(s)
and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the
Registrant and have:  

(a)             designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the Registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)            evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(c)             disclosed in this report any change in the Registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most
recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and 

5.                  The Registrant s other certifying officer(s)
and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control
over financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors and the audit committee
of the Registrant s board of directors (or person performing the equivalent
functions):  

(a)             all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and 

(b)            any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Dated
  this 30 th  day of March, 2006.  

By:  

/s/    Joel R. Jacks     

Joel R. Jacks   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

(Principal Executive Officer)   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 23
 a06-7939_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
31.2   

CERTIFICATION
BY PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER  

I,
Peter M. Schulte, certify that:  

1.                  I have reviewed this annual report on Form
10-K of Federal Services Acquisition Corporation (the  Registrant   

2.                  Based on my knowledge, this report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;  

3.                  Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;  

4.                  The Registrant s other certifying officer(s)
and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the
Registrant and have:  

(a)             designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the Registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)            evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(c)             disclosed in this report any change in the Registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most
recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and 

5.                  The
Registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the Registrant s board of
directors (or person performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)             all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and 

(b)            any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Dated
  this 30 th  day of March, 2006.  

By:  

/s/    Peter M. Schulte      

Peter M. Schulte   

President and Chief Financial Officer   

(Principal Financial Officer)   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 24
 a06-7939_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
32.1   

Certification of Principal
Executive Officer  

  Pursuant to  

  Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. 1350)  

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2005 (the  Report ) of Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation (the  Registrant ), as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on the date hereof, I, Joel R. Jacks, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of the Registrant, hereby certify that:  

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements
of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended;
and  

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Registrant.  

Date:
  March 30, 2006  

By:  

/s/    Joel R. Jacks    

Joel R. Jacks   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

(Principal Executive Officer)   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 25
 a06-7939_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
32.2   

Certification of Principal
Financial Officer  

  Pursuant to  

  Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. 1350)  

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2005 (the  Report ) of Federal Services
Acquisition Corporation (the  Registrant ), as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on the date hereof, I, Peter M. Schulte, President and
Chief Financial Officer of the Registrant, hereby certify that:  

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements
of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended;
and  

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Registrant.  

Date:
  March 30, 2006  

By:  

/s/    Peter M. Schulte      

Peter M. Schulte   

President and Chief Financial Officer   

(Principal Financial Officer)   

</EX-32.2>

