<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_943736_0000893220-06-000749_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>529657</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>174615</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>217671</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>39</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000893220-06-000749.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331173108
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000893220-06-000749
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MED-DESIGN CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000943736
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS [3841]
		IRS NUMBER:				232771475
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-25852
		FILM NUMBER:		06730224

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2810 BUNSEN AVE
		CITY:			VENTURA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			93003
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8053390375

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2810 BUNSEN AVE
		CITY:			VENTURA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			93003

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 SQ5XuwIIU3wWH9Ppwg/8+IVOtaoJGmc3iNpVMS3Ur2ISsX2N0YBgxd4kMHKI5Zh+
 0yDCG4o9yMf/NUIXV4/+pA==

 0000893220-06-000749.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 w19329e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005. 

OR 

FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM                                                to                                               . 

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-25852 

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (805) 339-0375

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, Par Value $0.01 Per Share 
(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as define in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act. Yes    
No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K    .

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. (See definition of  accelerated file  or  large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Act. 
Large accelerated filer    
Accelerated filer    
Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).
Yes     No    

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant (computed by
reference to the last reported sale price of such stock on June 30, 2005) was $8,560,595. The
number of shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding as of March 29, 2006 was 16,874,486.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 

None

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

PART I   
     ITEM 1. BUSINESS   
     ITEM 1A   RISK FACTORS   
     ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS:   
     ITEM 2. PROPERTIES   
     ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
     ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   
   PART II   
     ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   
     ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
     ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
     ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
     ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
     ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
     ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
   PART III   
     ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   
     ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
     ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
     ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   
     ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   
   PART IV   
     ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   
   SIGNATURES   
   Consent of BDO Seidman, LLP   
   Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   
   Certificate of the Chief Executive Officer   
   Certificate of the Chief Financial Officer   
   Certificate of the Chief Executive Officer required by Rule 15d-14(b)   
   Certificate of the Chief Financial Officer required by Rule 15d-14(b)   

Table of Contents   

PART I 

SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

This Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that address, among other things, acceptance of safety products by
health care professionals; our expectations regarding contract manufacturing of certain specialty
devices; our pursuit of additional collaborative arrangements; the ability to manufacture certain
specialty devices using our assembly system; plans to rely on our strategic collaborators to pursue
regulatory approvals; expectations regarding the ability of our products to compete with the
products of our competitors; acceptance of our products by the marketplace as cost effective; the
generation of royalty revenues from our licensees; factors affecting the ability of Becton
Dickinson to sell products licensed from us; sufficiency of available resources to fund operations;
factors affecting the availability of capital; plans regarding the raising of capital; the size of
the market for our products; our plans regarding sales and marketing; our strategic business
initiatives; our intentions regarding dividends. These statements may be found under  Item
1-Business,   Item 1A-Risk Factors  and  Item 7-Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations  as well as in this Report generally. We generally identify
forward-looking statements in this Report using words like  believe,   anticipate,   will, 
 expect,   may,   could,   intend  or similar statements. There are important factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements including lack of demand or low demand for our products or for safety products
generally; a determination of Becton Dickinson to focus its marketing efforts on products other
than those licensed from us; delays in introduction of products licensed by us due to manufacturing
difficulties or other factors; our inability to license or enter into joint venture or similar
collaborative arrangements regarding our other products; unanticipated expenses relating to our
manufacturing effort and other factors discussed in  Item 1A   Risk Factors  and matters set forth
in this Report generally. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which reflect management s analysis only as of the date hereof. We
undertake no obligation to publicly revise these forward-looking statements to reflect events or
circumstances that arise after the date hereof.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

On November 21, 2005, Med-Design entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger and
Reorganization (as amended on March 6, 2006, the  Merger Agreement ) with Specialized Healthcare
Products International, Inc., a Delaware corporation ( SHPI ), and certain of its subsidiaries.
Under the Merger Agreement, Med-Design will merge (the  Merger ) with a subsidiary of SHPI, and
shares of common stock of Med-Design will be converted into shares of SHPI. The Merger is subject
to approval of stockholders of SHPI and Med-Design and other customary closing conditions. It is
anticipated that a special meeting of stockholders of Med-Design to consider approval and adoption
of the Merger Agreement will be held in early May 2006 and that the transaction will be completed
promptly thereafter.

Med-Design is principally engaged in the design, development, licensing and subcontract
manufacturing of safety medical devices intended to reduce the incidence of accidental needle
sticks. The majority of the safety medical devices we design and develop incorporate our
proprietary needle retraction technology. Our technology enables health care professionals to
retract a needle into the body of the medical device for safe disposal without any substantial
change in operating technique. Our product technology generally can be categorized into the
following five groups:

hypodermic syringes used to inject drugs and other fluids into the body; 

injectors used to inject drugs and other fluids into the body from a pre-filled
cartridge, vial or carpule; 

fluid collection devices used to draw blood or other fluids from the body; 

venous and arterial access devices used to provide access to patients  veins and arteries; and 

specialty safety devices for needle-based and other applications. 

2

Table of Contents   

Med-Design designs our product technology to be similar to standard non-safety medical devices
in appearance, size, performance and operation. We believe that this similarity is important,
because health care professionals are more likely to accept safety products that do not require a
change in operating technique from products they have traditionally used.

Med-Design has licensed a number of applications of our product technology to medical device
manufacturers, principally Becton Dickinson and Company ( BD ). In one instance, a product
incorporating our product technology is subject to a collaborative arrangement between us and a
device manufacturer. This product is the Safety Huber Needle acquired in April 2004. We will
continue to explore additional opportunities to have selected products manufactured in this manner.

MED-DESIGN PRODUCTS 

Med-Design has designed and developed a number of products incorporating our needle retraction
technology. Our products are similar in appearance, size and performance to standard non-safety
products and are operated in essentially the same manner. A brief description of each of our
products follows:

LICENSED PRODUCTS 

PRODUCTS LICENSED TO BECTON DICKINSON 

BD, a major medical technology company, is the principal licensee of our patented product
technology. Pursuant to two licensing agreements, we have granted BD the exclusive worldwide rights
to manufacture and market our patented product technology in three fields of use: injection
syringe, IV catheters and blood collection. The agreements with BD provide for continuing royalty
payments based upon BD s net sales of the licensed product technology, subject to annual minimums.

The following product technologies are currently under license to BD:

Safety Syringe (fixed needle). After the medication in the syringe has been
delivered, the user applies a light amount of additional pressure in order to move
the plunger slightly beyond the normal stop point, which causes the needle to
automatically and fully retract into the body of the syringe. The fixed needle
Safety Syringe can be manufactured with needles of various gauges and sizes, and
barrels with various sizes. BD currently markets the BD Integra  3ml Syringe,
which incorporates our Safety Syringe technology and was introduced in 2002. 

Safety Syringe (luer needle). The luer needle Safety Syringe is a hypodermic
needle with a mating needle/hub assembly. 

Safety Tuberculin/Insulin Syringe. The Safety Tuberculin/Insulin Syringe is a
smaller version (1ml) of the fixed needle Safety Syringe. BD launched the BD
Integra  1ml Syringe, which incorporates our Safety Tuberculin/Insulin Syringe
technology on a limited scope in the United States in February 2004 with full
launch in January 2005. 

Safety Blood Collection Needle. The Safety Blood Collection Needle is compatible
with substantially all standard blood collection needle accessories. After
sufficient fluids have been extracted from the body, by depressing a conveniently
located button on the barrel of the device, the needle automatically and fully
retracts into the body of the device. The needle seals in place rendering it
harmless and inoperable. BD currently markets the BD Vacutainer  Push Button
Collection Set, which incorporates our Safety Blood Collection Needle technology
and was introduced in December 2003. 

Safety Winged Blood Collection Set. The Safety Winged Blood Collection Set uses
a smaller diameter needle than the Safety Blood Collection Needle and is an
alternative to that device. It is compatible with substantially all standard blood
collection needle accessories. 

3

Table of Contents   

Safety IV Catheter. Catheters are inserted into veins or other areas of the body
using a catheter insertion needle located within the flexible catheter tube. After
the insertion needle is partially removed from the Safety IV Catheter, the needle
automatically and fully retracts into the body of the catheter insertion device.
The needle seals in place rendering it harmless and inoperable. BD currently
markets the Autoguard Pro  Shielded IV Catheter, which incorporates our Safety
IV Catheter technology and was introduced in 2002. 

Safety PICC Introducer. The Safety PICC Introducer is a catheter insertion
device used to insert a peripherally inserted control catheter (PICC) for long term
venous access to deliver fluids into a patient. 

Safety Wing Needle Set/Catheter. The Safety Wing Needle Set/Catheter is used to
continuously deliver fluids into a patient s vein. The sharp end of the needle is
completely shielded within the device, allowing intravenous fluid from a gravity
bag or infusion pump to flow through the retracted steel needle. Upon completion of
the infusion therapy, the Safety Wing Needle Set/Catheter may be removed from the
patient with no possibility of an accidental needle stick. 

The licensing agreement with BD for the Integra  Syringe initially provided for a two-tier
royalty payment. A dispute arose in July 2002 between us and BD as to the appropriate amount of
royalty payment for the BD Integra Syringe. We submitted the dispute to mediation and reached an
agreement in January 2003 that resolved the dispute and provided that BD will pay us a royalty rate
of 2.5% on all sales of the product in the U.S. and in all international markets where our
retracting needle syringe patents are in force. The royalty rate is retroactive to the initial
introduction date of May 2002 for the BD Integra  3ml Syringe and is also applicable to the BD
Integra  1ml Syringe.

ENPATH MEDICAL INC. (FORMERLY MEDAMICUS, INC.) 

Med-Design licensed to Enpath Medical Inc. the Safety Seldinger Device initially for venous
access and subsequently for arterial access. We receive royalties from the sale of the device by
Enpath Medical Inc. The Safety Seldinger Device agreement involves a lower volume, higher margin
product directed to a specialized niche market segment. On December 29, 2004, we entered into
Addendum Number Two to the Development and Licensing Agreement with Enpath Medical for the Safety
Seldinger Device to eliminate the minimum purchase amount required in 2004 for Enpath to maintain
exclusivity under the Development and Licensing Agreement. Revenue for this product was $59,303 for
the year ended December 31, 2005 and $78,581 for the year ended December 31, 2004. We expect that
future royalties from this product will decrease.

MANUFACTURED PRODUCTS UNDER AGREEMENT 

In connection with our efforts to enter into collaborative arrangements for the marketing and
distribution of certain of our product technologies, we determined that we could enhance our
efforts with potential strategic collaborators that do not possess manufacturing capabilities if we
could arrange to have the products manufactured. Plastics Engineering and Development, Inc.
(PEDI) currently manufactures our Safety Huber Needles and New Alliance of Independent Medical
Distributors, Inc. (Alliance Medical) is marketing the product. We assumed ongoing agreements with
PEDI and Alliance Medical when we acquired the Safety Huber Needle business of Luther Needlesafe
Products, Inc. in 2004.

The Safety Huber Needle is used for percutaneous connection to implanted vascular access ports
for the infusion of chemotherapeutic agents.

We acquired this product as part of our acquisition of the Safety Huber Needle business of
Luther Needlesafe Products, Inc. (Luther) in April 2004. The Safety Huber Needle was launched in
the U.S. in October 2003.

4

Table of Contents   

PORTFOLIO PRODUCTS 

Med-Design is seeking to license technology or enter into collaborative arrangements for a
number of additional applications of our technologies described below. All of the products derived
from these applications would incorporate our needle retraction technology.

Safety Pre-filled Dual Chamber Injector. The Safety Pre-filled Dual Chamber Injector allows
medication to be injected directly into a patient from freeze-dried powders produced by many
pharmaceutical manufacturers. In
the first step, sterile water, in one chamber, is introduced into the freeze-dried powder
chamber. This introduction quickly mixes the water and powder, allowing for the injection. The
Safety Pre-filled Dual Chamber Injector can be manufactured with needles of various gauges and
sizes.

Safety Pre-filled Vial Injector. The Safety Pre-filled Vial Injector allows medication to be
injected directly into a patient from pre-filled vials produced by many pharmaceutical
manufacturers. The pre-filled vial is threaded onto the rear end of the stationary plunger and
becomes integrated as a functional part of the plunger. The Safety Pre-filled Vial Injector can be
manufactured with needles of various gauges and sizes.

Safety Arterial Blood Gas Needle. Arterial blood gas needles are used to collect small samples
of arterial blood and deliver the blood to a blood gas analyzer, after which the filled needle
barrel is ready for delivery to a laboratory for analysis. The Safety Arterial Blood Gas Needle is
designed for conventional laboratory processing and attaches to any standard blood gas needle with
a luer fitting, as would a non-safety needle.

Safety Blood Donor Needle Set. The Safety Blood Donor Needle Set is used to collect large
volumes of blood for blood bank storage. The Safety Blood Donor Needle Set is compatible with all
standard blood bag tubing sets and can be manufactured to include a safety blood sampling adapter.

Safety Winged A-V Fistula Needle. Safety Winged A-V Fistula Needles are used to access veins
and arteries to perform a hemodialysis procedure. Hemodialysis removes toxic wastes from the blood
of patients in renal failure.

SALES AND MARKETING 

Med-Design s marketing efforts, with respect to our portfolio products, focus upon
identifying, principally through the use of publicly available information, market leaders in the
pharmaceutical and medical device industries who we believe have either a desire to incorporate
safety applications in their existing products or who have the ability to distribute our products.
We seek collaborative arrangements with these companies under which we would manufacture or arrange
to have manufactured our products or through which our needle retraction technology is applied to
their existing products.

Med-Design s marketing efforts, with respect to our contract manufactured products, focus on
identifying buying groups and distributors through trade shows and business contacts and working
with sales representatives to improve name recognition and knowledge of our products.

In addition to direct marketing efforts, safety needle legislation and our relationship with
BD have increased industry awareness of our products.

5

Table of Contents   

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

Our research and development efforts in the past have focused primarily upon the design and
development of our needle retraction technology and the design and development of specific
applications of our technology for incorporation into the products described above as well as, in
certain instances, the equipment necessary to assemble the products. Research and development
expenses were $879,491, $1,187,835 and $1,484,891 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our
research and development efforts going forward will focus primarily upon:

The modification and improvement of our current product technology in response
to market research and input from health care professionals; and 

The development of new safety medical devices in response to the specific
requests and needs of our licensees and potential strategic collaborators. 

Our research and development staff consisted of one employee as of December 31, 2005.

FACILITIES AND MANUFACTURING 

Med-Design primary focus has been on the design, development and licensing of safety medical
devices. To date, in most cases, our licensees have arranged for manufacturing of products
incorporating the technology licensed from us. In 2004, to enhance our efforts with potential
partners that do not possess manufacturing capabilities, we entered into an OEM Manufacturing
Agreement with PEDI for the manufacture of our Safety Huber Needle. Under the terms of the
agreement, we purchased the equipment, component parts and molds necessary for PEDI to manufacture
the Safety Huber Needle.

Med-Design will continue to explore additional opportunities to manufacture selected products
pursuant to collaborative arrangements in which our strategic collaborators will be responsible for
marketing and distribution. We expect that these products would involve production levels that are
substantially lower than the products of the type licensed to BD.

In July 2003, we were recommended for certification to ISO 13485:1996 by KEMA Registered
Quality, Inc., our notified body. This is a recognized quality standard for medical device
manufacturers that will enable us to apply for international registrations for products we intend
to sell internationally.

We lease an approximately 26,000 square foot facility in Ventura, California. In addition to
our corporate offices, the facility includes space for the following:

A research and development laboratory equipped with assembly and 

Test equipment for concept modeling and product development. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION 

Med-Design products are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) under a number of statutes, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act
(FDCA). The FDA regulates, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture,
packaging, labeling, storage, handling, distribution, advertising and promotion of medical devices
in the United States. Our medical devices must be cleared or approved by the FDA before they can be
sold in the United States.

Historically, our focus has been on the development, design and licensing of medical safety
devices rather than marketing and manufacturing of the devices. Therefore, we had not typically
made the regulatory filings necessary to sell our products. Rather, we have relied on our licensees
and other strategic collaborators to pursue regulatory approvals. We anticipate that we will
continue to rely on our strategic collaborators to seek regulatory compliance if we license our
products to them.

6

Table of Contents   

We have decided to commercially market, through our strategic collaborators, and have
manufactured, through contract manufacturers, some of the products we develop separate from our
current or any future license agreements. We will be required to file for marketing authorization
for these products. The FDCA provides two basic review procedures by which medical devices can
receive FDA marketing authorization. Certain products qualify for a submission authorized by
Section 510(k) of the FDCA. To receive Section 510(k) clearance, a pre-market notification must be
filed with the FDA that a company plans to begin marketing a medical device. The filing must
establish that the medical device is substantially equivalent to another medical device that has
been granted prior FDA pre-market notification clearance or was marketed prior to May 28, 1976, the
date of enactment of the Medical Device Amendments. Marketing may commence when the FDA issues a
letter finding substantial equivalence. If a product does not qualify for Section 510(k) clearance,
a pre-market approval application must be filed. Pre-market approval applications (PMAs) must
demonstrate that the medical device is safe and effective. The
pre-market approval process is typically more complex and time consuming than the Section
510(k) clearance process, and generally requires the submission of laboratory, pre-clinical and
clinical data. Before initiating clinical trials, companies sponsoring such trials often must seek
and obtain an Investigational Device Exemption.

Since we will commercially market and have manufactured some of the products we develop,
separate from our current or any future license agreements, we may be required to file for Section
510(k) clearance, or possibly pre-market approval, for such products. In that case, we would be
subject to device user fees. The Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act, enacted in 2002,
authorizes the FDA to assess and collect user fees for Section 510(k) premarket notifications and
premarket approval applications filed on or after October 1, 2002. Fees for fiscal year 2005 range
from $3,502 for Section 510(k) premarket notifications to $239,237 for PMAs, although fee
reductions are available for companies qualifying as small businesses. If we commercially
manufacture and market devices, we also would be required to comply with FDA post-market reporting
requirements, including the submission of reports on certain adverse events and malfunctions, and
requirements governing the promotion of medical devices. In addition, modifications to our devices
may require the filing of new 510(k) submissions or pre-market approval supplements, and we will
need to comply with FDA regulations governing medical device manufacturing practices. The FDA and
the California Department of Health Services (DHS) require medical device manufacturers to register
as such and subject them to periodic FDA and DHS inspections of their manufacturing facilities. The
FDA requires that medical device manufacturers produce devices in accordance with the FDA s current
Quality System Regulation (QSR), which governs the methods, facilities and controls used for the
design, manufacture, testing, packaging, labeling and storage of medical devices.

There is a different set of regulatory requirements in place for the European Union (EU). In
the EU the company putting a medical device onto the market must comply with the requirements of
the Medical Devices Directive (MDD) and affix the CE mark to the product to attest to such
compliance. To achieve this, the medical devices in question must meet the  essential requirements 
defined under the MDD relating to safety and performance, and the relevant company must
successfully undergo a verification of its regulatory compliance by a third party standards
certification provider, referred to in the legislation as a  Notified Body.  The nature of the
assessment will depend on the regulatory class of products concerned, which in turn determines the
precise form of testing to be undertaken by the Notified Body.

The requirements of the MDD must be complied with by the  manufacturer of the device,  which
is defined as the party responsible for the design, manufacture, packaging and labeling of the
device before it is placed on the EU market, regardless of whether these operations are carried out
by this party or on its behalf.

Accordingly, where medical devices are marketed by our licensees or strategic collaborators
under their names, compliance with the MDD will be their responsibility. In the event that we
decide to manufacture devices to be distributed in the EU market under our name, all compliance
responsibilities will be borne by us.

In the case of devices such as certain versions of the safety pre-filled vial injector, which
incorporates a medicinal product as one integrated product, the regulatory requirements are those
relating to medicines as opposed to devices and an application for a marketing authorization must
be made under Directive 65/65 EEC. However, the safety and performance of the device features of
the integral product are assessed in accordance with the essential requirements of Annex I of the
MDD. Again, if the device is marketed by our licensees or strategic collaborators under their
names, all regulatory compliance obligations will be borne by such licensees or strategic
collaborators. The party responsible for regulatory compliance will be subject to continued
surveillance by the Notified Body and will be required to comply with additional national
requirements that are beyond the scope of the MDD. We currently have no foreign sales.

7

Table of Contents   

COMPETITION 

The safety medical device market is highly competitive. Licensees of our products and our
other strategic collaborators compete in the United States and abroad with the safety products and
standard products manufactured and distributed by companies such as:

Tyco International, Inc. (Kendall Healthcare Products Company), 

B. Braun, 

Terumo Medical Corporation of Japan, and 

Johnson   Johnson. 

Developers of safety medical devices which we compete against for license and collaborative
arrangements with medical device and pharmaceutical companies include:

New Medical Technologies, 

Retractable Technologies, Inc., 

Univec, Inc., 

Specialized Health Products International, and 

Safety Syringes, Inc. 

Traditionally, competition regarding non-safety medical devices was primarily based upon price
with little differentiation between products. We expect that products incorporating our technology
will compete against both safety products and non-safety products based upon safety and ease of use
and disposal. While safety medical devices are priced somewhat higher than equivalent standard
medical devices, we believe that based upon estimated costs associated with accidental
needlesticks, products incorporating our technology should be considered cost effective by the
marketplace. There can be no assurance, however, that purchasers will be willing to pay the
increased price for safety medical devices unless they are mandated to use such devices by laws
such as those passed by the federal government and those passed at the state level in California,
Tennessee, Texas, New Jersey and Maryland.

LEGISLATION 

Regulatory actions at the federal and state level promote the use of safety needles to reduce
the risk of accidental needlesticks. On July 1, 1999, California, through its state Occupational
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) program, began requiring the use of safety needles. Other
states have passed similar legislation.

On November 6, 2000, President Clinton signed the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act
amending OSHA s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard to require that employers implement the use of safer
medical devices in their facilities. To implement the statutory mandates in the Needlestick Safety
and Prevention Act, OSHA issued a number of further revisions to its Bloodborne Pathogens Standard.
The revised standard became effective on April 18, 2001, and imposes several needle device safety
requirements on employers, including:

Evaluation and implementation of safer needle devices as part of the
re-evaluation of appropriate engineering controls during an employer s annual
review of its exposure control plan; 

Documentation of the involvement of non-managerial, frontline employees in
choosing safer needle devices; and 

Establishment and maintenance of a sharps injury log for recording injuries from
contaminated sharps. 

8

Table of Contents   

On November 27, 2001, OSHA issued a compliance directive (CPL 2-2.69) that advises OSHA s
regional offices on the proper interpretation and enforcement of the revised Bloodborne Pathogens
Standard provisions. The compliance directive confirms that the consideration of safer needle
devices in annually reviewing and updating the exposure control plan is a critical element of the
Bloodborne Pathogens Standard. The compliance directive also stresses that the standard requires
employers to use engineering controls (e.g., safer needle devices) if such controls will remove or
eliminate the hazards to employees. As a result of these regulatory actions, the demand for safety
medical devices has increased, and we believe that this demand will continue to increase.

PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS 

Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for
our products, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary
rights of third parties. It is our policy to
protect our intellectual property and maintain the proprietary nature of our technology by
filing patent applications for technology we consider important to the development of our business
and by requiring employees and key consultants to execute non-disclosure and non-compete
agreements.

We have 30 United States patents with expiration dates ranging from April 29, 2007 to July 26,
2021 covering our retractable needle technology and specific product applications based upon our
technology. In addition, we have 31 foreign national patents and 13 European patents covering at
least 10 countries, with expiration dates ranging from November 7, 2010 to August 28, 2019. We also
have 19 United States, 60 foreign national, 7 European and 1 international patent applications
pending. We also have a United States design patent based on one of our products, in addition to 6
foreign national design registrations.

CODE OF ETHICS 

Med-Design has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to all Company directors, officers, and
employees. The Code of Ethics is posted on the Company s website,  www.med-design.com   Investor
Relations: Corporate Governance. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2005, we had 10 full-time employees and 1 part-time employee, most of whom
were located at our corporate offices.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

We maintain a website at www.med-design.com and make available free of charge through this
website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form
8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
furnish it to, the SEC. The material on our website is not part of this report, and the reference
to our website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.

ITEM 1A   RISK FACTORS 

WE HAVE A HISTORY OF NET LOSSES AND ANTICIPATE WE WILL INCUR CONTINUED LOSSES FOR THE FORESEEABLE
FUTURE. 

We have incurred significant losses since inception. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated
deficit was $54,299,781. Among other things, our ability to achieve profitability is dependent
upon:

The successful marketing of products incorporating our technology by licensees; 

The successful marketing of products acquired through purchases; 

Our ability to license additional product technologies that are not currently
subject to licenses or have products incorporating our technology distributed
through joint venture or similar arrangements; and 

Our ability to develop additional products incorporating our core technology. 

9

Table of Contents   

We have licensed to BD several of our product technologies. Four products subject to the
license have been launched to date, the latest of which is the 1ml version of the Integra  in
January 2005. We are unable to predict whether BD s marketing efforts will be successful and
whether the licenses will generate meaningful revenues for us. If our licensees are not successful
in marketing products incorporating our technology, if we are not successful in marketing products
acquired through purchases, such as the Safety Huber Needle, and if we are not successful in
licensing or entering into other suitable arrangements relating to the sale of additional products
incorporating our technology, we may never generate meaningful revenues, in which case our
long-term viability would be threatened.

WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON OUR LICENSING AGREEMENTS WITH BD, AND IF BD IS NOT SUCCESSFUL IN SELLING, OR
DETERMINES NOT TO PURSUE THE SALE OF, PRODUCTS INCORPORATING TECHNOLOGY LICENSED FROM US, OUR
BUSINESS WILL BE HARMED. 

Although we have increased our product sales, to date, a substantial portion of our revenues have
been derived from  up front  license payments made by BD and Enpath Medical Inc. (formerly
Medamicus) under license agreements with us. We anticipate that royalty payments from BD related to
sales of products incorporating our technology will represent a substantial portion of our revenues
for at least the next twelve months. BD has the right to terminate its license agreement with us
upon 60 days  notice and would be subject to no further funding obligations to us with respect to
the products incorporating our technology licensed under the agreement. The ability of BD to sell
products subject to the license agreement will depend on competitive factors and the resources BD
commits to the sale of the products. The extent to which BD commits its resources to the sale of
products is entirely within BD s control. BD is not obligated to pursue the development and
commercialization of these products. Therefore, our licensing arrangements with BD may not result
in the successful commercialization of products incorporating our technology and may not generate
any future royalty payments. If BD terminates the licensing agreements, is unsuccessful in
developing or selling the products subject to the license agreement or otherwise determines not to
pursue the development and sale of these licensed products, our business will be significantly
harmed.

IF WE ENGAGE IN ANY ACQUISITION OR BUSINESS COMBINATION, WE WILL INCUR A VARIETY OF RISKS THAT
COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. 

From time to time we have considered, and should the Merger with a subsidiary of SHPI not
occur for any reason, we will continue to consider in the future, strategic business initiatives
intended to further the development of our business. These initiatives may include acquiring
businesses, technologies or products or entering into a business combination with another company.
For example, we purchased the Safety Huber Needle business from Luther Needlesafe, Inc. on April 1,
2004. The transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of a business. If we continue to pursue
such a strategy, we could, among other things:

Issue equity securities that would dilute our stockholders  percentage
ownership; 

Utilize substantial cash resources and incur substantial debt, which may place
constraints on our operations; 

Spend substantial operational, financial and management resources in integrating
new businesses, technologies and products; 

Assume substantial actual or contingent liabilities; or 

Merge, or otherwise enter into a business combination with, another company, in
which our stockholders would receive cash or shares of the other company, or a
combination of both, on terms that our stockholders might not deem desirable. 

Moreover, any strategic business initiative may not provide anticipated benefits and could, if
unsuccessful, hurt our long-term business prospects.

10

Table of Contents   

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RAISE ADDITIONAL FUNDS AS REQUIRED, WE MAY HAVE TO REDUCE THE SCOPE OF, OR
CEASE, OUR OPERATIONS. 

We believe that we have sufficient funds to support our planned operations and capital
expenditures for at least the next twelve months, should the Merger with a subsidiary of SHPI not
occur for any reason. The availability of resources over a longer term will be dependent on our
ability to enter into licensing agreements and to receive royalty payments from our current and
future licensees, the ability of Alliance Medical to successfully market the Safety Huber Needle
and our ability to enter into, and profitably operate under joint venture or similar arrangements.
If we are unsuccessful in negotiating additional agreements, or if licensing revenues are
insufficient to support operations, we may seek to raise funds through public or private equity
offerings or debt financings.

If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders  percentage
ownership will be
reduced, and our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Any equity securities
issued in future equity offerings may provide rights, privileges or preferences superior to our
common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, we may be subject to
significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through joint ventures or
other collaborations and license arrangements, we may be required to relinquish rights to our
technology or products incorporating our technology or grant licenses on terms that are not
favorable to us.

If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may have to reduce the scope of,
or cease, our operations.

PRODUCTS INCORPORATING OUR TECHNOLOGY MUST RECEIVE REGULATORY APPROVAL IN THE UNITED STATES AND
FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS; WE RELY ON OUR LICENSEES TO OBTAIN SUCH APPROVALS WHEN WE LICENSE OUR
PRODUCT TECHNOLOGY, AND IF THEY ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN OBTAINING OR MAINTAINING APPROVALS, THE SALE
OF PRODUCTS INCORPORATING OUR TECHNOLOGY AND OUR ABILITY TO REALIZE ROYALTY REVENUES WOULD BE
IMPAIRED. 

Products incorporating our technology are medical devices subject to regulation by the United
States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA regulates, among other things, product
manufacture, testing, labeling, packaging, storage, handling, distribution, advertising and
promotion of medical devices in the United States. Medical devices incorporating our technology
must be cleared or approved by the FDA before they can be sold in the United States.

Our licensees pursue regulatory approvals. As a result, our ability to receive royalties from
products incorporating our licensed technology may be impaired or delayed if the licensees do not
devote sufficient resources to the regulatory approval effort. Moreover, obtaining FDA approval or
clearance to market a product can be a lengthy and costly process, which in some cases involves
extensive clinical studies. Our licensees may not be able to obtain the necessary FDA
authorizations to enable marketing of products incorporating licensed technology in a timely
fashion, or at all.

Even if our licensees obtain the necessary approvals or clearances, later problems with the
product could cause the FDA to suspend or revoke the approvals or clearances. Also, if the FDA
authorizes marketing of products incorporating licensed technology, our licensees will be subject
to continuing requirements governing, among other things, modifications made to the products 
labeling, the claims that can be made for the products, reporting of adverse events and recalls and
manufacturing processes. We could confront similar difficulties and obstacles if, in connection
with joint venture or similar arrangements, we directly pursued regulatory approvals or clearances.
Failure to comply with the FDA s requirements can result in issuance of FDA Warning Letters, agency
refusal to approve or clear products, revocation or withdrawal of approvals previously granted,
product seizures, injunctions, recalls, operating restrictions, limitations on continued marketing
and civil and criminal penalties.

There is a different set of regulatory requirements in place for the European Union (EU). To
market a product in the EU a manufacturer must be entitled to affix to the device a CE marking,
which is a European symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with
applicable European medical device directives. A CE marking allows a device to be marketed in all
member states of the EU and accordingly, failure to be entitled to affix a CE marking will prohibit
the marketing of a device anywhere in the EU.

11

Table of Contents   

The responsibilities for compliance with the CE requirements lies with the  manufacturer of
the device,  which is defined in the Medical Devices Directive (MDD) as the party responsible for
the design, manufacture, packaging and labeling of the device before it is placed on the EU market,
regardless of whether these operations are carried out by this party or on its behalf. Accordingly,
we rely upon our licensees and strategic collaborators under whose names products incorporating our
technology are marketed to satisfy the necessary compliance criteria, and if our licensees do not
devote sufficient resources to this process, our ability to receive royalties from the sale of the
products by the licensees and strategic collaborators will be diminished. Furthermore, the
licensees and strategic collaborators may not be able to satisfy the necessary requirements to
allow marketing of products based on our technology in a timely fashion or at all.

In the case of devices incorporating a medicinal product as a single integrated product, such
as the safety pre-filled glass syringe, the regulatory requirements are those relating to medicines
as opposed to devices, in which
case our licensees and, if applicable, our strategic collaborators, must make an application
for a marketing authorization under Directive 2001/83/EC. The application must be made to one EU
country, and if approved, is then mutually recognized in all other remaining EU countries. The
process can be very lengthy, if authorization is granted at all.

Our failure or the failure of our licensees or strategic collaborators to comply with the FDA
and other applicable foreign or domestic regulations could cause our business to be harmed
significantly.

PRODUCTS MANUFACTURED UNDER OUR CONTROL THROUGH A CONTRACT MANUFACTURER MUST RECEIVE REGULATORY
APPROVAL OR CLEARANCE AND IF WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN OBTAINING OR MAINTAINING SUCH APPROVALS OR
CLEARANCES, WE WOULD NOT BE PERMITTED TO SELL THESE PRODUCTS. 

Our Safety Huber Needle is manufactured for us by a contract manufacturer. In addition, should
the Merger not occur for any reason, we plan to manufacture and market additional products
incorporating our technology, through joint ventures or other contractual arrangements under which
third parties manufacture and, in some instances, sell our products. Our current contractual
arrangements require, and any future contractual arrangements into which we enter will require, us
to seek separate clearance or approval by the FDA of these products, to pay user fees for
applications filed and to comply with ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other
post-market information. Moreover, obtaining FDA approval or clearance to market a product can be a
lengthy and costly process, which in some cases involves extensive clinical studies. We may not be
able to obtain the necessary FDA authorizations to enable marketing of products incorporating
licensed technology in a timely fashion, or at all. Even if we obtain the necessary approvals for
clearances, later problems with the product could cause the FDA to suspend or revoke the approvals
or clearances. These arrangements also may involve our assumption of commercial manufacturing
responsibility with respect to some of our products. If we engage in commercial manufacturing, we
will be required to adhere to requirements pertaining to the FDA s current Quality System
Regulation, commonly known as the QSR. The current QSR requirements govern the methods, facilities
and controls used for the manufacture, testing, design, packaging, labeling, storage and
distribution of medical devices. Compliance with QSR requirements will involve continued
expenditure of time, money, and effort. We may not be able to comply with current QSR regulations
or other FDA regulatory requirements, resulting in delay or inability to manufacture the products.
To the extent that we utilize contract manufacturers, those manufacturers will be subject to the
QSR and other requirements described above.

Our failure or the failure of our licensees or contract manufacturers to comply with FDA and
other applicable regulations could cause our business to be harmed significantly.

WE ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR LICENSEES AND CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF PRODUCTS
INCORPORATING OUR TECHNOLOGY. 

We previously have relied on our licensees to arrange for the commercial manufacture of
products incorporating our technology. Our licensees generally manufacture products incorporating
our technology at their own facilities. Pursuant to an agreement we assumed in connection with our
purchase of the Safety Huber Needle business from Luther, PEDI is manufacturing our Safety Huber
Needles. Contracting with third parties or relying on licensees to manufacture products
incorporating our technology presents the following risks:

12

Table of Contents   

Delays in the manufacture of the products could have a material adverse effect
on the marketing of the products; 

The manufacturers may not comply with requirements imposed by the FDA or other
governmental agencies, which are described in the preceding risk factor; 

We may have to share intellectual property rights to improvements in the
manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for the products; 

In those instances where we seek third party manufacturers, we may not be able
to locate acceptable manufacturers or enter into favorable long-term agreements
with them; and 

We may not be able to find substitute manufacturers, if necessary. 

Any of these factors could delay commercialization of products incorporating our technology
and adversely affect the sale of the products and our license or joint venture revenues.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY, OR TO AVOID INFRINGING THE RIGHTS OF
OTHERS, OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY WILL BE IMPAIRED. 

Our intellectual property consists of patents, licenses, trade secrets and trademarks. Our success
depends in part on our ability to:

Obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property; 

Establish and maintain trademarks; 

Operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others; and 

Otherwise maintain adequate protection of our technology and products in the
United States and other countries. 

We have a number of patents and pending United States patent applications relating to our
product technology. Patent applications filed by us or on our behalf may not result in patents
being issued to us. Even if a patent is issued, the patent may not afford protection against
competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar
technology or duplicate our technology.

Our commercial success depends in part on our avoiding the infringement of patents and
proprietary rights of other parties and developing and maintaining a proprietary position with
regard to our own technology and products. We cannot predict with certainty whether we will be able
to enforce our patents. We may lose part or all of our patents as a result of challenges by
competitors. Patents that may be issued, publications relating to technology subject to our patent
applications or other actions could block our ability to obtain patents or to operate as we would
like. Others may develop similar technology or duplicate technology that we have developed or claim
that we are infringing their patents.

We may become involved in litigation or interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office, or oppositions or other intellectual property proceedings outside of the
United States. If any of our competitors have filed patent applications or obtained patents that
claim inventions that we also claim, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding to
determine who has the right to a patent for these inventions in the United States. If a litigation
or interference proceeding is initiated, we may have to spend significant amounts of time and money
to defend our intellectual property rights or to defend against infringement claims of others.
Litigation or interference proceedings could divert our management s time and effort. Even
unsuccessful claims against us could result in significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion
of management time and disruption in our business. Any of these events could harm our ability to
compete and adversely affect our business.

13

Table of Contents   

An adverse ruling arising out of any intellectual property dispute could invalidate or
diminish our intellectual property position. An adverse ruling could also subject us to significant
liability for damages, prevent us from using processes or products, or require us to license
intellectual property from third parties. Costs associated with licensing arrangements entered into
to resolve litigation or an interference proceeding may be substantial and could include ongoing
royalties. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on satisfactory terms.

In addition, we rely on trade secrets to protect technology. We attempt to protect our
proprietary technology by requiring certain of our employees and key consultants to execute
non-disclosure and non-competition agreements. However, these agreements could be breached, and our
remedies for breach may be inadequate. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or
independently discovered by our competitors. If we lose any of our trade secrets, our business and
ability to compete could be harmed.

BECAUSE WE ARE DEPENDENT ON A SINGLE CORE TECHNOLOGY, WE ARE PARTICULARLY VULNERABLE TO THE
DEVELOPMENT OF PRODUCTS INCORPORATING COMPETING TECHNOLOGY AND TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE. 

The majority of the products we have designed and developed to date, and products we currently
intend to design and develop, are based upon our proprietary retraction technology. Our focus on a
single core technology makes us vulnerable to the development of superior competing products and
changes in technology that could eliminate any demand for products incorporating our technology.
Our business would suffer if a superior competing product were developed, or if there were a
reduced demand for products incorporating our technology. Moreover, we may not be able to
successfully develop additional product applications of our technology.

WE ARE DEPENDENT ON KEY PERSONNEL, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RETAIN THESE PERSONNEL, OUR BUSINESS
COULD BE HARMED. 

Our success depends upon the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers and
certain marketing and technical personnel. If any of our key personnel do not continue in their
present capacities, our operations could be materially adversely affected.

PRODUCTS INCORPORATING OUR TECHNOLOGY MAY NOT ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE. 

The use of safety needles is relatively new. Although the market for syringes, fluid
collection devices and infusion therapy devices is large, actual sales of products incorporating
our technology have not been significant. Sales of products incorporating our technology will
depend mostly upon our licensees  ability to demonstrate the operational and safety advantages of
products incorporating our technology compared to standard syringes, fluid collection devices and
infusion therapy devices, and safety medical devices developed by competitors. Our licensees and
others who have contracted to sell products incorporating our technology may be unable to sell
products due to the higher cost of safety medical devices relative to standard medical devices.
There may never be a significant demand for products incorporating our technology.

WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THE SALES AND MARKETING EFFORTS OF OUR LICENSEES AND STRATEGIC COLLABORATORS TO
SELL PRODUCTS INCORPORATING OUR TECHNOLOGY, AND OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER IF OUR LICENSEES OR
STRATEGIC COLLABORATORS DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY MARKET THESE PRODUCTS. 

We currently have limited sales and marketing capabilities, and we do not intend to build a
sales and marketing infrastructure for commercial sales of products incorporating our technology.
Accordingly, we are dependent on our licensees and other strategic collaborators to sell products
incorporating our technology and generate royalties for us. If our licensees and strategic
collaborators do not devote sufficient effort to the sale and marketing of products incorporating
our technology, or are otherwise unsuccessful in marketing these products, our business will
suffer. In this regard, the co-promotion agreement with Abbott Laboratories to co-market our
pre-filled injector products has not been successful.

14

Table of Contents   

WE ARE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS. 

The manufacture and sale of medical devices entails an inherent risk of liability in the event
of product failure or claim of harm caused by product operation. We may not be able to avoid
product liability claims. Although we are unaware of any potential claims, we currently maintain
product liability insurance coverage ($1,000,000 per occurrence and in the aggregate), such
coverage may not be sufficient to protect us or may not remain available at a reasonable cost. If
we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect
against potential product liability claims, we could be severely harmed if a person brings a
successful product liability claim against us.

OUR MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE. 

The safety medical device market is highly competitive. Products incorporating our technology
will compete in the United States and abroad with the safety products and standard products
manufactured and distributed by companies such as:

Tyco International, Inc. (Kendall Healthcare Products Company), 

B. Braun, 

Terumo Medical Corporation of Japan, and 

Johnson   Johnson. 

Developers of safety medical devices against whom we compete include:

New Medical Technologies, 

Retractable Technologies, Inc., 

Univec, Inc., 

Specialized Health Products International, Inc., and 

Safety Syringes, Inc. 

Many of our competitors are substantially larger and better financed than we are and have
more experience in developing medical devices than we do. These competitors may use their
substantial resources to improve their current products or to develop additional products
that may compete more effectively with products incorporating our technology. In addition,
new competitors may develop products that compete with products incorporating our
technology, or new technology may arise that could significantly affect the demand for
products incorporating our technology. We cannot predict the development of future
competitive products or companies. We will be materially adversely affected if we are unable
to compete successfully.

OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE. 

Historically, our stock price, like the market price of the securities of other companies
engaged in the design and development of medical devices, has fluctuated widely. In this regard,
the closing price per share of our stock as reported by Nasdaq declined from $42.15 on July 26,
2001 to $0.56 on March 28, 2006. Should the merger not occur for any reason, our stock price may be
subject to similar future fluctuations in response to:

announcements regarding technological innovations by us or our
competitors; 

the licensing of products or the formation of joint ventures or similar
arrangements by us or our competitors; 

government regulatory action regarding products incorporating our technology; 

the development of new products by us or our competitors; 

general conditions in the medical device industry; 

quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results; and 

15

Table of Contents   

our failure to meet analysts  expectations. 

Investors may lose money upon the resale of our shares.

OUR COMMON STOCK IS SUBJECT TO DILUTION. 

As of December 31, 2005, there were 16,874,486 shares of our common stock issued and
outstanding. In addition, an aggregate of 3,384,101 additional shares of our common stock are
issuable pursuant to stock options granted under our Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan and warrant
agreements. As of March 1, 2006, 254,197 shares of our common stock were available for issuance
under our Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan. Our common stock may be subject to further dilution
should we offer our equity securities in the future.

WE ARE UNLIKELY TO PAY DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK. 

No cash dividends have been paid on our common stock. We anticipate that future earnings, if
any, will be used to finance operations and expand our business. Accordingly, we do not anticipate
that we will pay cash dividends in the future.

PROVISIONS OF OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND THE DELAWARE GENERAL CORPORATION LAW PROVIDE
BARRIERS TO TAKEOVER OFFERS EVEN THOUGH SUCH OFFERS COULD BE BENEFICIAL TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS. 

Should the Merger not occur for any reason various provisions of our certificate of
incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring
shares of our stock.

We have an authorized class of 4,700,000 shares of preferred stock, none of which are issued
and outstanding. The Board of Directors has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue
preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the
preferred stock, including their redemption, dividend and conversion rights. The issuance of
preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control.

Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits a public Delaware
Corporation from engaging in a  business combination  with an  interested stockholder  for a period
of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested
stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner.  Business
combination  is defined to include mergers, asset sales and other specified transactions resulting
in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. An  interested stockholder  is defined as a
person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns (or, within the prior three years, did
own) 15% or more of a corporation s voting stock. Section 203 may discourage transactions in which
our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current price and
may limit our stockholders  ability to approve transactions even if they believe the transaction is
in their best interests.

ITEM 1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS: 

None 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 

We lease a facility of approximately 26,000 square feet in Ventura, California. In addition to
our corporate offices, the facility includes space for the following:

A research and development laboratory equipped with assembly 

Test equipment for concept modeling and product development; 

Our annual lease payments for this facility are approximately $16,300, subject to 3% increases, and
the lease expires on October 31, 2008. We are seeking to find a subtenant for this space.

16

Table of Contents   

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

In November 2005 Becton Dickinson filed a lawsuit in Delaware against Med-Design. The lawsuit
involves inventorship issues concerning certain patent rights owned by Med-Design. We have had
recent negotiations with counsel from Becton Dickinson and anticipate that the inventorship issues
should be resolved with a final Settlement Agreement in the near future and the lawsuit filed by
Becton Dickinson thereafter dismissed.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None 

PART II 

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES 

Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Captial Market under the symbol  MEDC. .On March 17,
2006, Med-Design received a letter from the Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that Med-Design has not
achieved compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing under
Marketplace Rule 4310 (c)(4) and that its common stock was subject to delisting from The Nasdaq
Capital Market on March 24, 2006. Med-Design requested a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing
Qualifications Panel to review the Staff determination, which hearing will take place on April 12,
2006. The hearing stayed the delisting of Med-Design s securities pending the Panel s decision.
There can be no assurance the Panel will grant Med-Design s request for continued listing. Set
forth below are the high and low sales prices of our common stock, as reported by Nasdaq, during
each of the quarterly periods in 2004 and 2005.

MARKET INFORMATION 

On March 28, 2006, the last reported price of our common stock was $0.56.

STOCKHOLDERS 

As of March 22, 2006, we estimate that we had approximately 107 holders of record of our
common stock. We believe that the number of beneficial holders of our stock is greater.

DIVIDENDS 

We have never paid dividends, and should the Merger not occur, we do not anticipate declaring
or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future
earnings for use in our business.

17

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

The following table sets forth selected historical consolidated financial information of
Med-Design with respect to the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001. On April
1, 2004, Med-Design acquired the assets of the Safety Huber Needle business of Luther Needlesafe
Products Inc. Sales of this product in 2004 were $1,011,641, representing 57% of the revenue for
2004. For 2005, product sales were $2,263,132, which represents 67.2% of total revenue for the
year. The information set forth below at December 31, 2005 and 2004 and for the years then ended
is derived from the consolidated financial statements which have been audited by BDO Seidman, LLP,
independent registered public accounting firm, as indicated in their report which is included
elsewhere herein. Med-Design s consolidated financial statements as of, and for the years ended,
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were audited by another auditor. The selected historical
consolidated financial information of Med-Design should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements of Med-Design, and the Notes thereto, included elsewhere herein,
and Med-Design s  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations . Historical results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any
future period.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS 

Overview 

Med-Design is party to the Merger Agreement with SHPI and certain of its subsidiaries. Under
the Merger Agreement, Med-Design will merge with a subsidiary of SHPI, and shares of common stock
of Med-Design will be converted into shares of common stock of SHPI that will represent
approximately 33% of the outstanding common stock of SHPI. The Merger is subject to approval of
stockholders of SHPI and Med-Design and other customary closing conditions. It is anticipated that
a special meeting of stockholders of Med-Design to consider approval and adoption of the Merger
Agreement will be held in early May 2006 and that the transaction will be completed promptly
thereafter.

Med-Design considers the following to be the most important matters on which management
focuses in evaluating its operating performance and financial condition.

Revenue Growth. Med-Design believes that revenue growth is the key factor affecting its
results of operations. Its revenues have historically consisted of royalties and up-front licensing
fees. In 2005, Med-Design recognized a majority of its revenues from sales of its Safety Huber
Needle. Its arrangement regarding the sale of the Safety Huber Needle, under which Med-Design has
contracted for manufacture and distribution of the product and purchased the sublicense rights to
the intellectual property, provides Med-Design with an expanded safety product line and provides
greater potential for per unit revenues than would be the case with a licensed product. Med-Design
believes its short term revenue growth will largely be dependent on its ability to gain market
share in the expanding Safety Huber Needle market and the efforts of Becton Dickinson and Company
( BD ) in selling products incorporating technology licensed from Med-Design. Sales of the Safety
Huber Needle in 2005 were below management s expectations. Med-Design evaluated the realization of
the acquired license rights under SFAS 144 and concluded that there was sufficient undiscounted
cash flows to support the carrying value amount. Med-Design will continue to evaluate the
realization of the assets and record an impairment charge if necessary. Management continues to
provide the distributor of the Safety Huber Needle with sales assistance and other support in an
effort to increase sales of the Safety Huber Needle. Med-Design cannot assure that this effort will
achieve meaningful success.

18

Table of Contents   

The extent to which BD commits its resources to the sale of its licensed technology products
is entirely within BD s control. Management has been disappointed with the pace of
commercialization of these products in the past and has encouraged BD to accelerate its efforts.
Although management is encouraged by the growth in sales of the BD Vacutainer    Push
Button Blood Collection Set and the limited launch of the 1ml version of the Integra  
 Syringe in February 2004, management expected greater revenues to be generated in 2005.

Med-Design received royalties from the sale of the Safety Seldinger Device from Enpath
Medical, Inc. (formerly Medamicus). Royalties from this product were approximately $120,000 in 2003
and declined to approximately $59,303 in 2005. Enpath s major customer decided to use a non-safety
version of Seldinger, and sales declined significantly. On December 29, 2004, Med-Design entered
into Addendum Number Two to the Development and Licensing Agreement with Enpath Medical, Inc. for
the Safety Seldinger Device to eliminate the minimum purchase requirement to maintain exclusivity.
We expect the future royalties from this product will decrease.

Management was also disappointed with the sales of the 1Shot Safety Dental Syringe. This
product, which Med-Design had contract manufactured, was launched in June 2003. Revenue was
approximately $19,000 in 2004, $720 in 2005. In the first quarter of 2005, Med-Design assessed
the position of the 1 Shot Safety Dental Syringe in the marketplace and its relationship with the
exclusive distributor of the product, Sultan Chemists, and decided to discontinue production of the
product.

Med-Design relies on its licensees to provide it with sales information in order to calculate
the royalties due to Med-Design as a result of sales. While Med-Design has to date relied on this
sales information without independent verification, it is currently developing appropriate
procedures to verify this information in the future and will have such information audited when it
deems it appropriate.

Liquidity. Med-Design has historically generated cash principally from issuances of equity and
up-front licensing fees. In 2005, revenue from sales of the Safety Huber Needle and the royalty
payments from BD also contributed cash but considerably less than necessary to support operations.
Although Med-Design believes that its cash and available for sale securities are sufficient to
support ongoing operations for at least the next twelve months, should the merger not occur,
Med-Design s ultimate success depends on our ability to generate sufficient revenues to support
operations. If Med-Design could not generate sufficient revenues to support operations, it would
likely have to rely upon debt or equity financing. There is no assurance Med-Design will be able to
obtain such financing.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 

Total revenue was $3,366,108 in 2005, as compared to revenue of $1,773,507 in 2004. Revenue
in 2005 reflects $2,263,132 in sales of the Safety Huber Needle, royalties of $992,953 from BD and
$59,303 from Enpath Medical, Inc., $50,000 in development fees from Atrix Labs and $720 in sales
from the Safety Dental Syringe. Revenue in 2004 reflected $1,011,641 in sales of the Safety Huber
Needle, all of which occurred after Med-Design s acquisition of the Safety Huber Needle Business in
April 2004, royalties of $664,341 from BD and $78,581 from Enpath Medical Inc., and $18,944 from
sales of the 1 Shot Safety Dental Syringe.

Product costs, which consist of $1,375,949 direct and indirect costs related to Med-Design s
contract manufactured products, the amortization of the investment in acquired licensed rights of
$396,828, consulting expense of $99,996 and a write off of inventory of $260,093, were $2,132,866
for2005. Product costs for 2004 consisted of $942,535 of direct and indirect costs related to
Med-Design s contract manufactured products, the amortization of the investment is acquired
licensed rights of $297,622, consulting expense of $75,000 and a write off of obsolete inventory of
$154,000 due to design change.

General and administrative expenses were $4,624,441 in 2005, a decrease of $817,131 as
compared to $5,441,572 in 2004. The decrease in general and administrative expenses was due
primarily to a decrease in stock based compensation of $398,538, a decrease in accounting fees
related to the Sarbanes Oxley Act of $250,000, a decrease in expenditures for employee compensation
of $146,043 and a decrease in travel expenses of $98,000, offset by increases in the Merger
transactional expenses of $452,000.

19

Table of Contents   

Research and development expenses were $879,491 in 2005, a decrease of $308,344 as compared to
research and development expenses of $1,187,835 in 2004. The decrease was due primarily to a
reduction of expenditures for employee compensation. Med-Design has focused its R D activities on
design changes to the Safety Huber Needle driven by the preferences expressed by potential
customers and therefore Med-Design is comfortable reducing employee related expenditures.

Interest income was $478,545 in 2005, a decrease of $113,043 as compared to $591,588 in 2004.
The decrease was due to a decrease in invested cash as a result of its being used in the operations
of the business and for reduction of the long-term payable.

Realized loss on investments was $334,167 for year ended December 31, 2005. Med-Design
divested its investments in securities with maturities over 20 months in accordance with the
provisions of the Merger Agreement with SHPI, which generated realized losses that we would not
have ordinarily sustained.

Included in the operating loss for the year ended December 31, 2005 is the write off of fixed
assets of $464,397 related to the Safety Dental Syringe, a product Med-Design discontinued in the
first quarter of 2005. Also goodwill of $232,053 related to the acquisition of the Safety Huber
Needle business was written off in the fourth quarter of 2005.

Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 

Total revenue was $1,773,507 in 2004, as compared to revenue of $826,725 in 2003. Revenue in
2004 reflects $1,011,641 in sales of the Safety Huber Needle, all of which occurred after
Med-Design s acquisition of the Safety Huber Needle business in April 2004, royalties of $664,341
from BD and $78,581 from Enpath Medical, Inc. and $18,944 from sales of the1Shot Safety Dental
Syringe. Revenue in 2003 reflected sales of the 1Shot Safety Dental Syringe of $168,471 and royalty
payments from the sale of Med-Design s licensed products of $658,254.

Product costs, which consist of $942,535 direct and indirect costs related to Med-Design s
contract manufactured products, the amortization of the investment in acquired licensed products of
$297,622, consulting expense of $75,000 and a write-off of inventory obsolete due to design change
of $154,000, were $1,469,581 for the period ended December 31, 2004. Product costs for the period
ended December 31, 2003 consisted of direct and indirect costs related to the Safety Dental Syringe
sales of $153,953.

General and administrative expenses were $5,441,572 in 2004, a decrease of $486,141 as
compared to general and administrative expenses of $5,927,713 in 2003. The decrease was primarily
due to a reduction of charges for stock based compensation of $1,011,389 offset by increases in
professional and technical fees and audit fees of approximately $480,000 related to implementing
internal controls principally to effect compliance with the applicable provisions of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.

Research and development expenses were $1,187,835 in 2004, a decrease of $297,056, as compared
to research and development expenses of $1,484,891 in 2003. The decrease was due primarily to a
reduction in expenditures for employee compensation resulting from a reduction in work force.
Med-Design has focused its R D activities on design changes to its current portfolio driven by the
preferences expressed by potential customers, and therefore Med-Design is comfortable reducing
employee related expenditures.

Investment income was $591,588 in 2004, a decrease of $64,653 as compared to $526,935 in 2003.
The decrease was due to a decrease in invested cash resulting from the purchase of the assets of
the Safety Huber Needle business.

Realized loss on investments were $401,319 for the year ended December 31, 2004. Med-Design
sold fixed income securities which yielded lower rates of interest to avoid further deterioration
of its portfolio in a rising interest market. The securities were sold in September 2004 at a loss
of $340,000.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

At December 31, 2005 our cash, cash equivalents and available for sale securities totaled
$9,940,827, as compared to $14,600,270 at December 31, 2004, a decrease of $4,659,443, or 31.9%.

20

Table of Contents   

In 2005, Med-Design s principal sources of cash were $1,052,256 of royalties from the sale of
its licensed products, $2,263,852 from the sale of its contract manufactured products and the net
sale of investment securities of $1,548,679. However, available for sale securities decreased by
$1,779,889 from 2004 to 2005. In 2004 Med-Design s principal sources of cash were $1,116,614 of
royalties from the sale of our licensed products, $928,173 from the sale of our contract
manufactured products and the net sale of investment securities of $8,811,613. However, available
for sale securities decreased by $9,195,030 from 2003 to 2004. In 2003, Med-Design s principal
source of cash were the proceeds of approximately $16,000,000 from our August 2003 private
placement of common stock, the $2,241,329 of cash generated from the sale of Enpath Medical, Inc.
common stock and royalties of $329,398 from the sale of Med-Design s licensed products.

Med-Design s primary uses of cash in 2005 consisted of general and administrative costs,
including cash payments of $2,097,679 for salaries, research and development costs, transactional
expenses and the payment of the long-term payable. Med-Design s primary uses of cash in 2004
consisted of general and administrative costs, including cash payments of $2,036,799 for salaries
and research and development costs and the purchase of the Safety Huber Needle business of
$5,901,240. General and administrative costs in 2003 included cash payments of $2,115,645 for
salaries and research and development costs.

At December 31, 2005, Med-Design had a revolving line of credit under which the Company may
borrow up to $3,000,000 with Wells Fargo Bank. The facility is collateralized by the Company s
investments held by Wells Fargo Bank. Any borrowing would bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.75%.
There are no financial covenants. The facility expires on July 31, 2006 and there is no assurance
that the Company will be successful in negotiating a continuation of the availability of the line
of credit or term that will be available to the Company, should the Merger not occur. There are no
amounts outstanding under the agreement.

Med-Design believes that it has sufficient funds to support its planned operations for at
least the next twelve months, should the merger not occur. The availability of resources over a
longer term will be dependent on our ability to increase sales of our manufactured products and
royalty payments we receive from our licensees, enter into new licensing agreements, enter into and
profitably operate under collaborative arrangements, and raise additional equity or debt financing.
Med-Design has not generated sufficient cash flows from operations to support its operations on an
on-going basis and anticipate that it may need to seek additional sources of funding in the future.
If Med-Design is unsuccessful in negotiating additional agreements, or if licensing revenues and
revenues from sales of Med-Design s manufactured products are insufficient to support its
operations, Med-Design may be required to reduce the scope of, or cease, its operations.

Contractual Obligations 

Med-Design s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 consist of the following:

During 2003, Med-Design renewed our lease for office space in Ventura, California. The
renewal is for five years beginning November 1, 2003 and terminating October 31, 2008. The current
base rent is $16,243 per month and can be increased annually by 3%.

On October 14, 2004, James M. Donegan resigned as President and Chief Executive Officer of
Med-Design. Mr. Donegan and Med-Design executed a Separation Agreement and Release on October 14,
2004. Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Donegan has, and will continue to, make himself available on
a part-time basis for consultation with Med-Design. Med-Design will pay Mr. Donegan an aggregate
of $497,275 of which $346,304 was paid in bi-weekly installments through November 15, 2005 with the
remaining balance of $150,971 paid or to be paid in bi-weekly installments from November 15, 2005
to November 16, 2006. In addition, Med-Design also accelerated 120,000 shares of Med-Design common
stock at an exercise price of $3.25 per share, and granted options to purchase 30,000 shares of
common stock at an exercise price of $0.92 per share. Med-Design also paid, through April 30,
2005, $2,500 per month to cover Mr. Donegan s rent and utilities, and agreed to provide all
benefits accrued or earned as of the date of the agreement.

21

Table of Contents   

In November 2005, Med-Design agreed to prepay in full, in January 2006, its obligations set
forth in the table above under the Luther Agreement and the Luther consulting agreement. In
November 2005, Med-Design entered into an agreement to repay, at a discount, its obligations under
the Luther Asset Purchase Agreement and Consulting Agreement. In January 2006, Med-Design paid
$641,667. Of the payment, $442,529 was designated as payment in-full of the long-term liability in
connection with the Asset Purchase Agreement and $199,138 was designated as a prepayment of the
remaining obligations of the Consulting Agreement. The recorded amount of the long-term liability
at the time of payment was $482,284, net of discount. The Company will recognize a gain of $39,755
on the extinguishment of the liability equal to the difference between the book value and payment
in the first quarter of 2006.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

In preparing our financial statements, Med-Design is required to make estimates and
assumptions that, among other things, affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
reported amounts of revenues and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are most significant
where they involve levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain
matters or matters susceptible to change, and where they can have a material impact on Med-Design s
financial condition and operating performance. Med-Design discusses below the more significant
estimates and related assumptions used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements.
If actual results were to differ materially from the estimates made, the reported results could be
materially affected.

Patents. Med-Design capitalizes costs incurred in connection with patent acquisitions and
patent applications. These costs are amortized using the straight line method over the estimated
useful life of the patents, not to exceed the legal life. The statutory legal life of a patent is
20 years from the date of application. The carrying value of the patents are regularly reviewed by
management for impairments whenever events or changes and circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount may not be recoverable. Impairments, if any, are recognized when the expected future cash
flows derived from the patent is less than the carrying value. The estimates of useful lives of the
patents and expected future cash flows are based on a number of factors including product demand,
market conditions, technology developments and the activities of Med-Design s competitors.
Med-Design does not believe that the value of any of its patents are impaired and does not believe
that it is likely that there will be a change in the future. Historically, Med-Design has never
recorded an impairment to the value of its patent portfolio. If future events or evaluations cause
Med-Design s management to conclude that the value of one or more patents is impaired, Med-Design
may recognize significant losses, and its financial condition may be negatively affected, in the
future.

Investment in Acquired License Rights. Med-Design acquired the Safety Huber Needle business of
Luther Needlesafe Products, Inc. Med-Design amortized the acquired license rights over 16 years,
which represents both the term of the sublicense agreement and the expiration date related to the
patent. The carrying value of the investment and the related estimated remaining lives are
evaluated at each balance sheet date. An impairment or change in useful life would be recorded
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable or the useful life has changed in accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the
Impairment of Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. 

Recoverability of Long-Lived Assets and Goodwill. Med-Design tests long-lived assets,
including property and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, for recoverability whenever
events or change in circumstances indicate that Med-Design may not be able to recover the asset s
carrying amount. When events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may exist,
Med-Design evaluates the recoverability by determining whether the undiscounted cash flows expected
to result from the use and eventual disposition of that asset cover the carrying value at the
evaluation date. If the undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the carrying value.
Med-Design measures any impairment loss as the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its
fair value.

Med-Design conducts a review for impairment of goodwill at least annually. Additionally, on an
interim basis, Med-Design assesses the impairment of goodwill whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that Med-Design
considers important which could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance
relative to historical or expected future operating results, significant changes in the manner or
use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business, significant negative industry
or economic trends or a decline in a company s stock price for a sustained period. We tested
goodwill for impairment and determined that the carrying amount of the repairing unit exceeded the
fair value indicating goodwill was impaired. Med-Design wrote-off goodwill of $232,053 in the
fourth quarter of 2005.

22

Table of Contents   

Estimates of recovery of carrying values of long-lived assets are based on a number of
assumptions which may not prove to be correct. In addition, it is reasonably possible that
Med-Design s accounting estimates with respect to the ultimate recoverability of the carrying value
of long-lived assets could change in the near term and that the effect of such changes on
Med-Design s Consolidated Financial Statements could be material. While Med-Design believes that
the current recorded carrying values of its long-lived assets are not impaired, there can be no
assurance that a significant write-down or write-off will not be required in the future.

Available for Sale Securities. Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value, based
on quoted market prices, with the net unrealized gain or loss reported as a component of
 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)  in stockholders  equity.

Med-Design records an impairment charge when it believes an investment has experienced a
decline in value that is other-than-temporary. In determining if a decline in market value below
cost for a publicly traded security is other-than-temporary, Med-Design evaluates the relevant
market conditions, offering prices, trends of earnings, price multiples and other key measures.
When a decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, Med-Design recognizes an impairment
loss in the current period to the extent of the decline below the carrying value of the investment.
Factors involved in the determination of potential impairment include fair value as compared to
amortized cost, length of time the value has been below amortized cost, credit worthiness of the
issuer, forecasted financial performance of the issuer, position of the security in the issuer s
capital structure, the presence and estimated value of collateral or other credit enhancement,
length of time to maturity, interest rates and Med-Design s intent and ability to hold the security
until the market value recovers. Adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of
underlying investments could result in additional other-than-temporary losses in future periods.
Moreover, if management s evaluation is not correct, Med-Design may recognize significant
impairment losses in later periods.

Revenue Recognition. Med-Design recognizes revenue in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting
Bulletin (SAB) No. 104,  Revenue Recognition.  SAB No. 104 requires that four basic criteria must
be met before revenue can be recognized: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2)
delivery has occurred or services rendered; (3) the fee is fixed and determinable; and (4)
collectibility is reasonably assured. Determination of criteria (3) and (4) require Med-Design s
management s judgments regarding the fixed nature of the fee charged for services rendered and
products delivered and the collectibility of those fees. To satisfy the criteria, Med-Design: (1)
inputs orders based upon receipt of a customer purchase order; (2) records revenue upon shipment of
goods when risk of loss and title transfer under our arrangements with customers or otherwise
complying with the terms of the purchase order; (3) confirms pricing through the customer purchase
order and; (4) validates creditworthiness through past payment history, credit agency reports and
other financial data. Other than through warranty rights, Med-Design s customers do not have
explicit or implicit rights of return. Should changes in conditions cause management to determine
the revenue recognition criteria are not met for certain future transactions, such as a
determination that an outstanding account receivable has become uncollectible, revenue recognized
for any reporting period could be adversely affected.

Income Taxes. Med-Design accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes .
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and
their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted tax
rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are
expected to be recovered or settled. A valuation allowance is recorded for deferred tax assets
where it appears more likely than not that Med-Design will not recover the deferred tax asset.

Med-Design experienced an ownership change as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 382 in
1997. Losses incurred through January 23, 1997 amounting to $4.9 million are generally limited in
their utilization to $1.7 million per year. It is possible that recent or future ownership changes
may result in further limitations under Section 382.

New Accounting Pronouncements 

In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard ( SFAS ) No.151,  Inventory Costs ( SFAS 151 ). SFAS 151 amends
Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43 ( ARB 43 ), Chapter 4 to clarify the accounting for abnormal
amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). SFAS 151
is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The
adoption of SFAS 151 is not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition or
results of operations.

23

Table of Contents   

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R,  Share-Based Payment.  ( SFAS 123R ) SFAS 123R
establishes that employee services received in exchange for share-based payment result in a cost
that should be recognized in the income statement as an expense when the services are consumed by
the enterprise. It further establishes that those expenses be measured at fair value determined as
of the grant date. Med-Design previously applied Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No.
25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB 25 ) and FASB Interpretation No. 44,
 Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation  in accounting for its stock
plans. Med-Design previously adopted the disclosure only provisions of SFAS N0. 123,  Accounting
for Stock Based Compensation.  SFAS 123R is effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 123R is expected to increase stock-based compensation expense.
Med-Design is currently assessing the impact of the accounting standard on Med-Design s results of
operations and financial position.

We have adopted this standard effective January 1, 2006 and elected the modified-prospective
transition method. Under the modified prospective transition method, awards that are granted,
modified, repurchased or cancelled after the date of adoption should be measured and accounted for
in accordance with SFAS No. 123, except that stock option expense for unvested options must be
recognized in the statement of operations.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154  Accounting Changes and Error Correction  ( SFAS
154 ). SFAS 154 establishes new standards on accounting for changes in accounting principles.
Pursuant to the new rules, all such changes must be accounted for by retrospective application to
the financial statement of prior periods unless it is impractical to do so. SFAS 154 replaces APB
Opinion No. 20 and SFAS 3, though it carries forward the guidance in those pronouncements with
respect to accounting for changes in estimates, changes in the reporting entity, and the correction
of errors. SFAS 154 is effective for the accounting changes and error corrections made in fiscal
years beginning after December 15,2005, with early adoption permitted after May 2005. The adoption
of SFAS 154 is not expected to have a material effect on Med-Design s financial condition or
results of operation.

In November 2005, the FASB issued Staff Position No. FAS 115-1, The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments ( FSP 115-1 ). FSP
115-1 provides accounting guidance for determining and measuring other-than-temporary impairments
of debt and equity securities, and confirms the disclosure requirements for investments in
unrealized loss positions as outline in EITF issue 03-01, The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary
Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments. The accounting requirements of FSP 115-1
are effective for January 1, 2006 and are not expected to have a material impact on Med-Design s
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

There were no amounts outstanding under our revolving line of credit at December 31, 2005. If
we were to borrow under our credit facility, borrowings to meet working capital needs would bear
interest at LIBOR plus 2.25% and borrowings to finance capital equipment purchases would bear
interest at the prime rate plus 2.5%. As a result, any such borrowings would be subject to interest
rate fluctuations which could increase our interest expense, respectively.

We invest a portion of excess cash in marketable securities in accordance with our investment
guidelines as approved by our Board of Directors. These investments include corporate debt
securities and U.S. government and agencies securities. These investments are in highly liquid, low
risk securities where our risk of loss is at a minimum.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

Incorporated by reference from the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of
Med-Design which are attached hereto beginning on page F-1.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. 

None.

24

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

(a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management, with the participation of our Acting Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the
end of the period covered by this report. Disclosure controls and procedures are defined in SEC
regulations as controls and other procedures of an issuer that are designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by the issuer in the reports that it files or submits under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, summarized and reported within the
time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include,
without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by an issuer in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to the issuer s management, including its
principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on their evaluation, the
Acting Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that these controls were not
effective as of December 31, 2005 due to the application of generally accepted accounting
principles in connection with the classification of the disposal of the 1 Shot
Safety Dental Syringe business in the previously filed quarterly statements which was discovered subsequent
to December 31, 2005. Med-Design remediated this during the December 31, 2005 year closing
procedures by implementing additional review procedures and the Med-Design properly classified the
write-off of fixed assets of the 1 Shot Safety Dental Syringe in the year ended December 31, 2005.
A control system cannot provide absolute assurance that the objectives of the controls system are
met, and no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and
instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been detected.

(c) Change in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

No change in our internal control over financial reporting occurred during our most recent
fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting except as note above.

PART III 

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

This information will be included in an amendment to this Form 10-K, which will be filed
within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year covered by this report.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

This information will be included in an amendment to this Form 10-K, which will be filed
within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year covered by this report.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS 

This information will be included in an amendment to this Form 10-K, which will be filed
within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year covered by this report.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

This information will be included in an amendment to this Form 10-K, which will be filed
within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year covered by this report.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

This information will be included in an amendment to this Form 10-K, which will be filed
within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year covered by this report.

25

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a) Documents filed as part of this Report:

1. Financial Statements. The following financial statements and notes thereto of Med-Design which
are attached hereto beginning on page F-1, have been incorporated by reference into Item 8 of this
Report on Form 10-K:

2. All schedules are omitted because they are inapplicable, or not required, or the information is
shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.

(b) List of Exhibits. The following is a list of exhibits filed as part of this annual report on
Form 10-K. Where so indicated by footnote, exhibits which were previously filed are incorporated by
reference.

Table of Contents   

* 
       
     Constitutes management contract or compensatory plan or
arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K 

Table of Contents   

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION 

Date: March 29, 2006  
     By:   
     DAVID R. DOWSETT

David R. Dowsett 
Acting Chief Executive Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION 

Date: March 29, 2006  
     By:   
     
DAVID R. DOWSETT

David R. Dowsett  

Acting Chief Executive Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

Table of Contents   

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-1

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of The Med-Design Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Med-Design Corporation (the
 Company ) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders  equity and comprehensive loss and cash flows for the years then ended. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its
internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control
over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing and opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An
audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

/s/ BDO Seidman LLP

Los Angeles, California 
March 29, 2006

F-2

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of The Med-Design Corporation:

In our opinion, the consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity and comprehensive
loss, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2003 (appearing on pages F-5 through F-8) in this Form 10-K present fairly, in all material respects, the results of operations and
cash flows of the Med-Design Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2003 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit of these statements in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
March 5, 2004

F-3

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 
AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 
 
F-7

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1. NATURE OF BUSINESS

The Med-Design Corporation and its subsidiaries ( Med-Design  or the  Company ) are principally
engaged in the design, development and licensing and contract manufacture of safety medical devices
intended to reduce the incidence of accidental needlesticks. Each safety medical device the Company
designs and develops incorporates the Company s proprietary needle retraction technology. The
Company s technology enables health care professionals to retract a needle into the body of the
medical device for safe disposal without any substantial change in operating technique.
Med-Design s product technology generally can be categorized into the following five groups:
hypodermic syringes used to inject drugs and other fluids into the body; fluid collection devices
used to draw blood or other fluids from the body; injectors used to inject drugs and other fluids
into the body from a pre-filled cartridge, vial or capsule; infusion therapy devices used to
provide access to patients  vessels; and specialty safety devices for needle based and other
applications.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION: 

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of The Med-Design
Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries, MDC Investment Holdings, Inc. and MDC Research Ltd.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS: 

Med-Design considers all bank depository cash accounts with initial maturities of three months or
less to be cash equivalents.

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK: 

Financial instruments, which potentially subject Med-Design to concentration of credit risk,
consist principally of cash and available-for-sale-securities. At times, Med-Design s cash balances
exceed FDIC insurance limits. The Company invests cash balances in financial institutions with high
credit ratings.

Med-Design invests in high credit quality financial instruments and, through diversification,
attempts to limit the extent of credit exposure on available-for-sale-securities.

The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers  financial condition and limits
the amount of credit extended when deemed necessary, but generally does not require collateral.
Revenue and accounts receivable from significant customers representing 10% of total revenues were
as follows:

F-8

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE-SECURITIES: 

Med-Design s investments are classified as available-for-sale securities and, accordingly, any
unrealized holding gains or losses, net of taxes, are excluded from income and recognized as a
separate component of stockholders  equity until realized. Investments in marketable securities are
made consistent with Med-Design s investment guidelines as developed by management and approved by
the board of directors. Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value, based on quoted
market prices, with the net unrealized gain or loss reported as a component of  Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss)  in stockholders  equity.

The Company records an impairment charge when it believes an investment has experienced a decline
in value that is other-than-temporary. In determining if a decline in market value below cost for a
publicly traded security is other-than-temporary, the Company evaluates the relevant market
conditions, offering prices, trends of earnings, price multiples and other key measures. When a
decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the Company recognizes an impairment loss in
the current period to the extent of the decline below the carrying value of the investment. Factors
involved in the determination of potential impairment include for value as compared to amortized
cost, length of time the value has been below amortized cost, credit worthiness of the issuer,
forecasted financial performance of the issuer, position of the security in the issuer s capital
structure, the presence and estimated value of collateral or other credit enhancement, length of
time to maturity, interest rates and our intent and ability to hold the security until the market
value recovers.

Adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could
result in additional other-than-temporary losses in future periods.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT: 

Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost. Significant additions or improvements extending
the assets  useful lives are capitalized. When property, plant and equipment are sold, retired or
otherwise disposed of, the applicable costs and accumulated depreciation are removed from the
accounts and the resulting gain or loss recognized.

Depreciation is computed by the straight-line method, utilizing rates based upon the estimated
service life of the various classes of assets. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the
remaining lease term or asset life if shorter.

SEGMENT REPORTING 

Segment Reporting: SFAS No. 131,  Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information  requires a business enterprise, based upon a management approach, to disclose
financial and descriptive information about its operating segments. Operating segments are
components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available and regularly
evaluated by the chief operating decision maker(s) of an enterprise. The Company has one business
segment, which consists of the design, development and licensing and contract manufacture of safety
medical devices.

F-9

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS: 

The Company evaluates the recoverability of long-lived assets except for goodwill and the related
estimated remaining lives at each balance sheet date. An impairment or change in useful life would
be recorded whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not
be recoverable or the useful life has changed in accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the
Impairment of Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. 

In the first quarter of 2005, the Company assessed the position of the 1Shot    Safety Dental
Syringe in the marketplace and the Company s relationship with the exclusive distributor of the
product, Sultan Chemists. As a result of the Company s assessment, Sultan Chemist determined to
discontinue production of the product and exit the business. This decision resulted in the
write-off of equipment of $464,397, which the Company recorded during the quarter ended March 31,
2005 and is presented separately as an operating expense in the consolidated statement of
operations. Due to immateriality, the Company has not reflected the operations of the 1Shot   
Safety Dental Syringe separately as a discontinued operation of any period.

During the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and there were no impairments of long-lived
assets.

PATENTS: 

Patents, patent applications, and patent rights are stated at acquisition costs. The
weighted-average amortization period for patents acquired was 16 years, 17 years and 18 years for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Amortization of patents is recorded
by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the patents, not to exceed the legal
life. Patent amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was
$213,691, $203,567 and $184,058, respectively. The estimated aggregate amortization expense for
2006 through 2010 is $218,159 per year.

INVESTMENT IN ACQUIRED LICENSE RIGHTS: 

On April 1, 2004, Med-Design acquired the assets of the Safety Huber Needle business of Luther
Needlesafe Products, Inc., which has been accounted for as an acquisition of a business in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 along with the guidance in EITF
98-3, Determining Whether a Non-monetary Transaction Involves Receipt of Production Assets or of a
Business. The Company amortizes acquired license rights over 16 years, which represents both the
term of the underlying sublicense agreement and expiration date of the related patent. Amortization
expense for the acquired license rights was $396,828 and $297,623 for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004. The estimated aggregate amortization expense for 2006 through 2010 is $396,828 per
year.

GOODWILL RESULTING FROM BUSINESS ACQUISITION: 

The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
( SFAS ) No. 142. SFAS No. 142 addresses the accounting and reporting of goodwill subsequent to its
acquisition. SFAS No. 142 provides that goodwill will no longer be amortized. Goodwill of a
reporting unit is tested for impairment on an annual basis or between annual tests if an event
occurs or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its
carrying amount.

We tested goodwill for impairment and determined that the carrying amount of the reporting unit
exceeded the fair value indicating goodwill was impaired. Med-Design appropriately wrote off
goodwill of $232,053 in the fourth quarter of 2005.

F-10

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

REVENUE RECOGNITION: 

Fees received in connection with the entry into licensing contracts for the Company s patented,
proprietary products are recorded as revenue following the execution of a binding agreement, and
when the Company has fulfilled its obligations under the arrangement or when Med-Design s only
remaining obligation is to maintain and defend the licensed patent rights.

Royalties received on licensed products which are based on the licensee s product volume are
recorded as revenue in the period when the royalty payments are earned. Minimum contractual royalty
payments related to licensed products are recorded as revenue during the period to which the
minimum payments relate.

Revenues from the sale of the Safety Dental Needle were recorded upon acknowledgement of receipt of
the product by our distributor, Sultan Chemists. Title and risk of loss are the Company s
obligation until acknowledgement by the customer per the contract.

Revenues from the sale of the Safety Huber Needle are recorded upon shipment of the product to the
Company s distributor. Title and risk of loss are the buyer s obligation upon shipment per
contract.

Sales returns and allowances are recorded as an adjustment of revenue when they occur. Med-Design
historically has experienced an immaterial number of returns and does not believe that experience
affects its revenue recognition at this time.

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE: 

Med-Design does not believe an allowance for doubtful accounts is necessary. Historically, the
Company has collected 100% of its outstanding receivables. The majority of Med-Design s receivables
have historically been related to royalty revenue with manufacturing companies and large
distributors that have substantial financial means and a history of timely payment to the Company.

INCOME TAXES: 

Med-Design accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences
between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected
to be recovered or settled. A valuation allowance is recorded for deferred tax assets where it
appears more likely than not that the Company will not be able to recover the deferred tax asset.

INVENTORY: 

Inventory consist of component parts and finished goods, and is valued at the lower of cost or
market. Cost is determined using the first-in first-out ( FIFO ) basis. In February 2005,
Med-Design, in an effort to reduce product cost, began purchasing raw materials related to the Safe
Step    Safety Huber Needle directly from suppliers instead of its subcontract manufacturers.
In making this change, Med-Design agreed to purchase all existing inventory on hand related to the
product from this contract manufacturer. The inventory purchased for some parts represented years
of usage and Med-Design accordingly established a reserve for all excess inventory purchased. At
December 31, 2005, the balance of excess inventory is $61,500.

F-11

Table of Contents   

PRODUCT COST: 

Product cost includes direct expenditures for material, packaging, sterilization, freight,
amortization of investment in acquired license rights and consulting expense related to the
acquisition of the Safety Huber Needle business. The Company also allocates some of its overhead
(labor, use of facilities and depreciation) to product cost.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT: 

Expenditures relating to the development of new products and processes, including significant
improvements and refinements to existing products, are expensed as incurred.

F-12

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

STOCK BASED COMPENSATION: 

The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees  ( APB 25 ) and the Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 44,
 Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation,  in accounting for its stock
plans. The Company has adopted the disclosure only provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ). Had compensation expense
for Med-Design s Stock Option Plan been recorded based on the fair value of the options and
warrants at the grant dates in 2005, 2004 and 2003, consistent with the provisions of SFAS 123,
Med-Design s net loss and net loss per share would have reflected the pro forma amounts indicated
below.

The fair value of each option or warrant grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions used for grants during the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: dividend yield of 0.00%; expected volatility of
77.00%, expected life of 10 years and range of risk free interest rate of 4.00% in 2005; dividend
yield of 0.00%; expected volatility of 98.15% to 101.00%, expected life of 5 years and range of
risk free interest rate from 3.376% to 4.00% in 2004; dividend yield of 0.00%; expected volatility
of 97.76% to 100.97%, expected life of 9 years and range of risk free interest rate of 1.00% to
2.00% in 2003.

ESTIMATES UTILIZED IN THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date
of the financial statements and the reported amounts of expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

F-13

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS): 

Comprehensive income (loss) consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting
shareholders  equity that, under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America, are excluded from net income (loss). Such items consist of unrealized gains and losses on
marketable equity investments.

PREFERRED STOCK 

In 1998, Med-Design issued 300,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that were
subsequently converted to common stock. In accordance with the terms of the Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock, Med-Design effected filings with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware
to reduce the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock by 300,000 shares, to 4,700,000
shares of preferred stock, $0.01 per value.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS: 

In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard ( SFAS ) No. 151,  Inventory Costs,  ( SFAS 151 ). SFAS 151 amends
Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43 ( ARB 43 ), Chapter 4 to clarify the accounting for abnormal
amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage SFAS 151
is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005.
Med-Design s adoption of SFAS 151 and is not expected to have a material effect on the Company s
results of operations or consolidated financial position.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R,  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123R ). SFAS 123R
establishes that employee services received in exchange for share-based payment result in a cost
that should be recognized in the income statement as an expense when the services are consumed by
the enterprise. It further establishes that those expenses be measured at fair value determined as
of the grant date. The Company previously applied Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No.
25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB 25 ) and FASB Interpretation No. 44,
 Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation  in accounting for its stock
plans. The Company previously adopted the disclosure only provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting
for Stock Based Compensation.  SFAS 123R is effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 123R is expected to increase stock-based compensation expense. The
Company is currently assessing the impact of the accounting standard on the Company s results of
operations and financial position.

We have adopted this standard effective January 1, 2006 and elected the modified-prospective
transition method. Under the modified prospective transition method, awards that are granted,
modified, repurchased or cancelled after the date of adoption should be measured and accounted for
in accordance with SFAS No. 123, except that stock option expense for unvested options must be
recognized in the statement of operations.

F-14

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154  Accounting Changes and Error Correction  ( SFAS
154 ). SFAS 154 establishes new standards on accounting for changes in accounting principles.
Pursuant to the new rules, all such changes must be accounted for by retrospective application to
the financial statement of prior periods unless it is impractical to do so. SFAS 154 replaces APB
Opinion No. 20 and SFAS 3, though it carries forward the guidance in those pronouncements with
respect to accounting for changes in estimates, changes in the reporting entity, and the correction
of errors. SFAS 154 is effective for the accounting changes and error corrections made in fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2005, with early adoption permitted after May 2005. The
adoption of SFAS 154 is not expected to have a material effect on the Company s financial condition
or results of operation.

F-15

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

3. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES

Gross unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities as of December 31, 2005 and 2004
are as follows:

Gross unrealized losses on U.S. government and agency securities had been in a continuous loss
position for less than 12 months as of December 31, 2005 and 2004.

Net unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities consists of the following:

Investment income for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $478,545, $591,886
and $526,935 respectively.

F-16

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

3. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES

In accordance with FSAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities,  and consistent with the Company s accounting policy for marketable equity securities,
in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company determined that the decline in the fair value of
its investment in Enpath Medical Inc. stock (which was received as part of a development and
licensing agreement in 2001) was other than temporary. Accordingly, the Company established a new
basis of $448,078 for the portion of the investment that was purchased for more than $8.45 per
share, equivalent to its fair market value at December 31, 2002. As a result, the Company realized
a loss of $331,419. During 2003, Med-Design liquidated all but 132 shares of its remaining holdings
in Enpath Medical Inc. common stock at a gain of $108,821.

During 2004, Med-Design liquidated its remaining holdings in Enpath Medical Inc. common stock at a
gain of $631. The Company realized losses totaling $338,150 from sales of fixed income securities
throughout 2004. The Company sold these fixed income securities, which yielded lower rates of
interest, to avoid further deterioration of its portfolio in a rising interest market.

4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Balances of major classes of assets and accumulated depreciation and amortization at December
31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:

Depreciation and amortization expense was $123,000, $234,585, and $236,274 for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

F-17

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

5. INVESTMENT IN ACQUIRED LICENSE RIGHTS 

ACQUISITION OF A BUSINESS

On April 1, 2004, the Company acquired the assets of the Safety Huber Needle business of
Luther Needlesafe Products, Inc. The Company paid $5.6 million in cash, $250,000 in the Company s
common stock (67,094 shares valued at $3.73 per share, which was the average of the reported
closing prices of the Company s common stock on the Nasdaq National Market for the 10 trading days
preceding the date of the acquisition) and $750,000 to be paid in cash or, at the Company s option,
in the Company s common stock at $250,000 each April 1 over the next three years. The three-year
payment arrangement was valued at its discounted present value of $680,812. The purchase price of
the acquired business was thus $6,832,052, inclusive of costs related to the acquisition of
$301,240. Results of operations for the Safety Huber Needle business are included in the Company s
income statement effective April 1, 2004. The Low Profile Safety Huber, the version of the Safety
Huber Needle product, marketed by the Company and used for the delivery of chemotherapeutic agents,
was launched in the U.S. in October 2003. This acquisition expands the Company s safety product
line, provides an additional contract manufacturing capability and an established distribution
channel for the Company s portfolio products. Based on research conducted on the Company s behalf,
the market for this product is expanding and the Company believes that through its internal sales
efforts, it could secure a reasonable percentage of the market. See also Note 8.

SAFETY HUBER NEEDLE BUSINESS TRANSACTION SUMMARY 

The acquired license rights are being amortized over the remaining patent life of
approximately 16 years. The life of the patent is also the life of the sublicense
agreement. Goodwill is expected to be a non-taxable deduction. (See footnote 2 Goodwill)

F-18

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

The following unaudited pro forma information presents the combined results of operations of the
Company and the Safety Huber Needle business for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 as if
the acquisition had occurred on January 1 of each year and January 1, 2004.

PRO FORMA STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 

(a) Net loss was adjusted for pro forma purposes to recognize the effect of the difference
between historical costs of the business and the costs attributable to the recorded values of
assets and liabilities following the acquisition and bonuses, interest and shares issued to effect
the acquisition. Those net loss decreases (increases) were:

(1) Represents bonuses to Luther executives resulting from the disposition of the assets related to
the Low Profile Huber Needle business.

(2) Represents interest paid by Luther related to the Huber Needle.

F-19

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

PRO FORMA STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 

(a) Net loss was adjusted for pro forma purposes to recognize the effect of the difference
between historical costs of the business and the costs attributable to the recorded values of
assets and liabilities following the acquisition and interest and shares issued to effect the
acquisition. Those net loss (increases) decreases were:

(1) Represents interest paid by Luther related to the Huber Needle.

F-20

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

6. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

At December 31, 2005, Med-Design had a revolving line of credit under which the Company may borrow
up to $3,000,000 with Wells Fargo Bank. The facility is collateralized by the Company s
investments held at Wells Fargo Bank. Any borrowing would bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.75%. There
are no financial covenants. The facility expires on July 31, 2006 and there is no assurance that
the Company will be successful in negotiating a continuation of the availability of the line of
credit or terms that will be available to the Company. There are no amounts outstanding under the
agreement.

7. CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS

The Company entered into certain capital lease obligations with interest at 12.66% per annum and
monthly payments of $243. The capital lease obligations were satisfied in 2004.

8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Med-Design leases a building, office space, and office equipment under non-cancelable operating
leases that expire at various times through 2008.

Total rent expense under all operating leases for years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was
$195,989, $197,260 and $182,131, respectively.

The aggregate amount of minimum future lease payments at December 31, 2005, which have remaining
non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year is as follows:

F-21

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)

The Company maintains employment agreements with one officer and the Director of Operations.
The agreements range from a period of one to two years. Although there are conditions under which
these agreements can be terminated before expiration, the company, at December 31, 2005 has a
future compensation commitment of $251,724 with respect to employment agreements.

On October 14, 2004, James M. Donegan resigned as President and Chief Executive Officer of
Med-Design. Mr. Donegan and the Company executed a Separation Agreement and Release on October 14,
2004. Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Donegan is obligated to make himself available on a part-time
basis for consultation with the Company. In connection with the consulting agreement, the Company
will pay Mr. Donegan an aggregate of $497,275, of which $346,304 was paid in bi-weekly installments
from October 14, 2004 through November 15, 2005 and the remaining balance of $150,971 has or will
be paid in bi-weekly installments from November 15, 2005 to November 14, 2006. In addition, until
November 15, 2005, the Company provided medical and life coverage for Mr. Donegan and paid required
premiums. The Company will accrue these amounts as the consulting services are provided by Mr.
Donegan. The Company also accelerated vesting of options to purchase 120,000 shares of Company
common stock at an exercise price of $3.25 per share, and granted options to purchase 30,000 shares
of common stock at an exercise price of $0.92 per share. The Company also agreed to continue to
pay, through April 30, 2005, $2,500 per month to cover Mr. Donegan s rent and utilities, and agreed
to provide all benefits accrued or earned as of the date of the agreement.

In November 2005, Med-Design entered into an agreement to repay, at a discount, its
obligations under the Luther Asset Purchase Agreement and Consulting Agreement. In January 2006,
Med-Design paid $641,667. Of the payment, $442,529 was designated as payment in-full of the
long-term liability in connection with the Asset Purchase Agreement and $199,138 was designated as
a prepayment of the remaining obligations of the Consulting Agreement. The recorded amount of the
long-term liability at the time of payment was $482,284, net of discount. The Company will
recognize a gain of $39,755 on the extinguishment of the liability equal to the difference between
the book value and payment in the first quarter of 2006.

Except for the prepayment of the consulting fees, all other provisions of the Consulting
Agreement remain in effect and the Company will amortize the consulting fees over the remaining
term of the agreement.

In November 2005, Med-Design negotiated a Compensation Agreement with John F. Kelley in
connection with the performance of his consulting services. Med-Design issued 125,000 shares of
common stock of the Med-Design and cash of $67,500. Med-Design recorded this transaction during
the fourth quarter.

In November 2005 Becton Dickinson filed a lawsuit in Delaware against Med-Design. The lawsuit
involves inventorship issues concerning certain patent rights owned by Med-Design. Med-Design had
recent negotiations with counsel from Becton Dickinson and anticipates that the inventorship issues
should be resolved with a final Settlement Agreement in the near future and the lawsuit filed by
Becton Dickinson thereafter dismissed. Med-Design cannot estimate the ultimate outcome of the
lawsuit.

9. LICENSING REVENUES

Becton Dickinson is the principal licensee of Med-Design s patented product technology. Under
the December 11, 1998 license agreement, Becton Dickinson licensed certain of Med-Design s product
technology in the fields of blood collection and infusion therapy and obtained an option to license
additional product technology. The Company granted BD the exclusive worldwide rights to manufacture
and market our patented product technology.

On March 12, 2000, Med-Design signed a binding term letter with Becton Dickinson for the
syringe outlining the terms for a definitive agreement pursuant to which Becton Dickinson would
license the products subject to the option to license. Med-Design recorded as revenue $1.5 million
in the form of an up-front licensing fee upon the signing of the binding term letter. On May 11,
2000, Med-Design entered into a definitive license agreement with Becton

F-22

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

9. LICENSING REVENUES, CONTINUED

Dickinson based upon the terms of the March 12, 2000 binding term letter pursuant to which
Med-Design received, and recorded as revenue, an additional $2.5 million in up-front licensing fees
and the right to receive royalty payments based on Becton Dickinson s net sales of the products
licensed under such agreement for the remaining life of the underlying patents.

Enpath Medical Inc., formerly Medamicus, Inc., is also a licensee of Med-Design s patented
products. On September 25, 2000, Med-Design entered into a development and licensing agreement
granting Enpath a license to market and manufacture the Company s Safety Seldinger Introducer
Needle for certain venous applications. Under the terms of the agreement, Med-Design receives
royalty payments based on the net sales of the Safety Seldinger Introducer Needle by Enpath.
Royalties from this product were approximately $120,000 in 2003 and declined to approximately
$59,000 in 2005. Enpath s major customer decided to use a non-safety version of Seldinger and sales
declined significantly.

On September 7, 2001, Med-Design entered into an Addendum ( the Addendum ) to the development
and licensing agreement with Enpath Medical Inc. The Addendum grants Enpath Medical Inc. an
exclusive license to manufacture and market the Company s Safety Seldinger Introducer Needle in the
arterial access market. Under the terms of the Addendum, Med-Design received an initial payment of
$2,000,000, $1,000,000 of which was paid in 68,027 shares of Enpath Medical Inc. common stock
valued at the closing price on the date the Company entered into the Addendum and $1,000,000 of
which was paid in cash on October 15, 2001. The Company recorded this amount as an up-front payment
of licensing fees. In addition, Med-Design is entitled to receive royalties of 20% of net sales of
the product, which royalty rate may be reduced to 17% if certain sales volumes are met. The
agreement is in effect for the remaining life of the underlying patents.

On December 29, 2004, Med-Design entered into Addendum Number Two, dated as of December 27,
2004, to the development and licensing agreement with Enpath to eliminate the minimum purchase
amount required in 2004 for Enpath to maintain exclusivity under the development and licensing
agreement.

10. BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted loss per share (EPS):

F-23

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Options, warrants and unvested stock grants to purchase 3,384,101, 3,670,076 and 3,745,827,
shares of Med-Design s common stock as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, were not
included in computing diluted earnings per share as the effect of these instruments is
anti-dilutive.

F-24

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

11. STOCK OPTION PLANS 

In 1995, Med-Design adopted a Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan ( Stock Option Plan ), which provides
for the grant of 1,000,000 (as adjusted to reflect a 2 for 1 stock split effective February 12,
1996) options to directors, officers and employees of the Company. Under the Stock Option Plan, the
exercise price of each option may not be less than the fair market value (as of the date of grant)
of the Company s common stock and the term of each option may be no more than 10 years from the
date of grant. Additionally, the Stock Option Plan provides for the annual issuance of options for
the purchase of 10,000 shares of common stock to each non-employee director.

Options granted to employees under the Stock Option Plan vest at a rate of 20% or 33 1/3% per year
and expire either, in five, seven or ten years from the date of grant. Certain option grants
include accelerated vesting provisions based upon achieving stock trading values or earnings per
share. Options granted to Directors expire at the end of five years and vest one year from the date
of grant.

On June 11, 2001, the board of directors adopted the 2001 Equity Compensation Plan, the  2001
Plan . The 2001 Plan provides for the grant of 1,690,000 shares to directors, officers and
employees of the Company and is administered by the Company s Compensation Committee. The
Compensation Committee has the authority to (i) determine the individuals to whom grants will be
made under the 2001 Plan; (ii) determine the type, size and terms of each grant; (iii) determine
the time when grants will be made and the duration of any applicable exercise or restriction
period; (iv) amend the terms of any previously issued grant; and (v) deal with any other matters
arising under the Plan.

As of December 31, 2005 there were 254,797 shares available for future grants which may be applied
to either plan.

On October 10, 2002, Med-Design issued a stock option to purchase 29,297 shares of common stock to
a consultant at an exercise price of $3.25 per share. The stock option vested as to 14,648 shares
per year on each of the first two anniversaries of the date of the grant, and expires on October
10, 2007 and 2009. The stock option remained unexercised at December 31, 2005.

On September 22, 2003, Med-Design issued a stock option to purchase 25,000 shares of common stock
to a consultant at an exercise price of $4.52 per share. The option vests as to one half of the
underlying shares per year on each of the first two anniversary dates and expire on September 22,
2013. The stock option remained unexercised at December 31, 2005.

On September 22, 2003, Med-Design issued a stock option to purchase 25,000 shares of common stock
to a director of the Company at an exercise price of $4.52 per share for consulting services. The
stock option vests on September 22, 2009 and expires on September 22, 2013. Vesting is accelerated
upon the completion of certain specific events related to the financial performance of the Company.
The accelerated vesting provisions of this option have not been met. The stock based compensation
expense associated with these options is amortized over the vesting period. If the provisions of
the accelerated vesting are met, the option will fully vest, and Med-Design

F-25

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, (Continued) 

will recognize the remaining unamortized stock based compensation expense in the period in which
full vesting occurs. The stock option remained unexercised at December 31, 2005.

Activity under the employee stock option plans during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 is as follows:

The following table summarizes information regarding employee stock options outstanding and
exercisable at December 31, 2005:

F-26

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, (Continued) 

12. STOCK BASED COMPENSATION

The Company entered into arrangements, subject to shareholder approval, which was obtained on
August 7, 2000, for the issuance of shares of common stock, stock options and warrants to purchase
shares of common stock to officers of the Company during 2000. Compensation expense in the amount
of $471,898, and $1,483,286 was recorded during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 based on
the difference between the exercise price of the options and warrants and the fair value of
Med-Design s common stock on August 7, 2000 of $12.63 and calculated in accordance with the
individual vesting schedules of these grants. There was no compensation expense recorded in 2005.

In August, 2000, the Company s stockholders approved an employment contract for the Company s then
Chairman and CEO, which provided for the issuance of 59,702 shares of common stock per year for the
next four years totaling 238,806 shares beginning April 1, 2000 provided he remained an officer,
director or consultant of the Company. The fair value of Med-Design common stock at the date of
shareholder approval of this grant was $12.63 per share. Compensation expense of $274,076 and
$822,228 was recorded in 2004 and 2003, respectively, with respect to these grants. There was no
compensation expense recorded in 2005.

In November 1999, the Company approved the issuance, subject to shareholder approval, which was
received in August 2000, of 200,000 shares of common stock to the then Chief Operating Officer. The
stock vested at the earlier of the date when the Company s common stock traded at $22.00 or higher
for 30 days or November 11, 2004 provided he had not resigned or been discharged for cause. On July
2, 2001, Med-Design stock maintained a market price of $22.00 or higher for 30 days, and this
agreement was revised to provide that a third of the stock vested on August 6, 2001, and the
remaining shares vested in two equal tranches on August 6, 2002 and August 6, 2003. Compensation
expense of $490,974 was recorded in 2003 with respect to these grants.

On March 15, 2002, the Company issued warrants to purchase 18,000 shares of common stock at an
exercise price of $12.50 per share to each of two consultants for consulting services rendered
through March 15, 2005 and recorded compensation expense of $20,934, $100,483, and $100,483 during
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively, based on the fair value of the
warrants, calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model.

On October 10, 2002, the company issued a stock option to purchase 29,297 shares at an exercise
price of $3.25 per share for consulting services to be rendered through October 10, 2004 and
recorded compensation expense of $8,175, and $33,084 during the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2003, respectively, based on the fair value of the stock option, calculated using the Black-Scholes
valuation model.

On September 22, 2003, the Company issued a stock option to purchase 25,000 shares of common stock
at an exercise price of $4.52 per share to a consultant for consulting services to be rendered
through September 22, 2005 and recorded compensation expense of $37,963, $50,618 and $12,654 during
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, based on the fair value of the
stock options, calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model.

On September 22, 2003, the Company issued a stock option to purchase 25,000 shares of common stock
at an exercise price of $4.52 per share to a consultant for consulting services and recorded
compensation expense of $14,462, $14,462 and $3,656 during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively, based on the fair value of the stock options, calculated using the
Black-Scholes valuation model.

F-27

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

On October 14, 2004, the Company issued a stock option to purchase 30,000 shares of common stock at
an exercise price of $0.92 per share to the Company s former Chairman and CEO and recorded
compensation expense during the year ended December 31, 2004 in the amount of $24,084 based on the
fair value of the stock options, calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model.

On October 14, 2004, the Company accelerated vesting of options to the Company s former Chairman
and CEO to purchase 120,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.25 per share. The
exercise price of the stock options exceeded the fair market value of the Company s stock at the
date of acceleration.

13. WARRANTS OUTSTANDING

As of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, warrants to purchase a total of 1,509,532, 1,565,532 and
1,700,532 shares of Med-Design s common stock were outstanding with various vesting periods and
expiration dates as outlined below.

On February 18, 2000, the Company issued a warrant to purchase 40,000 shares of common stock to a
director of Med-Design in connection with his separation from the Company. The warrant vested upon
issuance, expired on February 18, 2005 and had an exercise price per share of $16.375. The warrant
was cancelled on February 18, 2005.

F-28

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, (Continued) 

On April 25, 2000, Med-Design issued a warrant to purchase 66,000 shares of common stock at $11.875
per share to its Chief Financial Officer. The warrant vested as to 33,000 shares on November 2000
and 33,000 shares in November 2001 and expired on April 25, 2005. The warrant was exercised as to
50,000 shares on July 10, 2001. The warrant as to the remainder expired on April 25, 2005
unexercised.

On March 15, 2002, Med-Design issued two warrants to purchase 18,000 shares of common stock at
$12.50 per share to each of two consultants. The warrants vest one-third a year on each anniversary
date for the next three years and expire on December 27, 2007. The warrants remained unexercised at
December 31, 2005. The consulting service was performed and the fair value of the warrants were
amortized over three years 2003, 2004 and 2005.

On March 22, 2002, in connection with a private equity placement, Med-Design issued a warrant to
purchase 40,000 shares of common stock at $14.1375 per share to the placement agent. The warrant
vested immediately and expires on March 22, 2007. The warrant had a fair value of $319,604,
calculated using the Black Scholes model, which was recorded as issuance costs. The warrant
remained unexercised at December 31, 2005.

On August 1, 2003, in connection with a private equity placement, Med-Design issued warrants to
purchase 1,199,607 shares of common stock to investors in the private placement. The warrants
vested upon issuance and expire on August 1, 2008. The exercise price of the warrants is $6.03. The
warrants remain unexercised at December 31, 2005.

On August 1, 2003, in connection with the private equity placement, Med-Design issued warrants to
purchase 233,925 shares of common stock to the placement agent. The warrants have an exercise price
of $6.03 and vested upon issuance. The warrants expire on August 1, 2008. The warrants had a fair
value of $1,055,821, calculated using the Black Scholes model, which was recorded as issuance
costs. The warrants remained unexercised at December 31, 2005.

14. DEFINED CONTRIBUTION BENEFIT PLAN

Med-Design sponsors a 401(k) defined contribution benefit plan. Participation in the plan is
available to substantially all employees. The Company makes an annual contribution of 3% of gross
salaries for all eligible employees. The Company contributed $39,625, $43,625 and $52,410 to the
plan in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

F-29

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, (Continued) 

15. INCOME TAXES

The following is a summary of the components of income taxes from operations:

The deferred income tax assets and liabilities recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:

F-30

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, (Continued) 

15. INCOME TAXES

At December 31, 2005, the Company had a federal net operating loss carry forward of approximately
$62 million which will expire in the years 2011 through 2023. At December 31, 2005, the Company had
a net operating loss for state purposes of approximately $60 million, which begins expiring in 2006
and will continue to expire through 2012.

Included in the net operating loss carry forward are certain option and warrant exercises that
total approximately $14 million gross at December 31, 2005. However, these benefits were deferred
because the Company is in a net operating loss position. Such benefits will be credited to
additional paid-in capital in the year in which the benefits are realized.

In addition, the Company experienced an ownership change in accordance with Internal Revenue Code
Section 382 in 1997. Losses incurred through January 23, 1997 amounting to $4.9 million are
generally limited in their utilization to $1.7 million per year. It is possible that recent
ownership changes may result in further limitations under Section 382.

The Company has unused research and development tax credits in the amount of $0.6 million which
will expire in the years 2011 through 2023.

A reconciliation of the Federal statutory rate (34%) to the effective tax rate is as follows:

F-31

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, (Continued) 

16. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 

During 2005, 2004, and 2003, the Company paid $18,192, $18,335, and $22,717, respectively, for
legal services to a firm, of which a partner is a director, officer, and stockholder of Med-Design.

On April 15, 2002, pursuant to a Note and Pledge Agreement, the Company loaned $250,000 to Michael
W. Simpson, the Company s former Chief Operating Officer, which was collateralized by 66,666 shares
of Med-Design s common stock issued to Mr. Simpson on August 6, 2003. The Note was repayable on the
earlier of (i) April 15, 2004, (ii) the date on which Mr. Simpson ceased to be an employee,
consultant or director of Med-Design, (iii) the date on which Med-Design provided notice to Mr.
Simpson that the closing price of the common stock had been $30.00 or higher for 20 consecutive
days as reported on the Nasdaq National Market, or (iv) the date on which Mr. Simpson sold or
transferred the pledged securities. The Note accrued interest at 16% per year until the issuance of
the pledged securities to Mr. Simpson on August 6, 2003, as of which time the Note accrued interest
at the prime lending rate plus 1%.

On April 25, 2003, the Company entered into a new employment agreement with Mr. Simpson following
his resignation as director and officer of the Company as of March 13, 2003. The initial term of
the agreement was from March 20, 2003 through July 15, 2003. Under the agreement, Mr. Simpson was
to receive total compensation of $45,538 for the initial period of the agreement. Total
compensation for the initial period was increased on June 10, 2003 by $14,230 for a total of
$60,480. In addition, the new employment agreement provided for the deferral, until termination of
the agreement, of the $46,250 in severance that Mr. Simpson was entitled to under his previous
employment agreement. On July 14, 2003, the Company extended the agreement with Mr. Simpson to
August 15, 2003. Following termination of the agreement on August 15, 2003, the Company began
making payments to Mr. Simpson of the severance amounts (which payments were required to be made in
equal monthly installments through December 15, 2003).

On October 23, 2003, the Company entered into an agreement with Mr. Simpson regarding the repayment
of the $250,000 Note issued on April 15, 2002 and all accrued interest there under. Under the terms
of this agreement, the Company cancelled the Note issued on April 15, 2002 (the  Old Note ) and
issued a new note (the  New Note ) to Mr. Simpson evidencing the $250,000 outstanding principal
amount. The New Note was effective as of November 15, 2003, matures on November 15, 2006 and
accrues interest at 5% per year. The New Note requires monthly payments to the Company of $1,500
until maturity, with the remainder of the then outstanding principal and interest due November 15,
2006, and is collateralized by a mortgage on real property owned by Mr. Simpson. Pursuant to the
terms of the agreement, the Company released to Mr. Simpson a stock certificate evidencing the
66,666 shares of Med-Design common stock and Mr. Simpson was obligated to pay the Company the
accrued interest of $28,925 on the Old Note within 15 working days of his receipt of a signed copy
of the agreement, a stock certificate evidencing the 66,666 shares of Med-Design common stock, a
legal opinion on the transferability of such shares and a prospectus pursuant to which the shares
may be sold.

On September 9, 2003, the Company filed a registration statement covering the resale of the shares
of its common stock by a number of its security holders. Such registration statement includes the
66,666 shares of Med-Design common stock held by Mr. Simpson.

The agreement also provides for the payment in full of the New Note upon the sale of the real
property collateralizing the New Note. In addition, if Mr. Simpson sells any of his 66,666 shares
of Med-Design common stock, a percentage of the proceeds of such sale, such percentage to be agreed
upon at the time of the sale by the parties, will be paid to the Company to reduce the balance on
the New Note. Under the agreement, the Company also agreed to consider in its sole discretion
paying Mr. Simpson a cash bonus, in such amount that the Company may determine in its sole
discretion, for any Company project in which Mr. Simpson was engaged during his employment with the
Company if such project had resulted in a revenue-producing event for the Company, provided that
such event had occured by August 15, 2004.

F-32

Table of Contents   

THE MED-DESIGN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, (Continued) 

On February 26, 2004, Mr. Simpson advised the Company that he is unable to fulfill his obligations
under the New Note. The Company therefore recorded a charge at December 31, 2003 of $250,000 plus
accrued interest of $28,925 as a bad debt expense. On October 29, 2004, the Company was advised
that Mr. Simpson had filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy.

Mr. Simpson was issued a credit card in the Company s name during his tenure as an executive
officer of the Company. Mr. Simpson was authorized to use the credit card for expenses incurred in
connection with the performance of his duties as an executive officer of the Company. When Mr.
Simpson resigned, a balance of approximately $14,000 remained on the credit card that did not
relate to Company duties which Mr. Simpson refused. The Company received notice of this claim and
has settled with the credit card company.

17. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The following methods and assumptions were considered by Med-Design in determining its fair value
disclosures for financial instruments:

Cash and cash equivalents: The carrying amount reported in the balance sheet approximates fair
value.

Marketable securities: Available-for-sale securities consist of corporate bonds, common stock and
commercial paper. Fair value is based on quoted market prices.

The carrying value of long term payable is reported at discounted fair value based on current
market interest rates.

19. QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

Quarterly computations of loss per share amounts are made independently. Therefore, the sum of
the per share amounts for the quarter may not agree with the per share amounts for the year.

F-33

Table of Contents   

(a) 
       
     In the first quarter of 2005, the Company assessed the position of the 1Shot Safety
Dental Syringe in the marketplace and the Company s relationship with the exclusive
distributor of the product, Sultan Chemist. As a result of the Company s assessment the
Company determined to discontinue production of the product and exit the business. This
decision resulted in the write-off of equipment of $464,397, which the Company recorded
during the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and has been adjusted to reclassify the write-off of
the 1Shot Safety Syringe fixed assets from other income (expense) to operating expense. 

20. MERGER TRANSACTION

On November 22, 2005, Med-Design announced plans to merge with a subsidiary of Specialized
Healthcare Products International, Inc. (SHPI). Under the merger agreement, stockholders of
Med-Design will collectively receive equity of SHPI equal to approximately 33% of the outstanding
shares of the combined company following the merger.

The Board of Directors of both companies have unanimously approved the merger agreement and
will recommend that their stockholders vote in favor of the transaction. The merger is anticipated
to close in the second quarter 2006, subject to the approval of the stockholder of each company and
customary closing conditions.

F-34

<EX-23.1>
 2
 w19329exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF BDO SEIDMAN, LLP

exv23w1 

EXHIBIT 23.1 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Med-Design Corporation 
Ventura, California

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Forms S-3
(Registration Nos. 333-05927, 333-22201, 333-31858, 333-65472, 333-86432, 333-99161, 333-108759 and
333-115511) and S-8 (Registration Nos. 333-75957, 333-90933, 333-49194 and 333-99163) of The
Med-Design Corporation of our report dated March 29, 2006 relating to the consolidated financial
statements.

/s/ BDO Seidman, LLP

Los Angeles, California

March 29, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 3
 w19329exv23w2.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

exv23w2 

EXHIBIT 23.2 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Med-Design Corporation

Ventura, California

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-3
(Registration Nos. 333-05927, 333-22201, 333-31858, 333-65472, 333-86432, 333-99161, 333-108759 and
333-115511) and S-8 (Registration Nos. 333-75957, 333-90933, 333-49194 and 333-99163) of The
Med-Design Corporation of our report dated March 5, 2004 relating to the consolidated financial
statements for the year ended December 31, 2003, which appears in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP

Los Angeles, California 
March 31, 2006

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 w19329exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

I, David R. Dowsett, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Med-Design Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) Designed with such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 29, 2006

DAVID R. DOWSETT 

David R. Dowsett, Acting Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 w19329exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

I, Lawrence D. Ellis, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Med-Design Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) Designed with such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 29, 2006

LAWRENCE D. ELLIS 

Lawrence D. Ellis, Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 w19329exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REQUIRED BY RULE 15D-14(B)

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

The Med-Design Corporation 

Certification by the Acting, Chief Executive Officer 
Relating to a Periodic Report Containing Financial Statements 

I, David R. Dowsett, Acting Chief Executive Officer of The Med-Design Corporation, a Delaware
corporation (the  Company ), hereby certify that, to my knowledge:

(1) The Company s periodic report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2005 (the
 Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended; and

(2) The information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

*  *  *

DAVID R. DOWSETT            
David R. Dowsett 
Acting Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 29, 2006

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 7
 w19329exv32w2.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REQUIRED BY RULE 15D-14(B)

exv32w2 

EXHIBIT 32.2 

The Med-Design Corporation 

Certification by the Chief Financial Officer 
Relating to a Periodic Report Containing Financial Statements 

I, Lawrence D. Ellis, Chief Financial Officer of The Med-Design Corporation, a Delaware
corporation (the  Company ), hereby certify that, to my knowledge:

(1) The Company s periodic report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2005 (the
 Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended; and

(2) The information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

*  
*   *

LAWRENCE D. ELLIS            
Lawrence D. Ellis 
Chief Financial Officer

Date: March 29, 2006

</EX-32.2>

